

1 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: State Agency Lax on Overseas Spending, Report Says

BYLINE: By THOMAS KAPLAN

 BODY:
New York's economic development agency has not properly kept tabs on the representatives that it hires to promote the state's businesses overseas, according to a new audit by the office of the state comptroller, Thomas P. DiNapoli.
The review focused on a division of the agency, Empire State Development. The division was most recently overseen by James P. Rubin, a former State Department official who was a colleague of Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo's in the Clinton administration. 
The audit, which will be released on Monday, found that Empire State Development had spent $2.7 million on foreign offices in the 2011 and 2012 fiscal years without paying adequate attention to whether the spending was benefiting New York businesses.
Mr. DiNapoli said in a statement that ''improvements and greater consistency in monitoring how taxpayers' dollars are spent is needed'' at Empire State Development.
''New York can profit from expanding business opportunities in foreign countries, but when budgets are tight, every dollar spent on these efforts has to pack an economic punch,'' he said.
New York State has representatives in the United Kingdom, Israel and South Africa, with the goal of increasing exports from New York businesses and attracting foreign direct investment in them. The state also had representatives in Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Mexico and Turkey, but the Cuomo administration eliminated those offices during a period of budget reductions.
The review by Mr. DiNapoli's office found that officials at Empire State Development could not produce documentation explaining how or why they selected the international markets in which to invest. They also did not carefully monitor the performance of the representatives to see whether they were meeting the obligations of their contracts, according to the audit.
For instance, in one case, the state's office in Toronto had projected export sales of $1.2 million, but reported only $175,000 in actual sales. In another case, the state's office in Turkey reported that it did not generate a single dollar from new exports. The audit described the state's monitoring of its foreign offices as ''informal and ad hoc at best.''
The activity covered by the audit spanned the period from April 2010, nine months before Governor Cuomo took office, until last October. Mr. Rubin joined the Cuomo administration in November 2011, shortly after a brief, turbulent stint as an editor of Bloomberg News's opinion section; he departed in May to move to London with his wife, the television journalist Christiane Amanpour. Empire State Development said he did not manage the international programs on a day-to-day basis, but advised the Cuomo administration on how they could be improved.
The agency, which has been a favored ground for patronage appointments by Mr. Cuomo, told the comptroller's office that before the audit, it had started to put in place a new monitoring system for the state's representatives abroad.
The audit also found that the agency had ''made significant improvements'' in its handling of payments to foreign representatives, an area where the comptroller's office had previously identified problems.
In a written response to a draft of the review, the agency also suggested the comptroller's office did not appreciate the difficulty of its work.
Ed Hamilton, the senior deputy commissioner for finance and administration, wrote that ''international economic and political factors'' affected performance of the state's representatives regardless of how closely they were monitored. He added that ''complex cultural matters,'' like South Africa having 11 official languages, complicated their work.
Mr. Hamilton also said the comptroller's office did not adequately recognize its successes. He cited a Long Island manufacturer whose sales in the United Kingdom were said to have doubled thanks to the help of Empire State Development and the state's office in London, and a paint manufacturer in Israel that decided to open three showrooms in Manhattan and to develop plans for a paint-mixing facility in Long Island City, Queens.
Cuomo administration officials said they inherited a dysfunctional international program and were in the process of redesigning it, including adding industry experts who would focus on increasing exports in the agriculture, manufacturing and high-tech sectors.
A spokeswoman for Mr. Cuomo, Melissa DeRosa, said the administration had ''identified ESD International Division's weaknesses'' and ''has begun a dramatic overhaul to help New York compete across the globe."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); AUDITS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); JOURNALISM (67%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (79%); CHRISTIANE AMANPOUR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); ONTARIO, CANADA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (92%); TURKEY (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ISRAEL (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



2 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Journalism, Even When It's Tilted

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail:carr@nytimes.com; Twitter: @carr2n

 BODY:
In a refracted media world where information comes from everywhere, the line between two ''isms'' -- journalism and activism -- is becoming difficult to discern. As American news media have pulled back from international coverage, nongovernmental organizations have filled in the gaps with on-the-scene reports and Web sites. State houses have lost reporters who used to provide accountability, so citizens have turned to digital enterprises, some of which have partisan agendas.
The question of who is a journalist and who is an activist and whether they can be one and the same continues to roar along, most recently in the instance of Glenn Greenwald's reporting for The Guardian on the secrets revealed by Edward J. Snowden.
Sometimes, a writer's motives or leanings emerge between the lines over time, but you need only to read a few sentences of Mr. Greenwald's blog to know exactly where he stands. Mr. Greenwald is an activist who is deeply suspicious of government and the national security apparatus, and he is a zealous defender of privacy and civil rights. 
He is also a journalist.
Taxonomy is important, partly because when it comes to divulging national secrets, the law grants journalists special protections that are afforded to no one else. To exclude some writers from the profession is to leave them naked before a government that is deeply unhappy that its secret business is on wide display.
In that context, ''activist'' has become a code word for someone who is driven by an agenda beyond seeking information on the public's behalf. I found out as much last week when an article I wrote with a colleague about WikiLeaks called Alexa O'Brien an ''activist.''
Ms. O'Brien is certainly that. She played a crucial role in the digital outreach of Occupy Wall Street, was involved with the U.S. Day of Rage rally and began covering the Bradley Manning trial partly to protest the lack of information and transparency in the case.
But she also describes herself as an independent journalist, and for that matter, so have I in a previous column. She asked for (and received) a correction in The New York Times, pointing out that I had cited her work in my column.
''You are reading my journalistic work, using my journalistic work, capitalizing off my journalistic work, and linking to my journalistic work about the largest criminal investigation ever into a publisher and its source,'' she wrote from Fort Meade, Md., where she has been comprehensively transcribing the Manning trial.
In other words, if I believed she was executing a political agenda rather than a journalistic one, why was I referencing her work?
The notion of journalist as political and ideological eunuch seems silly, even to some who call themselves journalists.
''Truth is not the hole in the middle of the doughnut, it is on the doughnut somewhere,'' a veteran reporter whom I worked with at an alternative weekly in Minneapolis once told me. What he meant was that articles that strive only to be in the middle -- moving from one hand to the other in an effort to be nicely balanced -- end up going nowhere. I was just out of journalism school, brimming with freshly taught tenets of fairness and objectivity, and already those values were in question.
Still, the fight between objectivity and subjectivity is a fairly modern one. In the 1800s, journalism was underwritten by powerful people, the government or political parties. It was only when an economic incentive for information absent a political agenda took hold that an independent press also emerged.
It makes sense that as the financial rewards for traditional journalism have eroded, advocacy journalism has gained new traction. It is now up to the consumer to assemble a news diet of his or her choice, adding in news that is produced by people who have skin in the game.
''We are beginning to realize that journalists come in a variety of shapes and sizes and come with a variety of commitments,'' said Jay Rosen, a journalism professor at New York University. ''It isn't that the fact that someone is an activist is irrelevant, it's just that it does not necessarily mean they are the opposite of a journalist.''
In the instance of Mr. Snowden and his leaks, something of a hybrid model for the big story arose. Mr. Snowden was said to have chosen Mr. Greenwald as a conduit for a leak because he felt they shared values. The matching ideologies of source and journalist made the story happen in the first place. Then The Guardian's global presence and historically liberal audience provided a sturdy platform, and its newsroom offered editorial muscle.
Janine Gibson, the editor in chief of The Guardian's Web site in the United States, oversaw the coverage. She said that a lot has changed in the new editorial landscape, but that articles still have to hold up under intense scrutiny.
''I think to call Glenn an activist is a red herring, an attempt to put him in a box and minimize what he does,'' she said. ''He has a point of view, but he is meticulous and forensic in his approach and is extremely careful about getting it right.''
There are people in government and in the news media who believe that Mr. Greenwald is not a journalist, and should be prosecuted for his role in publishing national secrets.
''It is not a matter of being an activist or a journalist; it's a false dichotomy,'' Mr. Greenwald said in a phone call from Brazil, where he lives. ''It is a matter of being honest or dishonest. All activists are not journalists, but all real journalists are activists. Journalism has a value, a purpose -- to serve as a check on power.''
And as a journalist and activist, Mr. Greenwald could not resist a jab. ''I have seen all sorts of so-called objective journalists who have all kinds of assumptions in every sentence they write,'' he said. ''Rather than serve as an adversary of government, they want to bolster the credibility of those in power. That is a classic case of a certain kind of activism.''
I take his point, with a few caveats. Journalists are responsible for following the truth wherever it may guide them. Both Ms. Gibson and Mr. Greenwald said that they would quickly follow the Snowden story even if it led to something that questioned his motives or diminished his credibility. But I do think that activism -- which is admittedly accompanied by the kind of determination that can prompt discovery -- can also impair vision. If an agenda is in play and momentum is at work, cracks may go unexplored.
That is not to say that Mr. Greenwald's work is suspect, only that the tendentiousness of ideology creates its own narrative. He has been everywhere on television taking on his critics, which seems more like a campaign than a discussion of the story he covered.
Activists can and often do reveal the truth, but the primary objective remains winning the argument. That includes the argument about whether a reporter has to be politically and ideologically neutral to practice journalism.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Glenn Greenwald, whose work for The Guardian has raised the question of who is a journalist. (PHOTOGRAPH BY APPLE DAILY, VIA REUTERS) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); WIKILEAKS CONTROVERSIES (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (62%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (50%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



3 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Tired of Silicon Valley? Try Motor City

BYLINE: By JACLYN TROP; Bill Vlasic contributed reporting from Detroit.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- After graduating from the University of Michigan in 1998, Brian Mulloy followed the path of many of his classmates, fleeing his home state for a job in a bustling city. But after 10 years of working in technology start-ups in San Francisco, he has returned as founder of a company in Detroit's budding technology sector.
Mr. Mulloy is part of a group of workers that Detroit is suddenly hungry for -- software developers and information technology specialists who can create applications for the next generation of connected vehicles.
''You're going to see developers set up shop in Detroit because they're going to follow the money,'' Mr. Mulloy said, ''and there will be lots of money.'' 
Already, the money is flowing.
General Motors, newly flush with cash after emerging from bankruptcy, is on a hiring binge, quadrupling its information technology staff and recruiting software developers to create a spate of apps for its 2014 model-year vehicles. While the hiring is taking place across the country, many of the new recruits will be working out of the Detroit area.
The Ford Motor Company plans to fill 300 positions in information technology this year, said Laura Kurtz, Ford's manager of United States recruiting. The Chrysler Group, which declined to specify its plans, said it would hire more entry-level workers and was focused on attracting a highly skilled work force.
For Detroit, the hiring is a rare bright spot in a city teetering on the edge of bankruptcy. For the state over all, the Michigan Department of Labor projects that job growth in software developers for applications is expected to grow 23.5 percent from 2010; for software developers for systems software, 36.9 percent, the highest of any technical job classification. Michigan's overall average for selected technical occupations is 8.5 percent growth.
The demand for in-vehicle applications is a ''substantial job generator with high-end pay,'' said Donald R. Grimes, an economic researcher at the University of Michigan.
Beyond the three Detroit automakers, the push for the connected car is helping support homegrown technology businesses like Mr. Mulloy's as well.
Detroit Labs, founded two years ago to create smartphone apps, is shifting to work with automakers to build in-vehicle apps. The company has grown tenfold since 2011, to 40 people, and aims for 60 workers by the end of the year.
''If you go to the coasts, you are one of thousands,'' said Paul Glomski, one of its founders. ''In Detroit, you have the opportunity to make an impact. It's for real.''
Mr. Mulloy's company, Apigee Labs, provides systems that help companies build applications for media ranging from phones and vehicles to fitness equipment and power grids. He chose to put Apigee in Detroit's fledgling downtown technology hub, where he shares space with Detroit Labs, which uses Apigee's products to build apps.
So far, the jobs are primarily attracting people who already live in the area and people like Mr. Mulloy, natives of Michigan who are drawn back to the area not only for the work but also for the lower cost of living. The next challenge will be to recruit developers without ties to Detroit, and that could be a tall order.
''In general,'' Mr. Grimes said, ''Michigan is not perceived as the hippest place for young technology geeks.''
Automakers are stressing the career opportunity: even though cars have had computer-controlled systems for years, software innovation is in its early stages and there will be a chance for a worker to stand out. G.M.'s 2014 models, for example, will be the first to include in-car apps.
''They view it as a new space to be creative,'' said Nick Pudar, director of G.M.'s new developer ecosystems program, which was created to connect the automaker with developers in other cities. ''The vehicles are becoming this new channel of innovation.''
Mr. Pudar travels to software developer hubs around the country -- San Francisco, New York, Boston, Denver, Chicago and Austin, Tex., among them -- to persuade developers to turn from developing phone apps to working on automotive apps.
Since he is looking for third-party developers who can work remotely, he is not facing the challenge of recruiting these workers to Detroit. Instead, he is finding that the automotive sector represents an attractive field to these developers.
''This is a newfound field full of features and functionality that developers are intrigued by,'' Mr. Pudar said.
The new technology coming to cars promises to radically change the driver's experience. For example, new apps will allow drivers to interact with their vehicles both from inside and remotely. Drivers can also use apps to monitor fuel efficiency or track mileage for business expenses. Younger drivers can benefit from driving instructor apps that allow them to log their hours for daytime and nighttime driving to produce a summary report.
Beyond apps, cars are increasingly relying on computers and sensors, from the moment a key fob sends signals to the ignition. Multiple computers support each of a vehicle's systems, including adaptive cruise control, which adjusts the speed of a car to the pace of traffic, and crash avoidance systems, which detect trouble and slow the car down. Although computerized systems have been in cars for years, many of these newer technologies are just being introduced.
''This whole West Coast thing and how great they are -- we're doing some pretty cool stuff here,'' said Rob Meyers, a Michigan native who came to G.M. from the West Coast, where he built apps for Amazon. ''You're in the last frontier when it comes to the vehicle.''
No automaker is being more aggressive than G.M., whose chairman and chief executive, Daniel F. Akerson, has made information technology a centerpiece of the company's turnaround from bankruptcy.
Over the next three to five years, G.M. plans to hire 4,400 workers for its information technology centers in the Detroit suburb of Warren as well as in Austin; Roswell, Ga.; and Chandler, Ariz. It will be the fastest-growing employee group within the nation's largest automaker, and about 1,200 of those employees will be recent college graduates, said a spokeswoman, Juli Huston-Rough.
The hiring is part of Mr. Akerson's strategy to reduce sharply G.M.'s reliance on outside technology. The strategy carries risk, though, because G.M. must prove it can manage its own information more effectively than an outside firm can.
Steve Schwinke, G.M.'s director of applications and application ecosystem development, says that he plans on doubling his team of in-house app developers to 100 by the end of the year and that he counts the hiring of Mr. Meyers from Amazon and another developer from gotomeeting.com in Los Angeles as major coups. He is making space for the increase this summer by knocking down cubicle walls to create an open space for Nerf ball fights and Red Bull shots on the 22nd floor of G.M.'s Renaissance Center headquarters.
''A lot of people are really interested in the space because it's new,'' Mr. Schwinke said. ''It's a new screen.''
To find those workers, G.M. and other automakers will be competing for talent against industries like defense and health care and against technology firms themselves. That means appealing to young workers' preferences for work-life integration, Ms. Kurtz of Ford said, including options for telecommuting and flexible work hours. ''We recognize the generation of people we're hiring may not have the traditional 9-to-5 mind-set that baby boomers have,'' she said.
In downtown Detroit, the action has pulled several developers from both coasts, including Bill Camp, who worked in San Francisco for six years in Web development but returned home to Michigan in January to join Detroit Labs, where he is vice president for business development. Like Google, Detroit Labs allows employees to spend 20 percent of their time on their own projects, and many innovations, he said, have stemmed from that.
''I wouldn't have gone back if I didn't sense a change in what's happening in Detroit,'' Mr. Camp said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ad hoc work space at Detroit Labs, a software developer that has grown rapidly as it shifts its focus to meet skyrocketing demand for automotive apps. (B1)
 Dan Ward, foreground, a founder of Detroit Labs, sketches a navigation system for an application with Claud Badau, an intern. The company has gone from four to 40 employees since 2011. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN MCGEE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (89%); LABOR FORCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (91%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



4 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: A Gay Pride March With Added Spring in Its Step

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP; Rebecca White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Marriage, of course, was the word of the day this year.
But marriage was certainly not what the Gay Liberation Front was fighting for in 1970 when its members stepped out -- at no small personal peril -- to join New York's first march commemorating the Stonewall uprising and celebrating gay pride.
''We attacked marriage as a failed, heterosexual, bourgeois institution,'' said Allen Young of Royalston, Mass., who turned 72 on Sunday, when he and 13 other alumni of the front stepped out once more -- this time as veterans -- into the line of march. 
Some were graying. Some were stooped. Drugs were discussed briefly in the marshaling area on East 40th Street; specifically, Flomax. Some are married now. Some conceded wistfully that they may never be.
And at least one was not so wistful. ''Personally, I prefer to be an outlaw,'' said Michela Griffo, 63, who lives in the Flatiron district of Manhattan.
But the group seemed as energized as any other participants by the fact that they were marching only four days after the Supreme Court ruled that married same-sex couples were entitled to federal benefits, and cleared the way for same-sex marriages to be performed again in California. Perry Brass, 65, of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, said he would be marrying his partner, Hugh Young, in two weeks. They have been together 32 years.
The rulings lent an especially celebratory air to an event that has never been known for restraint. Crowd estimates for any parade of this magnitude are unreliable. And 200,000 people can easily feel like 300,000, if they are packed together on a day as steamy as Sunday was.
Alan Reiff, co-chairman of Heritage of Pride, which organizes the event, said, ''This is one of the most attended marches in the last five years, and it has to be attributed to the Supreme Court ruling.''
Edith Windsor, the plaintiff in the case that overturned the federal Defense of Marriage Act, or DOMA, was one of three grand marshals. ''I have marched for years,'' Ms. Windsor, 84, said before taking off in the back of a red Mustang convertible. ''I never dreamed I would be the grand marshal. I don't know how to describe it. It's really an experience for this old lady.''
Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker and a Democratic mayoral candidate, basked in Ms. Windsor's reflected glow, having won her endorsement days earlier. In May 2012, Ms. Quinn married her partner, Kim M. Catullo, who joined her at the march. ''Let the record show that DOMA was brought down by two New York City lesbians,'' Ms. Quinn said.
Ms. Windsor and Thea Clara Spyer were wed in Canada in 2007. Ms. Spyer died in 2009. Ms. Windsor had sued to establish that she was not liable for estate taxes that a surviving spouse in a heterosexual marriage would not have had to pay.
The understanding of marriage as a legal rights issue, and not as an immutable social institution, helped make it a palatable cause for most of the 30 to 40 Gay Liberation Front alumni who gathered Saturday night for their first reunion in four years.
The event, a buffet dinner at the SAGE Center in the garment district, was organized by Mark Segal, 62, the publisher of The Philadelphia Gay News. As a young advocate, he interrupted a broadcast of the ''CBS Evening News'' in 1973 by displaying a handwritten sign, ''Gays Protest CBS Prejudice,'' between the camera and Walter Cronkite in the network's broadcast center in Manhattan. Mr. Segal spoke of his old comrades fondly as ''the most loving dysfunctional family that ever existed.''
Had they agreed on one thing in the early 1970s, it would not have been marriage. ''If you were feminist, you certainly didn't think about it, because why in hell would you want to get married?'' said Nancy Myron, 69, of Rhinebeck, N.Y.
Mark Horn, 60, who now lives on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, recalled of those days: ''I was not really thinking about the state being involved in my relationships. More than anything, I wanted the state out of my bedroom. The state was regulating our sex lives, our social lives. I wanted it out.''
On reflection, however, Jim Fouratt, 72, of Greenwich Village, said the organizers of the front might not have listened closely enough in 1969 when they convened a meeting of several hundred people just days after the uprising at the Stonewall Inn on Christopher Street, where patrons had militantly refused to submit to police intimidation.
''We went around the room and asked people what they wanted,'' Mr. Fouratt said. ''Feminists and people like me wanted a revolution in our lifetime. But what came back from the room was, 'I want to hold my girlfriend's hand.' ''
Rick Landman, 61, of TriBeCa, remembered a longing even further back, expressed in Hebrew school at a Conservative synagogue in Queens. The class was discussing marriage blessings, or brachot, when Mr. Landman, then 13, said: ''I don't like girls. Is there a bracha for boys to get married?''
Martha Shelley, 69, of Portland, Ore., has already married Sylvia Allen twice -- once in Canada and again in California, during the brief period when it was legal there in 2008. They will be married again in their home state if they can.
But Ms. Shelley said she did not view marriage, or the right to serve openly in the armed forces, as the culmination of her work as an advocate for peace, racial and economic equality and abortion rights, among other causes. She currently assists homeowners who have lost their homes to foreclosure.
''Anyone who thinks people like me are going to be mollified by having the right to kill and get blown up, or the right to get married, is wrong,'' Ms. Shelley said. ''We have a huge struggle to fight.'' After a pause, she paraphrased an ethical maxim from the Talmud. ''You are not obliged to finish the work,'' she said, ''but neither are you permitted to desist in it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: On Sunday at the annual Gay Pride March in Manhattan, clockwise from top left: spectators embracing participants on Christopher Street
balloons over Eighth Street
Robert Hart, a firefighter, with his fiancé, Keith Ford
and a marcher firing up the crowd along Fifth Avenue. A slide show and video are at nytimes.com /nyregion. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mark Segal, the publisher of The Philadelphia Gay News, with Martha Shelley on Saturday at a Gay Liberation Front reunion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KIRBY SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (92%); MARRIAGE (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (79%); COHABITATION (79%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (79%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (63%); CITIES (63%); MAYORS (63%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



5 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DESIGN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Garden of Eden Amid Rubble

BYLINE: By ALICE RAWSTHORN

 BODY:
Salford, England -- If you happened to be looking for an abandoned industrial building beside a toxic patch of land in a troubled inner urban area blighted by crime, unemployment, illegal drugs, too much unhealthy food and not enough of the healthy stuff, Irwell House would have been perfect.
Vincent Walsh was searching for just such a place three years ago when he discovered it, a disused print works beside the River Irwell in Blackfriars, a deprived neighborhood in Salford, an industrial city near Manchester in north west England. The building and accompanying wasteland have since been transformed into an urban farm and research laboratory where Mr. Walsh and his collaborators are designing new ways of growing food in hostile conditions, and of distributing it to the residents of a nearby housing estate. 
Dubbed the Biospheric Project, it will open to the public Thursday as part of the 2013 Manchester International Festival, the biannual cultural event, whose program also features the British band the XX and the artists Matthew Barney and Tino Sehgal. Visitors to the Biospheric Project can explore its food-growing technologies, buy local produce from a whole-foods store it has opened in the housing estate and attend workshops on beekeeping, mushroom growing and the design of forest gardens like the one being cultivated on the cleaned-up wasteland.
''We're planning to make every inch of the building and every inch of the land productive,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''Though this is very, very early days in a 10-year project to develop an action-led research laboratory in an area of urban deprivation where it is really needed, because the access to food on this estate is so poor.''
At a time when eco-social design experiments intended to help people to live sustainably are increasingly popular among young designers, and cultural events like the Manchester festival are eager to commission work with an enduring impact on needy local communities, the Biospheric Project is unusually ambitious. All of its growing systems, both the organic ones in the forest garden and the technological versions inside the old print works, have been designed from scratch as prototypes that will be tested on site as a decade-long series of works in progress.
The project began when Mr. Walsh was planning his research for a doctorate in socio-ecological urban development at the Manchester School of Architecture at Manchester Metropolitan University. Having studied design in his first degree and worked on community projects in the U.S. and Africa, he completed a master's degree in architecture and urbanism, and decided to focus his doctorate on action-led research into the politics of food in deprived inner urban areas.
To do so, he needed to identify a suitable community and premises that he could ''rip apart,'' as he put it, to create an urban research laboratory for himself and other doctoral students. Eventually he found them in the Blackfriars estate and Irwell House, which had stood empty for years except for a car repair shop on the first floor. The building was owned by the real estate developers Urban Splash, which had no immediate plans to renovate it and agreed to rent it for 10 years on a partly philanthropic basis. A year later, Mr. Walsh was approached by the Manchester International Festival, which has since raised funding to create the research laboratory and forest garden, and helped him to establish the Biospheric Project with his co-director, Greg Keeffe, professor of architecture at Queens University, Belfast.
The project now occupies the two upper floors of the building and the roof. One floor will be used for talks and workshops during the festival, then converted for mushroom production. Mr. Walsh and his colleagues are already testing ways of growing oyster, shiitake and turkey-tail mushrooms to sell to restaurants. On another floor, they are experimenting with new forms of aquaponic technology in which fish, vegetables and herbs are cultivated using the same water. They are designing systems that require less water than existing ones.
Some 5,000 leaf crops are to be grown in a specially constructed tunnel on the roof. Popular though ''green roofs'' have become in the United States and Germany, they are rarer in the United Kingdom, where the climate is milder and, in Salford's case, damper. The researchers will test which crops fare best on drizzly English rooftops.
In the forest garden, they are experimenting with agroforestry techniques to reproduce the nutritious conditions found in the soil of high quality woodland. The trees originally growing on the land were buried and inoculated with mushrooms to enrich the soil. Every element of the garden has been designed to ensure that the crops will be as productive as possible by positioning the various herbs, vegetables and fruit trees to derive the greatest benefit from the flow of nutrients in the soil and changes in light and shade. The work on the garden has already had one positive outcome: a steep reduction in crime there and along the adjacent riverbank.
Some of the food grown by the Biospheric Project will be sold to local restaurants, but most is destined for the Whole Box business, which distributes fresh produce in boxes locally, and for the 78 Steps whole foods business that has opened in a disused shop on the housing estate. Both the 78 Steps and Whole Box also sell fruit and vegetables grown by local people, including a group from the estate that has started to cultivate a patch of land.
''This estate has lots of problems, but it is rich in other ways with a really strong community focus,'' Mr. Walsh observed. ''78 Steps will give local people healthy food on their doorstep, if they want it.''
They should also benefit from the jobs created by 78 Steps, Whole Box and future enterprises set up by the Biospheric Project. ''What we see here now will look very different in a year,'' Mr. Walsh said. ''And as our research expands and evolves over the 10 years, it will look very different again.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); FESTIVALS (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOOD SECURITY (77%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%); APICULTURE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, ENGLAND (91%) ENGLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



6 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; POLITICAL ECONOMY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: E.U. Has Unfinished Business in Fixing Finance

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

 BODY:
After seven years of crisis, much progress has been made in fixing the financial system. There was, for example, a landmark E.U. deal last week to make creditors rather than taxpayers foot the bill for busted banks. But there is a huge job still to do.
In the years running up to the crisis, the financial system ran amok on both sides of the Atlantic. Among the long litany of problems was a clutch of distorted incentives, which encouraged banks to take excessive risks by rewarding success but not punishing failure. Those heads-I-win-tails-you-lose incentives skewed the behavior of individuals, banks and the entire system. 
A crackdown on bankers' pay is starting to deal with individual risk-taking. Compensation can be recovered from those in finance whose bets ultimately turn sour. There are also plans, mainly in Europe, to pay a chunk of bankers' compensation in ''bail-in bonds'' -- which will get wiped out or turned into lowly valued shares if a bank fails. That should get bankers to pay more attention to risk.
Creditors are also being given an incentive to make sure their banks do not run excess risks. That is one reason why the E.U. deal reached last week, requiring creditor bail-ins, not government bailouts, is so important. Creditors will pay attention, too.
The work is not complete, though, because it is highly undesirable to bail in depositors, as was done in Cyprus this year. It is far better to require all banks to hold a minimum amount of capital that has been specifically earmarked for bail-in. That way, creditors will know what to expect up front.
At a systemwide level, the main one-way bet was caused by Alan Greenspan's habit (while he ran the U.S. Federal Reserve) of riding to the rescue of markets when they tumbled but doing nothing to prick emerging bubbles. There is now general agreement that central banks need to lean against the credit cycle -- not just by raising interest rates but also by requiring banks to hold more capital when credit is flowing too freely (something that is not, admittedly, a problem at present).
The old rules of the game did not just encourage one-way bets. They also incentivized banks, companies and, in some cases, individuals to take on too much debt. Here the main culprit is the widespread practice of allowing companies to deduct interest payments before calculating the profits that should be taxed. Unfortunately, hardly anybody is attempting to change that massive distortion.
Then there was a batch of problems connected with how banks were regulated: Lenders were required to hold too little capital as a cushion in case their loans went bad; they were allowed to finance themselves too much with hot money, which ran away at the first sign of trouble, leaving them high and dry; and they were allowed to be so mind-numbingly complex that nobody, not even their managers, could understand them.
Again, there has been some progress. Banks are being required to have fatter capital cushions, with the biggest ones having even fatter cushions because of the chaos they would cause if they failed. But the system for calculating how much capital is required is flawed.
Different types of loans are weighted according to riskiness, which is good. But banks have a lot of freedom to decide those risk weights themselves, which makes a mockery of the system.
Banks are also being weaned off hot money. For example, one feature of last week's E.U. deal is a requirement for banks to pay into industrywide bailout funds. The amount they pay will depend on the riskiness of their funding structures.
Moves are even afoot to cut back on banks' complexity. Here the most promising initiative is the requirement for banks to write ''living wills'' -- documents that will determine how they can be packed off to the slaughterhouse if they get into trouble without creating havoc in the financial system.
Such living wills could start a healthy dialogue between banks and their regulators over how to go about restructuring so the lenders are less complex. The initial versions of the wills will not be fit for their purpose. But if regulators are tough enough to keep sending them back until they are workable, much good can be done.
The final problems are mainly, though not exclusively, related to the euro zone. Here, inadequate progress has been made to force zombie banks to face their problems, with the result that they are suffocating the economy. Meanwhile, the financial system is too dependent on banks rather than capital markets for channeling funds from savers to investment.
There is finally a glimmer of hope that the European Central Bank will force a proper cleanup of euro zone banks in advance of taking responsibility in mid-2014 for supervising them. It is virtually criminal that this was not done in 2009 when the United States did its cleanup -- a failure that is partly responsible for the agonizingly long euro crisis. Still, better late than never.
Unfortunately, little has yet been done to build healthy European capital markets. Indeed, some ideas that have emerged from Brussels -- such as a financial transaction tax and a plan to cap fund managers' bonuses -- seem more designed to throttle markets than to encourage them.
After seven years of crisis, it is extraordinary that the job of fixing finance is not complete. But policy makers must not stop until they finish the job.
Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK FAILURES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CYPRUS (79%); EUROPE (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



7 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Hong Kong's Summer of Discontent

BYLINE: By EMILY LAU

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Hong Kong, so often trapped under the shadow of a rising China, was suddenly thrown into the spotlight when Edward J. Snowden sought refuge from the U.S. government in our city. The speculation over the 30-year-old whistleblower's fate, and Beijing's role in the matter, stirred curiosity over how this territory of seven million has fared in the 16 years since it was returned to China by Britain.
Curious outsiders will have their answer on Monday. While the city's pro-Beijing elite are celebrating the anniversary of the handover, thousands of people will take to the streets to protest their frustrations with the government, and its eroding autonomy from the mainland. 
While many Hong Kongers have some degree of pride in being part of the China success story, the territory's relationship with the mainland has become more strained in recent years. More than ever, Hong Kongers fear that their personal freedoms and the rule of law are in a precarious state, as a more confident and assertive Beijing hesitates less in interfering with the development of Hong Kong's democracy.
Tensions between local people and the hordes of mainland visitors flaunting their newfound wealth only add to the increasing sense of disillusionment. Lots of Hong Kong people, particularly the younger generation, blame mainlanders for taking lucrative jobs in the financial sector and for inflating the local property market through their purchases of second and third homes here.
Many Hong Kongers themselves fled from the mainland when the Chinese Communist Party took power in 1949. Much later, in 1989, Hong Kong watched in horror as Beijing cracked down on protesters in Tiananmen Square. Given this history, its not hard to understand why people were nervous in the run-up to the handover in 1997.
Deng Xiaoping, the Chinese leader at the time, eager to preserve Hong Kong as a stable, prosperous and vibrant city, offered a solution for governing the territory, summed up with the catchphrase ''one country, two systems.''
This vague idea implied that the mainland would not interfere in local affairs, a concept that was enshrined in the Hong Kong miniconstitution, known as the Basic Law. Apart from defense and foreign affairs, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, as it became known, would enjoy ''a high degree of autonomy.'' Beijing would not send Communist cadres to run the city. Hong Kong's capitalist and free lifestyle would continue unabated, and most important, the people were promised that the political system would evolve to a democratically elected government.
That process of democratic development is now imperiled. The sticking point is universal suffrage, or, one-person, one-vote.
In the current system, a holdover from colonial times when the British wanted to limit input from the local population, Hong Kong's political leader, known as the chief executive, is selected by a 1,200-member committee of the business and political elite that is rigged to favor of pro-Beijing candidates. Only 40 of the 70 members of the legislative council are elected by one-person, one-vote, the rest are selected by so-called functional constituencies, professional groups that represent industries like banking, law and teaching.
Mainland leaders have said they would allow a system of universal suffrage for the 2017 chief executive election and the 2020 legislative council vote, giving hope that this otherwise modern city would finally catch up with the democratic world.
But since the pro-Beijing Leung Chun-ying became chief executive a year ago, the pro-democracy camp has had one setback after another.
A system of universal suffrage doesn't appear overnight. The pro-democracy camp has urged Leung to begin a public consultation process on how to carry out the direct election of the chief executive in 2017. But he has refused to do that or much of anything.
Meanwhile, people from the pro-Beijing camp have been dropping hints that the government should ban certain people from the pro-democracy camp from running for chief executive.
In mid-March, the chairman of the law committee of the National People's Congress, Qiao Xiaoyang, summoned pro-Beijing legislative council members to Shenzhen and told them that direct election of the chief executive would be held in 2017, but the person must ''love the country, love Hong Kong'' and cannot ''confront'' Beijing,'' according to widely circulated media reports.
Qiao's remarks were a clear signal that the election Beijing has in mind would be neither free nor fair.
Some pro-Beijing politicians have proposed measures to control the nomination process for chief executive candidates, which would make our system about as free as Iran's ''democracy.'' And pro-Beijing politicians have also repeatedly stressed that the so-called functional constituencies are important to Hong Kong's economic development and should kept in place. This lessens the chance that all legislative council members will be elected by universal suffrage in 2020. The result of this tinkering only further divides Hong Kong from the mainland.
Many Hong Kong people have waited for democracy for a generation -- and we're running out of patience. Unfortunately, in an underdeveloped democracy, taking to the streets is one of the few ways that the people can be heard.
Emily Lau is a member of the Hong Kong Legislative Council and chair of the Democratic Party.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (86%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); REAL ESTATE (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); CITIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); EXECUTIVES (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) HONG KONG (99%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



8 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: 'Disaster University' to Address Pacific Quakes and Tsunamis

BYLINE: By JOE COCHRANE

 BODY:
YOGYAKARTA, Indonesia -- The Asia-Pacific may be the biggest driver of the global economy, but it is also the runaway leader in a category that no region would covet: natural disasters.
Between 2001 and 2010, the Asia-Pacific had the most natural disasters, along with the highest number of deaths and the biggest economic losses resulting from them, of any area in the world. On average, more than 200 million people in the region were affected per year by natural disasters during that span, including more than 70,000 killed annually, according to a 2011 report by the U.N. Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific.
Economic losses from disasters are significant. In 2011, the region suffered $294 billion in losses, or 80 percent of the total worldwide, because of the earthquake and tsunami in Japan and floods in Southeast Asia, according to a U.N. report. 
The National Disaster Preparedness Training Center at the University of Hawaii has become one of the forerunners in seeking solutions for the region. The university is the main academic member of the Asia-Pacific Disaster Risk Reduction and Resilience, or A.P.D.R.3, network, which grew out of the 2011 Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation summit meeting in Honolulu, hosted by President Barack Obama.
The university is also involved in an initiative to create a new field of study that covers all aspects of natural disasters, an issue that was discussed in June at the A.P.R.D.3 symposium in Yogyakarta, an Indonesian city that is susceptible to earthquakes, tsunamis, volcanic eruptions and lava flows from Mount Merapi, an active volcano.
Academics from the United States, Japan and Indonesia are now collaborating on a way to create an academic network that they are calling ''Disaster University.'' ''Something like 80 percent of disasters over the last couple of decades have been in the Asia-Pacific, and one of the problems is we've been in response mode and recovery mode, and not in preparation mode,'' said M.R.C. Greenwood, president of the University of Hawaii. ''It became clear that people have to be trained differently, and somebody has to create this new field of disaster resilience, not just disaster management and disaster preparation.''
For example, Tohoku University in Japan, which is working with the University of Hawaii, does not have courses covering the psychological and behavioral management side of disaster response. ''They're great engineers -- they're great at clearing the roads,'' Dr. Greenwood said. ''But what they really did not have is a program in their university for training people how to manage the trauma, how to rebuild their lives -- not just their buildings but their lives.''
The University of Hawaii chose Indonesia as the focus country for the Disaster University initiative and is working with Gadjah Mada University and the Islamic University of Indonesia, both of which are located in Yogyakarta.
Maya Soetoro-Ng, an assistant professor at the University of Hawaii and Mr. Obama's half-sister, is involved in the A.P.R.D.3 initiative. She returned to Yogyakarta, where she lived as a child, for the first time in 23 years in June for the symposium.
''Indonesia, given the number of people, the dense location, the persistence and frequency of natural disasters here, had taken some steps already in creating systems that might have long-range potential that involved community engagement, and real democratic input and leadership at every level, to ensure that they would in fact be ready,'' Dr. Soetoro-Ng said.
Mochamad Teguh, dean of the Faculty of Civil Engineering and Planning at the Islamic University of Indonesia, said he recalled having to cancel classes and evacuate the campus when Mount Merapi erupted in 2010, because the university was within a 20-kilometer, or 12-mile, danger zone of its lava flows.
At that time, university officials began discussing with their Hawaiian counterparts how to strengthen Indonesian education on disaster risk resilience, including preparedness, evacuation, trauma healing and disaster response.
''If we are talking about disasters, it's not only on the engineering side but a combination of social sciences, psychology, law, medicine and other faculties,'' Dr. Teguh said. ''If you look at the map, Indonesia is red. This is our region -- we are the most disaster-prone area in the world.''
Last December, two Indonesian graduate students went to study at the University of Hawaii at Manoa as part of an initiative to create a master's degree focusing on earthquake engineering management at the Islamic University of Indonesia.
Denise Eby Konan, dean of the College of Social Sciences at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, says that the two universities are working to integrate their civil engineering, urban planning, community resilience and economics curricula, so they can benefit both engineers and planners. They are also cooperating with Gadjah Mada University and Tohoku University on developing landslide early warning systems that would link Indonesian communities to U.S. databases via the Pacific Disaster Center in Hawaii. Collaborations with the University of the Philippines, Bicol University, also in the Philippines, and others are in the works.
''Basically, we are networking with the best universities in the region, also located in the highest-risk locations, to better document, categorize, understand and take action,'' she said.
Twelve faculty members from Indonesian universities are studying disaster risk management at the University of Hawaii and with an eye toward how it can be applied to save lives back home. Exactly how Disaster University evolves remains to be seen. Students from Indonesia, and eventually other countries like Vietnam and the Philippines, will continue to study at the University of Hawaii and the Pacific Disaster Center.
Officials, however, say the next major step will be to develop joint degrees in which both U.S. and Asian students can take online courses, as well as courses in each other's countries, and apply the credits back home.
''It will be a being; an intellectual capacity that helps create the field,'' Dr. Greenwood said. ''But it might not be a physical manifestation in one place.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (93%); TSUNAMIS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); VOLCANIC ERUPTIONS (89%); DISASTER PLANNING (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); MARCH 2011 JAPAN EARTHQUAKE & TSUNAMI (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS ECONOMIC & SOCIAL COMMISSION FOR ASIA & THE PACIFIC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNIVERSITY OF HAWAII (56%); ASIA-PACIFIC ECONOMIC COOPERATION (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%) HAWAII, USA (94%); TOHOKU, JAPAN (79%) INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); JAPAN (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



9 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; RAW DATA; Pg. 

LENGTH: 883 words

HEADLINE: E.U. Reaction to Data Sharing Revelations Grew Slowly

BYLINE: By KEVIN J. O'BRIEN

 BODY:
BERLIN -- While Europe was in an uproar Sunday over a magazine's charge that Washington bugged European Union offices in the United States, the backlash on another type of intrusion has been surprisingly muted, namely the disclosure that U.S. technology leaders -- Apple, Facebook, Google, Microsoft and Yahoo -- may have shared E.U. citizens' personal data with an American surveillance program called Prism.
On a continent where courts have ruled that access to the Internet is a fundamental human right, the disclosure last month of the covert program drew criticism from privacy officials and activists in Britain, France and Germany. 
But the volume in Europe on privacy issues has been greater than the actual movement on the ground: Initial reactions to the leak by Edward J. Snowden, a former worker at the U.S. National Security Agency, have not led to concrete demands for greater controls on data sharing or stricter privacy controls that could hinder the operations of those U.S. technology giants in Europe.
In Brussels, the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers are working to update the 1995 data protection law covering the E.U. countries. While the earlier Prism disclosures had given more ammunition to proponents of stricter privacy controls, their effect on the debate has seemed limited.
''The Prism revelations have made parliamentarians more receptive to stronger measures,'' said Joe McNamee, the executive director of European Digital Rights, a Brussels group advocating greater restrictions in data sharing between the European Union and the United States. ''But the reaction has not been as strong as we had hoped for.''
Before the allegations in the magazine Der Spiegel that the United States has bugged E.U. offices, the full European Parliament had been scheduled to debate a resolution on Wednesday that would have at least expressed concern about the broad nature of Prism and its collection of private data from E.U. residents. The resolution was also expected to do the same about a British program, Tempora, which involved tapping undersea communication cables.
It was unclear whether the debate -- and a vote set for Thursday -- would still be held, but the resolution was likely to have been moderate in tone to reflect support for U.S. security concerns, and it was not intended to carry any force of law.
''There are those in Parliament who want a hard line where the E.U. doesn't share any data with the United States, but this is a minority,'' said a legislative staff worker in Brussels who was involved in negotiations to draft a compromise resolution on the issue. The aide, who works for one of the Parliament's most senior members, declined to be identified because he was not authorized to speak publicly on the topic.
Meanwhile, a student group in Austria asked regulators in Ireland, Germany and Luxembourg on Wednesday to bar the European arms of Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo from sending the personal data of E.U. citizens to the United States for processing.
The group, Europe-v-Facebook.org, formed two years ago to protest the social network's privacy policies in Europe, is arguing that the existence of Prism proves that the United States cannot guarantee the necessary ''adequate level of protection'' required of countries that are certified to process the personal data of E.U. citizens.
''There is a reasonable suspicion that there is widespread surveillance,'' Max Schrems, the founder of the group, said.
Mr. Schrems, a 25-year-old law student at the University of Vienna, said the group's best chance of obtaining sanctions might be in Germany, which has the strictest data protection laws in the Union. The Austrian group filed a complaint with the data protection regulator in Bavaria, a German state where Yahoo has a large office, asking that restrictions be placed on the company's U.S.-bound data transfers.
Spokesmen for Apple, Facebook, Microsoft and Yahoo declined to comment on the complaint. Google was not included in the initial complaints, Mr. Schrems said, because Europeans who sign up for its services contract directly with Google in America, not with its European subsidiaries.
(The German complaint focused on Yahoo because of its big office in Munich. The Irish complaint focused on Apple and Facebook because they have large offices in Dublin. The Luxembourg complaint focused on Microsoft, whose Skype subsidiary is in Luxembourg.)
On Thursday, the Bavarian regulator transferred the case to the German federal data protection commissioner, Peter Schaar. In a June 7 blog post, Mr. Schaar had described the existence and reach of the Prism program as ''outrageous,'' adding that such systematic surveillance without prior judicial consent would be illegal in Germany.
But it was unclear whether his office could block any data transfer activity by Yahoo's German headquarters in Munich. Juliane Heinrich, a spokeswoman for Mr. Schaar in Berlin, said the German regulator was analyzing the issue of jurisdiction to determine whether and how to proceed against Yahoo.
The Brussels-based American Chamber of Commerce to the European Union said it supported an E.U.-U.S. government dialogue on the data transfer issue.
''Prism needs to be addressed at government level,'' said Anna McNally of the American Chamber.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); DATA SECURITY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (79%); AUSTRIA (79%); LUXEMBOURG (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



10 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: A New Mayor to Match Jersey City's Ambitions

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
JERSEY CITY -- Once an unfashionable town named after an unfashionable state, this has become a place of bike lanes and brunch spots, organic farmers' markets and free yoga in the parks. Brought on by the swell of affluent young residents who followed financial firms across the river, strollers now crowd the sidewalks and shimmering towers filled with luxury rentals line the waterfront. Kumon, the supplementary after-school program of the anxious elite, occupies a shiny storefront downtown.
Through all of this, however, Jersey City politics have stayed stubbornly within the mold of Frank Hague, the early-20th-century mayor and political boss who set the standard for corruption, even by New Jersey standards. Newly vigorous community groups have complained of projects stumbling because of bureaucracy. Developers have accused the city of playing favorites with tax abatements. A bribery scandal has swirled around City Hall. 
But on Monday, Jersey City will swear in a new mayor, one whose campaign slogan -- ''enough'' -- and impressive résumé seem to match the city's new ambition.
The new mayor is Steven Fulop, a 36-year-old former trader at Goldman Sachs. After 9/11, he took a leave to serve in the Marine Corps, and upon his return from Iraq worked his way up as a city councilman, helping to organize community groups and crusading for better schools and stronger ethics laws.
''It's a breath of fresh air,'' said Tony Frier, who moved here two decades ago and opened the 9th and Coles Tavern with his husband three years ago. ''There was so much bureaucracy and red tape, it was bogging everything down. There was no progress being made. He's got a vision. It's going to give everybody new life.''
Mr. Fulop, a Democrat, has built a reputation as a reformer, impressing even his former adversaries with his plans to standardize tax abatement procedures, restructure the Police Department to reduce crime in neighborhoods that have been left out of the city's rebirth, and produce greater civic involvement from the financial firms that have made this area Wall Street West, including the creation of a program to offer summer jobs to local students.
''People are finding us across the river, and I want to expand that,'' Mr. Fulop said. ''Historically, people outgrow the West Village, come here and then move to the suburbs. Our goal is to stop that last move.''
Already, more families with children are staying. Tribeca Pediatrics has an outpost across from Hamilton Park, which was rebuilt by neighborhood groups after years of occupation by the Latin Kings.
Still, the city's public schools remain under state control, with all but a handful classified as failing. Residents pay premium taxes, even as garbage cans overflow and potholes go unrepaired. Though downtown neighborhoods have gotten safer, neighborhoods farther out still struggle with high crime rates. Many have long suspected that the city's recent success was due to its proximity to New York, and not because of, but in spite of, the city's political establishment. Hudson County residents have reason to temper their optimism: the fresh-faced new mayor of Hoboken, Peter Cammarano, was one of 44 officials swept up in the bribery scandal that brought down Jersey City's deputy mayor four years ago.
The second of three sons born to immigrants from Israel and Romania who own a deli in Newark, Mr. Fulop grew up in Edison, N.J., and like so many of his new constituents, moved here to work for Goldman. He bought an apartment near the waterfront in 2000, figuring the influx of financial firms would make the city a good investment.
After his tour in Iraq, he ran unsuccessfully for Congress before narrowly winning a seat on the City Council in 2005. Four years ago, Mr. Fulop expanded his political influence by sponsoring a winning slate of school board members. More recently, he helped bring in a longtime veteran of the New York City schools, Marcia Lyles, as superintendent.
And he has hammered city officials about ethics violations since 2009, when the sweeping corruption investigation known as Operation Bid Rig ensnared several dozen Hudson County politicians, including several associates of Mayor Jerramiah T. Healy, on charges of accepting bribes from a developer.
''I don't think people realize how much that left an impression on the city,'' said Shelley Skinner, who met Mr. Fulop after he responded to an e-mail complaining about the quality of the schools, encouraging her and a group of parents to organize. ''O.K., Hudson County is corrupt, but this is what our tax dollars are going toward? People with kids think, 'I'm not getting a quality school because of this?' ''
''After his election, so many of my friends said, 'We can stay,' '' she said.
The election was nonpartisan, expensive and rollicking. Mr. Healy and Mr. Fulop together spent about $2 million.
Mr. Healy was endorsed by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark, and, remarkably in a city with little national profile, President Obama. But Mr. Fulop ran ads with footage of Mr. Healy, who was not accused in the bribery scandal, meeting with the developer who had been at the heart of it. A week before the election, Mr. Healy found himself explaining a long ago incident in which he had been photographed naked on his front porch.
Mr. Fulop won with 52 percent of the vote, winning over new residents but also what he calls ''the born and raiseds.''
''They saw in Steve a young guy with new ideas who was going to turn the city around,'' said Junior Maldonado, the incumbent councilman Mr. Fulop defeated in 2005, and who later turned into a supporter. ''I have been watching him developing a vision and a mission for Jersey City, and I liked what I saw,'' he said. ''I think the people in Jersey City radiated to his message.''
Since his election, Mr. Fulop has held meetings with residents and sent out surveys to ask them what they want from City Hall. He has hired Howard Safir, the former commissioner of the Police and Fire Departments in New York, to reorganize the Police Department. He has done away with a fleet of city cars.
It is a sign of the new Jersey City, and the excitement surrounding its new mayor, that his inauguration will be filmed for an episode of Cake Boss.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thanks to a swell of affluent young residents, Jersey City has become a place of bike lanes and brunch spots. Above, Van Vorst Park. Left, the farmers' market on Grove Street.
 Steven Fulop, the new mayor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NADAV NEUHAUS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (91%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); TAX LAW (88%); CITY LIFE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); YOGA (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); CHILDREN (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); CORRUPTION (74%); ETHICS (74%); BRIBERY (74%); TAX INCENTIVES (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); SUBURBS (72%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (71%); SCANDALS (69%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (67%); FAMILY (67%); POLICE FORCES (58%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%); GANGS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



11 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: War On the Unemployed

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Is life too easy for the unemployed? You may not think so, and I certainly don't think so. But that, remarkably, is what many and perhaps most Republicans believe. And they're acting on that belief: there's a nationwide movement under way to punish the unemployed, based on the proposition that we can cure unemployment by making the jobless even more miserable.
Consider, for example, the case of North Carolina. The state was hit hard by the Great Recession, and its unemployment rate, at 8.8 percent, is among the highest in the nation, higher than in long-suffering California or Michigan. As is the case everywhere, many of the jobless have been out of work for six months or more, thanks to a national environment in which there are three times as many people seeking work as there are job openings. 
Nonetheless, the state's government has just sharply cut aid to the unemployed. In fact, the Republicans controlling that government were so eager to cut off aid that they didn't just reduce the duration of benefits; they also reduced the average weekly benefit, making the state ineligible for about $700 million in federal aid to the long-term unemployed.
It's quite a spectacle, but North Carolina isn't alone: a number of other states have cut unemployment benefits, although none at the price of losing federal aid. And at the national level, Congress has been allowing extended benefits introduced during the economic crisis to expire, even though long-term unemployment remains at historic highs.
So what's going on here? Is it just cruelty? Well, the G.O.P., which believes that 47 percent of Americans are ''takers'' mooching off the job creators, which in many states is denying health care to the poor simply to spite President Obama, isn't exactly overflowing with compassion. But the war on the unemployed isn't motivated solely by cruelty; rather, it's a case of meanspiritedness converging with bad economic analysis.
In general, modern conservatives believe that our national character is being sapped by social programs that, in the memorable words of Paul Ryan, the chairman of the House Budget Committee, ''turn the safety net into a hammock that lulls able-bodied people to lives of dependency and complacency.'' More specifically, they believe that unemployment insurance encourages jobless workers to stay unemployed, rather than taking available jobs.
Is there anything to this belief? The average unemployment benefit in North Carolina is $299 a week, pretax; some hammock. So anyone who imagines that unemployed workers are deliberately choosing to live a life of leisure has no idea what the experience of unemployment, and especially long-term unemployment, is really like. Still, there is some evidence that unemployment benefits make workers a bit more choosy in their job search. When the economy is booming, this extra choosiness may raise the ''non-accelerating-inflation'' unemployment rate -- the unemployment rate at which inflation starts to rise, inducing the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates and choke off economic expansion.
All of this is, however, irrelevant to our current situation, in which inflation is not a concern and the Fed's problem is that it can't get interest rates low enough. While cutting unemployment benefits will make the unemployed even more desperate, it will do nothing to create more jobs -- which means that even if some of those currently unemployed do manage to find work, they will do so only by taking jobs away from those currently employed.
But wait -- what about supply and demand? Won't making the unemployed desperate put downward pressure on wages? And won't lower labor costs encourage job growth? No -- that's a fallacy of composition. Cutting one worker's wage may help save his or her job by making that worker cheaper than competing workers; but cutting everyone's wages just reduces everyone's income -- and it worsens the burden of debt, which is one of the main forces holding the economy back.
Oh, and let's not forget that cutting benefits to the unemployed, many of whom are living hand-to-mouth, will lead to lower overall spending -- again, worsening the economic situation, and destroying more jobs.
The move to slash unemployment benefits, then, is counterproductive as well as cruel; it will swell the ranks of the unemployed even as it makes their lives ever more miserable.
Can anything be done to reverse this policy wrong turn? The people out to punish the unemployed won't be dissuaded by rational argument; they know what they know, and no amount of evidence will change their views. My sense, however, is that the war on the unemployed has been making so much progress in part because it has been flying under the radar, with too many people unaware of what's going on.
Well, now you know. And you should be angry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (88%); JOB CREATION (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); BUDGETS (75%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); PAUL RYAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



12 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Legal Merger Shows Rise In Criminal Defense Status

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
There once was a time when most of New York's top law firms shunned criminal defense work, turning up their noses at assignments they viewed as unprofitable and déclassé.
Out of this void emerged an elite corps of small firms that specialized in defending corporate executives and Wall Street financiers under government scrutiny. The lawyers at these firms relished representing the accused, and did not mind scuffing up their white shoes while butting heads with prosecutors.
On Monday, one of those lawyers, Charles A. Stillman, will announce that his firm, Stillman & Friedman, has combined with Ballard Spahr, an old-line Philadelphia firm looking to enter the New York market and expand its criminal defense practice. Reflecting the strength of the Stillman & Friedman brand, Ballard's New York office will be called Ballard Spahr Stillman & Friedman.
''They're a perfect fit,'' Mark S. Stewart, chairman of Ballard Spahr, said of the 14-lawyer firm. ''It's easy to go out and get bodies, but rare to get the judgment our clients will be getting with Stillman & Friedman.'' 
The combination speaks to a shift that has taken place over decades, of corporate firms making a core business line out of white-collar work, including conducting internal investigations, handling foreign-bribery cases and representing executives in a number of scandals. As firms struggle to increase revenue, they realize that representing business people behaving badly is good for the bottom line.
It also represents a generational shift. Mr. Stillman rose to prominence in the 1970s and 1980s alongside a number of other criminal defense lawyers, including Stanley S. Arkin and Robert G. Morvillo, who died in 2011 at 73. These lawyers -- most of them former prosecutors at the United States attorney's office in Manhattan -- dominated the market for white-collar cases. Today, flotillas of large-firm lawyers do criminal defense work.
''For guys like Charlie and me, the game has changed,'' said Mr. Arkin, 75. ''What was once a niche practice is now a big business for virtually every national firm.''
As evidence of the transformation, Gerald L. Shargel, a renowned criminal defense lawyer who has represented Mafia figures and corrupt politicians, shut down his four-lawyer practice in June and joined Winston & Strawn, a 900-lawyer firm.
Large firms have benefited from taking on a variety of white-collar defense assignments, and the work is worldwide. With Fortune 500 companies growing inexorably across the globe, they need help navigating a thicket of international laws and regulatory regimes.
There is also a steady stream of financial scandals like the insider trading investigations or the controversy surrounding Libor, the global benchmark interest rate. These representations can generate big revenue.
Take, for instance, the defense of Rajat K. Gupta, the former Goldman Sachs board member convicted of leaking the bank's boardroom secrets to a hedge fund manager. Mr. Gupta's defense, led by Gary P. Naftalis of Kramer Levin Naftalis & Frankel, has cost more than $35 million, according to court filings.
Today, even the leadership at several top firms comes from the white-collar criminal defense bar. Dechert L.L.P. is led by Andrew J. Levander, who represents, among others, Jon S. Corzine, the former chief executive of the collapsed brokerage firm MF Global, which regulators sued last week.
The new chairman of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, Scott A. Edelman, has a specialty in defense work. And the global head of litigation at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom is David M. Zornow, who was the firm's first white-collar criminal defense lawyer when he joined in 1989. All are former federal prosecutors.
While there remain successful white-collar criminal defense boutiques across New York, they now routinely find themselves in competition with the city's biggest firms. The smaller firms consistently land work representing individuals, but acknowledge that it is difficult to win business on laborious, document-intensive assignments that require many lawyers, like internal investigations and Foreign Corrupt Practices Act cases.
Still, ''there will be plenty of business available to firms, both big and small, that have a reputation in the field,'' said Elkan Abramowitz, a partner at Morvillo Abramowitz Grand Iason & Anello, a 37-lawyer firm.
Mr. Stillman, 75, has built a sterling reputation over four decades. A Brooklyn native and former federal prosecutor, he has had numerous prominent clients, including Clark M. Clifford, a former defense secretary later charged in the Bank of Credit and Commerce International scandal; Sol Wachtler, the former chief judge of New York's highest court, who was accused of trying to extort money from his onetime mistress; and Mark H. Swartz, the former chief financial officer of Tyco, who served prison time after being convicted of looting his company.
In an interview, Mr. Stillman said that Ballard -- a 500-lawyer firm with 13 offices across the country -- first approached him about the idea of combining. But he also said that he and his partner, Julian W. Friedman, had for years considered merging with a big firm because of the changes they were seeing in the profession.
''We had heard enough times, 'We want you to handle this litigation but you're not big enough,' that we had to consider a bigger platform to serve our clients,'' Mr. Stillman said.
He recently lost a big client to a large firm. He had represented Mathew Martoma, a former portfolio manager at SAC Capital Management charged in a vast insider-trading scheme. But in April, Mr. Martoma, whose trial is scheduled for November, switched lawyers, replacing Mr. Stillman with Richard M. Strassberg of Goodwin Procter, a firm with roughly 800 lawyers.
''I would have liked to try that case,'' Mr. Stillman said. ''Do I think he made a mistake? I'm not going to address that.''
Stillman & Friedman also suffered a loss in 2011 when a well-known partner, Paul Shechtman, left the firm to join Zuckerman Spaeder, a firm with about 100 lawyers and with headquarters in Washington.
For Mr. Stillman, a prime reason to combine with Ballard was to ensure that his firm will be well positioned for the future when he retires. All eight of his partners will become Ballard partners. The five other lawyers are also moving, as is the support staff, including Mr. Swartz, the former Tyco chief financial officer, who is employed by the firm as a clerk while on work-release.
''I'd like to know that I helped my colleagues get to a place where they could live happily ever after,'' Mr. Stillman said. ''I owe it to them.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles A. Stillman has had numerous prominent clients. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); MERGERS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); SCANDALS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BRIBERY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (76%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INSIDER TRADING (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

COMPANY: BALLARD SPAHR LLP (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); WINSTON & STRAWN LLP (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541199 ALL OTHER LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



13 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ROME JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: When Italians Chat, Hands and Fingers Do the Talking

BYLINE: By RACHEL DONADIO

 BODY:
ROME -- In the great open-air theater that is Rome, the characters talk with their hands as much as their mouths. While talking animatedly on their cellphones or smoking cigarettes or even while downshifting their tiny cars through rush-hour traffic, they gesticulate with enviably elegant coordination.
From the classic fingers pinched against the thumb that can mean ''Whaddya want from me?'' or ''I wasn't born yesterday'' to a hand circled slowly, indicating ''Whatever'' or ''That'll be the day,'' there is an eloquence to the Italian hand gesture. In a culture that prizes oratory, nothing deflates airy rhetoric more swiftly. 
Some gestures are simple: the side of the hand against the belly means hungry; the index finger twisted into the cheek means something tastes good; and tapping one's wrist is a universal sign for ''hurry up.'' But others are far more complex. They add an inflection -- of fatalism, resignation, world-weariness -- that is as much a part of the Italian experience as breathing.
Two open hands can ask a real question, ''What's happening?'' But hands placed in prayer become a sort of supplication, a rhetorical question: ''What do you expect me to do about it?'' Ask when a Roman bus might arrive, and the universal answer is shrugged shoulders, an ''ehh'' that sounds like an engine turning over and two raised hands that say, ''Only when Providence allows.''
To Italians, gesturing comes naturally. ''You mean Americans don't gesture? They talk like this?'' asked Pasquale Guarrancino, a Roman taxi driver, freezing up and placing his arms flat against his sides. He had been sitting in his cab talking with a friend outside, each moving his hands in elaborate choreography. Asked to describe his favorite gesture, he said it was not fit for print.
In Italy, children and adolescents gesture. The elderly gesture. Some Italians joke that gesturing may even begin before birth. ''In the ultrasound, I think the baby is saying, 'Doctor, what do you want from me?' '' said Laura Offeddu, a Roman and an elaborate gesticulator, as she pinched her fingers together and moved her hand up and down.
On a recent afternoon, two middle-aged men in elegant dark suits were deep in conversation outside the Giolitti ice cream parlor in downtown Rome, gesturing even as they held gelato in cones. One, who gave his name only as Alessandro, noted that younger people used a gesture that his generation did not: quotation marks to signify irony.
Sometimes gesturing can get out of hand. Last year, Italy's highest court ruled that a man who inadvertently struck an 80-year-old woman while gesticulating in a piazza in the southern region Puglia was liable for civil damages. ''The public street isn't a living room,'' the judges ruled, saying, ''The habit of accompanying a conversation with gestures, while certainly licit, becomes illicit'' in some contexts.
In 2008, Umberto Bossi, the colorful founder of the conservative Northern League, raised his middle finger during the singing of Italy's national anthem. But prosecutors in Venice determined that the gesture, while obscene and the cause of widespread outrage, was not a crime.
Gestures have long been a part of Italy's political spectacle. Former Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi is a noted gesticulator. When he greeted President Obama and his wife, Michelle, at a meeting of the Group of 20 leaders in September 2009, he extended both hands, palms facing toward himself, and then pinched his fingers as he looked Mrs. Obama up and down -- a gesture that might be interpreted as ''va-va-voom.''
In contrast, Giulio Andreotti -- Christian Democrat, seven-time prime minister and by far the most powerful politician of the Italian postwar era -- was famous for keeping both hands clasped in front of him. The subtle, patient gesture functioned as a kind of deterrent, indicating the tremendous power he could deploy if he chose to.
Isabella Poggi, a professor of psychology at Roma Tre University and an expert on gestures, has identified around 250 gestures that Italians use in everyday conversation. ''There are gestures expressing a threat or a wish or desperation or shame or pride,'' she said. The only thing differentiating them from sign language is that they are used individually and lack a full syntax, Ms. Poggi added.
Far more than quaint folklore, gestures have a rich history. One theory holds that Italians developed them as an alternative form of communication during the centuries when they lived under foreign occupation -- by Austria, France and Spain in the 14th through 19th centuries -- as a way of communicating without their overlords understanding.
Another theory, advanced by Adam Kendon, the editor in chief of the journal Gesture, is that in overpopulated cities like Naples, gesturing became a way of competing, of marking one's territory in a crowded arena. ''To get attention, people gestured and used their whole bodies,'' Ms. Poggi said, explaining the theory.
Andrea De Jorio, a 19th-century priest and archaeologist, discovered comparisons between the gestures used by the figures painted on ancient Greek vases found in the Naples area and the gestures used by his Neapolitan contemporaries.
Over the centuries, languages have evolved, but gestures remain. ''Gestures change less than words,'' Ms. Poggi said.
Philosophers have long been preoccupied by gesture. In ''The New Science,'' the 18th-century Italian philosopher Giambattista Vico, who once taught rhetoric at the University of Naples, argued that gesture might have been the earliest form of language.
By some accounts, the philosopher Ludwig Wittgenstein overhauled -- or at least refined -- his theory that language was used to establish truth, to inform, after the Italian economist Piero Sraffa responded to his theory with a single gesture: fingers brushing the chin, indicating ''I don't give a damn,'' the classic antiauthority brushoff.
Such a gesture does not convey information; it negates it. ''It's a rebellion against power,'' Ms. Poggi said, ''a way of reacquiring one's own dignity.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The politician Nicola Cosentino at a news conference in January. Italians talk with their hands as much as their mouths.
Nichi Vendola, a politician, punctuated an answer with a hand gesture.
FEAR: Bringing together the fingers on one hand can be an indicator that someone is afraid.
WATCH IT: A motion with a flattened hand tells someone to watch out or the gesturer might hit them.
BEATS ME: Pulling back with both hands gives the signal ''I don't know'' or ''It wasn't me.''
 WHY: A motion with tented fingers can be used to question why the gesturer or someone else did something. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GIANNI CIPRIANO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (77%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (76%); MEN (74%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); ICE CREAM (62%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (60%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (60%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (60%); APPEALS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ITALY (92%); UNITED STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



14 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Creativity, Not Just Catch-Up, At Retooled Summer Schools

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
JACKSONVILLE, Fla. -- Just a few years ago, school districts around the country were slashing summer classes as the economic downturn eviscerated their budgets. Now, despite continuing budgetary challenges, districts are re-envisioning summer school as something more than a compulsory exercise where students who need to make up lost credits fight to stay awake inside humid classrooms.
According to the National Summer Learning Association, a nonprofit group, 25 of the country's largest school districts -- including Charlotte, N.C.; Cincinnati; Oakland, Calif.; Pittsburgh; and Providence, R.I. -- have developed summer school programs that move beyond the traditional remedial model. The New York City public schools offer several summer programs that mingle enrichment with academics, including an intensive arts institute and a vocational program combining course work and paid internships.
Here in Jacksonville, the academic year ended three weeks ago, but Roshelle Campbell drove into the parking lot of Sallye B. Mathis Elementary School on a recent scorching morning to drop off her son, Gregory Carodine, for a full day of classes. 
Gregory is one of more than 300 students spending six weeks of his summer vacation at Mathis -- not because he failed an exam or a class, but because educators in the Duval County Public Schools fret that too many children are at risk of falling behind during the summer.
''He has always been so smart,'' Ms. Campbell, a security guard, said of Gregory, 6, who will start first grade in the fall. ''I felt like education is really important, and I really don't want him to lose that during the summer time.''
Even in districts with severe fiscal woes, like Baltimore, Chicago, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and San Francisco, education officials have enlisted the support of philanthropic organizations that believe keeping children, particularly those from disadvantaged backgrounds, in school during the summer may help level the playing field for poor and more affluent students.
''I know that there are students that attend public schools who are in Europe right now, and there are kids who are participating in a soccer camp,'' said Nikolai Vitti, superintendent of the Duval County Public Schools, which has quadrupled the number of voluntary summer slots it offers in the past five years. ''I think that's healthy. But I think what we should be talking about as a country is, do all of our children have access and opportunities to do that so they are not sitting at home, waking up at 11 in the morning, eating doughnuts and watching cartoons? That's a reality for some of our kids.''
Instead, educators are increasingly viewing summer as a time to bolster the material that children, including both strong performers and struggling students, learn throughout the regular school year. Along with reading, math and science instruction, the districts are packing the summer schedule with activities like art and music; classes in forensic science and marine biology; sailing, fencing and karate lessons; and field trips to museums and theaters.
Research has shown that students regress during the summer, losing an average of about one month of instruction per year, with the so-called summer slide disproportionately affecting low-income children. The lack of high-quality summer programs can also hurt working families whose children have few options during the long months off.
Enhanced summer school ''should be part of public education until we recognize that the traditional school calendar doesn't fit the way Americans live anymore,'' said Harris M. Cooper, a professor of education at Duke University who has studied summer learning loss. ''Adding 20 days to the school year and having multiple short breaks rather than the one long break actually fits better with the way families live and the way kids learn.''
In an effort to evaluate what kinds of programs produce better academic results, the Wallace Foundation, a private charitable organization, has committed $50 million to study summer schooling in Jacksonville and several other urban districts, including in Boston, Dallas, Pittsburgh and Rochester, N.Y. Beginning this summer, researchers from the RAND Corporation are following about 5,700 students in those cities who will enter fourth grade this fall.
The study will track their standardized test performance for at least two years, as well as behavioral factors like a student's ability to work in teams or persist on tasks. Students were chosen by lottery, and the study will compare the summer school students with those who applied but did not get spots.
''We're not assuming there will be massive inflows of new public dollars into education,'' said Ann Stone, senior research and evaluation officer at the Wallace Foundation. ''In a time of constrained resources, getting the rigorous evidence about what works is really important.''
In Jacksonville, the district began what it calls its Superintendent's Summer Academy in 2009, using federal stimulus dollars. That first summer, the district enrolled about 700 students in five elementary schools.
This year, close to 3,000 students from 52 schools are attending summer sessions at 10 campuses around the county. The programs, which are financed with a mix of federal and local dollars as well as the Wallace Foundation grant, run for six weeks for eight hours a day.
Certified teachers from around the district teach academic courses, and in the classes participating in the RAND study, teachers are limited to no more than 15 students.
Partners from nonprofit groups help to run enrichment activities and take the students on field trips to local museums, the bowling alley, the movies and a wildlife reserve.
Some of the academic instruction looks similar to more traditional school-year classes, with read-aloud circles and science quizzes, but others have a more creative bent.
On a recent morning at Sallye B. Mathis Elementary, seven fourth graders teamed up at computers in the library to write scripts for short films they would later produce. ''This is a lot more fun than school,'' said Asi'yon Brinson, 9, as she and Danajha Camel, 9, tapped out lines of dialogue on a keyboard for their screenplay, ''A Trip to Outer Space.''
Kerri Alexander, who teaches fourth-grade reading and writing during the regular school year, moved between the students, making gentle editing suggestions about pacing and punctuation.
Unlike a pedestrian English class exercise that assigns students five-paragraph essays, the script writing conveyed academic skills in a more entertaining way. ''They don't even realize that they are learning to write and present themselves while they are writing these scripts,'' said Angela Maxey, the principal of Mathis.
The summer program, Ms. Maxey said, is in effect a kind of laboratory for new, more engaging instructional ideas. ''It is what school should be like during the school year,'' she said.
She was blunt about the fact that the Wallace Foundation financing also allowed her to provide incentives like ice cream parties for students with perfect attendance records.
''You could say we could use the money in a different way, but are the kids smiling? Are they coming? Are they learning?'' said Ms. Maxey, an ebullient woman who wore a pink crown made by a student one afternoon when she threw what she told the children was her birthday party.
''Part of what the study is looking at,'' she said, ''is how do we motivate children so they want to learn in the summer?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rising fourth grader during a summer school program last week at Sallye B. Mathis Elementary School in Jacksonville, Fla., above. Students took part in a science class there, below left. ''It is what school should be like during the school year,'' said Angela Maxey, the principal, below right, with some of her students. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARAH BETH GLICKSTEEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); MATHEMATICS (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (53%); SOCCER (50%); PHILANTHROPY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (57%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (57%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



15 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: Future of Catholic Schools

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Concern for Minorities as Catholic Schools Close'' (news article, June 21) misses the mark in one important regard. Many of us who work in Catholic schools have more hope than despair, and we have reason to believe that the future of Catholic schools in urban communities looks less like hospice or retrenchment and more like transformation and urban renewal. 
As a longtime Tucson resident, I'm privileged to work with the Notre Dame ACE Academies, an innovative partnership between the University of Notre Dame and five Catholic schools serving disadvantaged children in Arizona and Florida. N.D.A.A. Tucson kindergarten students perform in the top 10 percent of the country in reading and the top 15 percent in math.
In a neighborhood where few children will graduate from high school and go to college, these 5-year-olds on the south side of Tucson are among the best students in the country.
These children and their teachers are completely changing the narrative for Catholic education. Despite constraints, the Catholic school community is filled with zeal, not cynicism. Catholic-school champions continue to fight for their children's future.
RACHEL MORENO Notre Dame, Ind., June 27, 2013
The writer is a professor of the practice at the Institute for Educational Initiatives, University of Notre Dame.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (94%) ARIZONA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



16 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: Paid via Card, Workers Feel Sting of Fees

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
A growing number of American workers are confronting a frustrating predicament on payday: to get their wages, they must first pay a fee.
For these largely hourly workers, paper paychecks and even direct deposit have been replaced by prepaid cards issued by their employers. Employees can use these cards, which work like debit cards, at an A.T.M. to withdraw their pay.
But in the overwhelming majority of cases, using the card involves a fee. And those fees can quickly add up: one provider, for example, charges $1.75 to make a withdrawal from most A.T.M.'s, $2.95 for a paper statement and $6 to replace a card. Some users even have to pay $7 inactivity fees for not using their cards.
These fees can take such a big bite out of paychecks that some employees end up making less than the minimum wage once the charges are taken into account, according to interviews with consumer lawyers, employees, and state and federal regulators. 
Devonte Yates, 21, who earns $7.25 an hour working a drive-through station at a McDonald's in Milwaukee, says he spends $40 to $50 a month on fees associated with his JPMorgan Chase payroll card.
''It's pretty bad,'' he said. ''There's a fee for literally everything you do.''
Certain transactions with the Chase pay card are free, according to a fee schedule.
Many employees say they have no choice but to use the cards: some companies no longer offer common payroll options like ordinary checks or direct deposit.
At companies where there is a choice, it is often more in theory than in practice, according to interviews with employees, state regulators and consumer advocates. Employees say they are often automatically enrolled in the payroll card programs and confronted with a pile of paperwork if they want to opt out.
''We hear virtually every week from employees who never knew there were other options, and employers certainly don't disabuse workers of that idea,'' said Deyanira Del Rio, an associate director of the Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project, which works with community groups in New York.
Taco Bell, Walgreen and Wal-Mart are among the dozens of well-known companies that offer prepaid cards to their workers; the cards are particularly popular with retailers and restaurants. And they are quickly gaining momentum. In 2012, $34 billion was loaded onto 4.6 million active payroll cards, according to the research firm Aite Group. Aite said it expected that to reach $68.9 billion and 10.8 million cards by 2017.
Companies and card issuers, which include Bank of America, Wells Fargo and Citigroup, say the cards are cheaper and more efficient than checks -- a calculator on Visa's Web site estimates that a company with 500 workers could save $21,000 a year by switching from checks to payroll cards. On its Web site, Citigroup trumpets how the cards ''guarantee pay on time to all employees.''
The largest issuer of payroll cards is NetSpend, based in Austin, Tex. Chuck Harris, the company's president, says it attracts companies by offering convenience to employees and cost savings to employers.
''We built a product that an employer can fairly represent to their employees as having real benefits to them,'' he said.
Sometimes, though, the incentives for employers to steer workers toward the cards are more explicit. In the case of the New York City Housing Authority, it stands to receive a dollar for every employee it signs up to Citibank's payroll cards, according to a contract reviewed by The New York Times. (Sheila Stainback, a spokeswoman for the agency, noted that it had an annual budget of $3 billion and that roughly 430 employees had signed up for the card.)
For Natalie Gunshannon, 27, another McDonald's worker, the owners of the franchise that she worked for in Dallas, Pa., she says, refused to deposit her pay directly into her checking account at a local credit union, which lets its customers use its A.T.M.'s free. Instead, Ms. Gunshannon said, she was forced to use a payroll card issued by JPMorgan Chase. She has since quit her job at the drive-through window and is suing the franchise owners.
''I know I deserve to get fairly paid for my work,'' she said.
The franchise owners, Albert and Carol Mueller, said in a statement that they comply with all employment, pay and work laws, and try to provide a positive experience for employees. McDonald's itself, noting that it is not named in the suit, says it lets franchisees determine employment and pay policies.
Some employers and card issuers say that the payroll cards are useful for low-wage workers who do not have bank accounts. They also say that the fees on the cards are usually lower than those associated with check-cashing services, which are often the only other option for people who do not have bank accounts.
''An unbanked employee is likely to be subject to a check-cashing fee when they try to cash a payroll check,'' said Nina Das, a Citigroup spokeswoman. She said that ''someone cashing a payroll check for $500 would end up paying $15 at a 3 percent check-cashing fee.''
This population -- people who tend to use few, if any, bank services -- is swelling. About 10 million households in the United States do not use a bank at all, up from nine million four years ago, according to estimates from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. And 24 million households that do have a bank account still use expensive financial services like prepaid cards, the agency said.
For banks that are looking to recoup billions of dollars in lost income from a spate of recent limits on debit and credit card fees, issuing payroll cards can be lucrative -- the products were largely untouched by recent financial regulations. As a result, some of the nation's largest banks are expanding into the business, banking analysts say.
The lack of regulation in the payroll card market, while alluring for some of the issuers, can potentially leave cardholders swimming in fees. Take the example of inactivity fees that penalize customers for infrequently using their cards. The Federal Reserve has banned such fees for credit and debit cards, but no protections exist on prepaid cards. Cards used by more than two dozen major retailers have inactivity fees of $7 or more, according to a review of agreements.
Some employees can also be hit with $25 overdraft fees, called ''balance protection,'' on some of the prepaid cards. Under the Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law, banks with more than $10 billion in assets are barred from levying overdraft fees on customers' checking accounts.
Many fees are virtually impossible to dodge, some employees say. A Victoria's Secret employee, Bintou Kamara, for example, said it cost her $1.50 just to transfer money from her Citi payroll card to her checking account.
''I just make such little money that it seems like a lot to pay just to get access to it,'' said Ms. Kamara, 23, who works as a sales clerk in New York.
Naoki Fujita, a policy associate at Retail Action Project, an advocacy group for retail workers, said, ''These are people who can least afford to fork over huge fees.''
On some of its payroll cards, NetSpend charges $2.25 for out-of-network A.T.M. withdrawals, 50 cents for balance inquiries via a representative, 50 cents for a purchase using the card, $5 for statement reprints, $10 to close an account, $25 for a balance-protection program and $7.50 after 60 days of inactivity, according to an April presentation by the company reviewed by The Times.
Patrick Brown, NetSpend's senior vice president, said the company was ''passionate that consumers can access their wages free of charge,'' providing an A.T.M. navigator to help employees find fee-free cash machines.
Some large retailers, like Home Depot, Wal-Mart, Walgreen and Limited Brands, the parent company of Victoria's Secret, say they let employees choose whether they will receive their wages through direct deposit or a prepaid card, along with checks in some cases.
In other cases, employees say that while they do get some free cash withdrawals at certain A.T.M.'s, it is difficult to find the right machines in their neighborhoods. Ms. Das of Citigroup said that its ''payroll card holders have access to over 27,000 A.T.M.'s across the country.''
Problems arise, though, when employers mandate the use of prepaid cards. In 25 states, employers are allowed to forgo paper checks and offer direct deposit or payroll cards; in the remaining states, regulations are less clear and employers are taking a risk by not offering a paper-check option, too, according to research by Madeline K. Aufseeser, an analyst at Aite. It is unclear how many employers offer payroll cards.
For low-wage employees, the fees can lead to unusual solutions.
Krystal McLemore, 22, makes $7.65 an hour at a Taco Bell in St. Louis. She said she was told to sign up for a payroll card. (Taco Bell says it ''offers direct deposit and a voluntary option of payroll cards as an added convenience'' for employees.)
But she grew tired of being charged $1.75, in addition to the A.T.M.'s fees, to withdraw cash. After a tip from a co-worker, Ms. McLemore realized she could reduce her charges if she took out all her wages once a month. Now, supplied with one of the most modern banking products, Ms. McLemore has a decidedly old-fashioned way of handling her pay: it is stacked in a shoe box in her closet in $10s and $20s.
''It costs too much to get my money,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Natalie Gunshannon, 27, with her daughter, Anie Popish, 7, said she had to use a card because her employers would not deposit her pay directly into her account. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NIKO J. KALLIANIOTIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (89%); FAST FOOD (87%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); PREPAID CARDS (77%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); DEBIT CARDS (71%); RETAILERS (67%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%); WELLS FARGO & CO (60%); VISA INC (58%); TACO BELL CORP (52%); CITIGROUP INC (50%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%); WFC (NYSE) (60%); V (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (50%); C (BMV) (50%); 8710 (TSE) (50%); BAC (NYSE) (50%); BAC (LSE) (50%); 8648 (TSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (52%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



17 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PAYING TILL IT HURTS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3176 words

HEADLINE: American Way of Birth, Costliest in the World

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
LACONIA, N.H. -- Seven months pregnant, at a time when most expectant couples are stockpiling diapers and choosing car seats, Renée Martin was struggling with bigger purchases.
At a prenatal class in March, she was told about epidural anesthesia and was given the option of using a birthing tub during labor. To each offer, she had one gnawing question: ''How much is that going to cost?''
Though Ms. Martin, 31, and her husband, Mark Willett, are both professionals with health insurance, her current policy does not cover maternity care. So the couple had to approach the nine months that led to the birth of their daughter in May like an extended shopping trip though the American health care bazaar, sorting through an array of maternity services that most often have no clear price and -- with no insurer to haggle on their behalf -- trying to negotiate discounts from hospitals and doctors.
When she became pregnant, Ms. Martin called her local hospital inquiring about the price of maternity care; the finance office at first said it did not know, and then gave her a range of $4,000 to $45,000. ''It was unreal,'' Ms. Martin said. ''I was like, How could you not know this? You're a hospital.'' 
Midway through her pregnancy, she fought for a deep discount on a $935 bill for an ultrasound, arguing that she had already paid a radiologist $256 to read the scan, which took only 20 minutes of a technician's time using a machine that had been bought years ago. She ended up paying $655. ''I feel like I'm in a used-car lot,'' said Ms. Martin, a former art gallery manager who is starting graduate school in the fall.
Like Ms. Martin, plenty of other pregnant women are getting sticker shock in the United States, where charges for delivery have about tripled since 1996, according to an analysis done for The New York Times by Truven Health Analytics. Childbirth in the United States is uniquely expensive, and maternity and newborn care constitute the single biggest category of hospital payouts for most commercial insurers and state Medicaid programs. The cumulative costs of approximately four million annual births is well over $50 billion.
And though maternity care costs far less in other developed countries than it does in the United States, studies show that their citizens do not have less access to care or to high-tech care during pregnancy than Americans.
''It's not primarily that we get a different bundle of services when we have a baby,'' said Gerard Anderson, an economist at the Johns Hopkins School of Public Health who studies international health costs. ''It's that we pay individually for each service and pay more for the services we receive.''
Those payment incentives for providers also mean that American women with normal pregnancies tend to get more of everything, necessary or not, from blood tests to ultrasound scans, said Katy Kozhimannil, a professor at the University of Minnesota School of Public Health who studies the cost of women's health care.
Financially, they suffer the consequences. In 2011, 62 percent of women in the United States covered by private plans that were not obtained through an employer lacked maternity coverage, like Ms. Martin. But even many women with coverage are feeling the pinch as insurers demand higher co-payments and deductibles and exclude many pregnancy-related services.
From 2004 to 2010, the prices that insurers paid for childbirth -- one of the most universal medical encounters -- rose 49 percent for vaginal births and 41 percent for Caesarean sections in the United States, with average out-of-pocket costs rising fourfold, according to a recent report by Truven that was commissioned by three health care groups. The average total price charged for pregnancy and newborn care was about $30,000 for a vaginal delivery and $50,000 for a C-section, with commercial insurers paying out an average of $18,329 and $27,866, the report found.
Women with insurance pay out of pocket an average of $3,400, according to a survey by Childbirth Connection, one of the groups behind the maternity costs report. Two decades ago, women typically paid nothing other than a small fee if they opted for a private hospital room or television.Only in America
In most other developed countries, comprehensive maternity care is free or cheap for all, considered vital to ensuring the health of future generations.
Ireland, for example, guarantees free maternity care at public hospitals, though women can opt for private deliveries for a fee. The average price spent on a normal vaginal delivery tops out at about $4,000 in Switzerland, France and the Netherlands, where charges are limited through a combination of regulation and price setting; mothers pay little of that cost.
The chasm in price is true even though new mothers in France and elsewhere often remain in the hospital for nearly a week to heal and learn to breast-feed, while American women tend to be discharged a day or two after birth, since insurers do not pay costs for anything that is not considered medically necessary.
Only in the United States is pregnancy generally billed item by item, a practice that has spiraled in the past decade, doctors say. No item is too small. Charges that 20 years ago were lumped together and covered under the general hospital fee are now broken out, leading to more bills and inflated costs. There are separate fees for the delivery room, the birthing tub and each night in a semiprivate hospital room, typically thousands of dollars. Even removing the placenta can be coded as a separate charge.
Each new test is a new source of revenue, from the hundreds of dollars billed for the simple blood typing required before each delivery to the $20 or so for the splash of gentian violet used as a disinfectant on the umbilical cord (Walgreens' price per bottle: $2.59). Obstetricians, who used to do routine tests like ultrasounds in their office as part of their flat fee, now charge for the service or farm out such testing to radiologists, whose rates are far higher.
Add up the bills, and the total is startling. ''We've created incentives that encourage more expensive care, rather than care that is good for the mother,'' said Maureen Corry, the executive director of Childbirth Connection.
In almost all other developed countries, hospitals and doctors receive a flat fee for the care of an expectant mother, and while there are guidelines, women have a broad array of choices. ''There are no bills, and a hospital doesn't get paid for doing specific things,'' said Charlotte Overgaard, an assistant professor of public health at Aalborg University in Denmark. ''If a woman wants acupuncture, an epidural or birth in water, that's what she'll get.''
Despite its lavish spending, the United States has one of the highest rates of both infant and maternal death among industrialized nations, although the fact that poor and uninsured women and those whose insurance does not cover childbirth have trouble getting or paying for prenatal care contributes to those figures.
Some social factors drive up the expenses. Mothers are now older than ever before, and therefore more likely to require or request more expensive prenatal testing. And obstetricians face the highest malpractice risks among physicians and pay hundreds of thousands of dollars a year for insurance, fostering a ''more is safer'' attitude.
But less than 25 percent of America's high payments for pregnancy typically go to obstetricians, and they often charge a flat fee for their nine months of care, no matter how many visits are needed, said Dr. Robert Palmer, the chairman of the committee for health economics and coding at the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. That fee can range from a high of more than $8,000 for a vaginal delivery in Manhattan to under $4,000 in Denver, according to Fair Health, which collects health care data.
Rather it is the piecemeal way Americans pay for this life event that encourages overtreatment and overspending, said Dr. Kozhimannil, the Minnesota professor. Recent studies have found that more than 30 percent of American women have Caesarean sections or have labor induced with drugs -- far higher numbers than those of other developed countries and far above rates that the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists considers necessary.
During the course of her relatively uneventful pregnancy, Ms. Martin was charged one by one for lab tests, scans and emergency room visits that were not included in the doctor's or the hospital's fee. During her seventh month, she described one week's experience: ''I have high glucose, and I tried to take a three-hour test yesterday and threw up all over the lab. So I'm probably going to get charged for that. And my platelets are low, so I'm going to have to see a hematologist. So I'm going to get charged for that.''
She sighed and put her head in her hands. ''Welcome to my world,'' she said.Extras Add Up
Though Ms. Martin has yet to receive her final bills, other couples describe being blindsided by enormous expenses. After discovering that their insurance did not cover pregnancy when the first ultrasound bill was denied last year, Chris Sullivan and his wife, both freelance translators in Pennsylvania, bought a $4,000 pregnancy package from Delaware County Memorial Hospital; a few hospitals around the country are starting to offer such packages to those patients paying themselves.
The couple knew that price did not cover extras like amniocentesis, a test for genetic defects, or an epidural during labor. So when the obstetrician suggested an additional fetal heart scan to check for abnormalities, they were careful to ask about price and got an estimate of $265. Performed by a specialist from the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, it took 30 minutes and showed no problems -- but generated a bill of $2,775.
''All of a sudden I have a bill that's as much as I make in a month, and is more than 10 times what I'd been quoted,'' Mr. Sullivan said. ''I don't know how I could have been a better consumer, I asked for a quote. Then I get this six-part bill.'' After months of disputing the large discrepancy between the estimate and the bill, the hospital honored the estimate.
Mr. Sullivan noted that the couple ended up paying $750 for an epidural, a procedure that has a list price of about $100 in his wife's native Germany.
Even women with the best insurance can still encounter high prices. After her daughter was born five years ago, Dr. Marguerite Duane, 42, was flabbergasted by the line items on the bills, many for blood tests she said were unnecessary and medicines she never received. She and her husband, Dr. Kenneth Lin, both associate professors of family medicine at Georgetown Medical School, had delivered babies in their early years of practice.
So when she became pregnant again in 2011, she decided to be more assertive about holding down costs. After a routine ultrasound scan at 20 weeks showed a healthy baby, she refused to go back for weekly follow-up scans that the radiologist suggested during the last months of her pregnancy even though medical guidelines do not recommend them. When in the hospital for the delivery of her son Ellis in February, she kept a list of every medicine and every item she received.
Though she delivered Ellis with a midwife 12 minutes after arriving at the hospital and was home the next day, the hospital bill alone was more than $6,000, and her insurance co-payment was about $1,500. Her first two pregnancies, both more than five years ago, were fully covered by federal government insurance because her husband worked for the Agency for Health Care Research and Quality.
''Most insurance companies wouldn't blink at my bill, but it was absurd -- it was the least medical delivery in history,'' said Dr. Duane, who is taking a break from practice to stay home with her children. ''There were no meds. I had no anesthesia. He was never in the nursery. I even brought my own heating pad. I tried to get an explanation, but there were items like 'maternity supplies.' What was that? A diaper?''
Ms. Martin is similarly well positioned to be an expert consumer of health care. She administered the health plan for a large art gallery she managed in Los Angeles before marrying and moving to Vermont in 2011 to enroll in a year of pre-med classes at the University of Vermont. She has a scholarship this fall for a master's degree program at Vanderbilt University's Center for Medicine, Health and Society, and then she plans to go on to medical school. Her father-in-law is a pediatrician.
She and her husband, who works for a small music licensing company that does not provide insurance, hoped to start their family during the year they were covered by university insurance in Vermont, she said, but ''nature didn't cooperate.''
Then they moved to the New Hampshire summer resort of Laconia, her husband's hometown, for a year before she started the grind of medical training. But in New Hampshire, they discovered, health insurance they could buy on the individual market did not cover maternity care without the purchase of an additional ''pregnancy rider'' for $800 a month. With their limited finances and unsuccessful efforts at conceiving, it seemed an unwise, if not impossible, investment.
Soon after buying insurance coverage without the rider for $450 a month, Ms. Martin discovered she was pregnant. Her elation was quickly undercut by worry.
''We're not poor. We pay our bills. We have medical insurance. We're not looking for a handout,'' Ms. Martin said, noting that her husband makes too much money for her to qualify for Medicaid or other subsidized programs for low-income women. ''The hospital is doing what it can. Our doctors are taking wonderful care of us. But the economics of this system are a mess.''
Not knowing whether the pregnancy would fall at the $4,000 or $45,000 end of the range the hospital cited, the couple had a hard time budgeting their finances or imagining their future. The hospital promised a 30 percent discount on its final bill. ''I'm trying not to be stressed, but it's really stressful,'' Ms. Martin said as her due date approached.Package Deals
With costs spiraling, some hospitals are starting to offer all-inclusive rates for pregnancy. Maricopa Medical Center, a public hospital in Phoenix, began offering uninsured patients a comprehensive package two years ago. ''Making women choose during labor whether you want to pay $1,000 for an epidural, that didn't seem right,'' said Dr. Dean Coonrod, the hospital's chief of obstetrics and gynecology.
The hospital charges $3,850 for a vaginal delivery, with or without an epidural, and $5,600 for a planned C-section -- prices that include standard hospital, doctors' and testing fees. To set the price, the hospital -- which breaks even on maternity care and whose doctors are on salaries -- calculated the average payment it gets from all insurers. While Dr. Coonrod said the hospital might lose a bit of money, he saw other benefits in a market where everyone will have insurance in just a few years: mothers tend to feel allegiance to the place they give birth to their babies and might seek other care at Maricopa in the future.
The Catalyst for Payment Reform, a California policy group, has proposed that all hospitals should offer such bundled prices and that rates should be the same, no matter the type of delivery. It suggests that $8,000 might be a reasonable starting point. But that may be hard to imagine in markets like New York City, where $8,000 is less than many private doctors charge for their fees alone.
One factor that has helped keep costs down in other developed countries is the extensive use of midwives, who perform the bulk of prenatal examinations and even simple deliveries; obstetricians are regarded as specialists who step in only when there is risk or need. Sixty-eight percent of births are attended by a midwife in Britain and 45 percent in the Netherlands, compared with 8 percent in the United States. In Germany, midwives were paid less than $325 for an 11-hour delivery and about $30 for an office visit in 2011.
Dr. Palmer of the American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists acknowledged the preference for what he called ''medicalized'' deliveries in the United States, with IVs, anesthesia and a proliferation of costly ultrasounds. He said the organization was working to define standards for the scans.
To control costs in the United States, patients may also have to alter their expectations, including the presence of an obstetrician at every prenatal visit and delivery. ''It's amazing how much patients buy into our tendency to do a lot of tests,'' said Eugene Declercq, a professor at Boston University who studies international variations in pregnancy. ''We've met the problem, and it's us.''
Starting next year, insurance policies will be required under the Affordable Care Act to include maternity coverage, so no woman should be left paying entirely on her own, like Ms. Martin. But the law is not explicit about what services must be included in that coverage. ''Exactly what that means is the crux of the issue,'' Dr. Kozhimannil said.
If the high costs of maternity care are not reined in, it could break the bank for many states, which bear the brunt of Medicaid payouts. Medicaid, the federal-state government health insurance program for the poor, pays for more than 40 percent of all births nationally, including more than half of those in Louisiana and Texas. But even Medicaid, whose payments are regarded as so low that many doctors refuse to take patients covered under the program, paid an average of $9,131 for vaginal births and $13,590 for Caesarean deliveries in 2011.
Insured women are still getting the recommended prenatal care, despite rising out-of-pocket costs, according to a recent study. But that does not mean they are not feeling the strain, said Dr. Kozhimannil, the study's lead author. The average amount of savings among pregnant women in the study was $3,000 to $5,000. ''People will find ways to scrape by for medical care for their new baby, but are young mothers taking care of themselves? And what happens when they need to start buying diapers?'' she asked. ''Something's got to give.''
Ms. Martin, who busied herself making toys as her due date neared, could not stop fretting about the potential cost of a complicated delivery. ''I know that a C-section could ruin us financially,'' she said.
On May 25, she had a healthy daughter, Isla Daisy, born by vaginal delivery. Mother and daughter went home two days later.
She and her husband are both overjoyed and tired. And, she said, they are ''dreading'' the bills, which she estimates will be over $32,000 before negotiations begin. Her labor was induced, which required intense monitoring, and she also had an epidural.
''We're bracing for it,'' she said.
Paying Till It Hurts:Articles in this series are examining the high costs of common medical encounters and how they contribute to health care spending in the United States.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''The economics of this system are a mess,'' Renée Martin said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
DR. DEAN COONROD, chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Maricopa Medical Center in Phoenix (PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA SEGALL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DR. MARGUERITE DUANE, who questioned line items on her hospital bill (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14)
RENÉE MARTIN, who with her husband, Mark Willett, is paying for her maternity care out of pocket (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) CHARTS: The Costs of Childbirth: In the United States in 2010, the average charges for medical care surrounding the birth of a child totaled more than $37,000, according to a study by Truven Health Analytics. The charges given here are billed charges. Actual amounts paid by an insurance company, called allowed payments, would generally be less.
Average 2010 U.S. billed charges for each phase of childbirth
AVERAGE 2012 AMOUNT PAID FOR CHILDBIRTH, BY COUNTRY** (Sources: Truven Health Analytics
 International Federation of Health Plans) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (93%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (78%); MEDICAID (78%); MEDICAL ULTRASOUND (78%); HOSPITALS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (76%); INSURANCE (75%); RADIOLOGY (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (75%); HEALTH CARE (74%); COMMERCIAL LINES INSURANCE (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (66%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



18 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Information to be released includes the Institute for Supply Management's report on manufacturing in the United States, China's manufacturing purchasing managers index, the Bank of Japan's second-quarter business conditions survey, euro area unemployment and the Consumer Price Index (Monday); United States factory orders and auto sales, Brazilian industrial production and a report on unemployment in Spain (Tuesday); ADP employment report, initial weekly jobless claims from the Labor Department, trade balance figures and Challenger job cuts in the United States (Wednesday); and the United States jobs report and unemployment rate and Canada jobs report (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report quarterly results include Constellation Brands (Tuesday) and Samsung Electronics (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES: On Monday, a former Advanced Micro Devices worker, Mark Anthony Longoria, is to be sentenced on insider trading charges in New York, and equity markets in the United States close at 1 p.m. Wednesday before the Fourth of July holiday.
OVERSEAS A former Bank of Canada governor, Mark J. Carney, replaces Mervyn A. King as governor of the Bank of England for a five-year term, Croatia becomes the European Union's 28th member and Toyota Motor Corporation introduces new executives in Nagoya (Monday); Tsuyoshi Kikukawa, former chairman of Olympus, and other executives are to be sentenced in an accounting fraud case in Tokyo (Wednesday); the Bank of England monetary policy committee meets in London and the European Central Bank meets in Frankfurt followed by a briefing with Mario Draghi, president of the central bank; Tom Hayes, a former UBS and Citigroup derivatives trader accused of manipulating rates, is to appear in court in London (Thursday).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (92%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EURO (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (79%); EURO ZONE (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); FACTORY ORDERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); LAYOFFS (73%); SENTENCING (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); INSIDER TRADING (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (65%); ACCOUNTING (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (91%); TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (67%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (66%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (56%); CONSTELLATION BRANDS INC (56%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (56%); BANK OF ENGLAND (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (67%); TM (NYSE) (67%); 7203 (TSE) (67%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (56%); AMD (FRA) (56%); STZ (NYSE) (56%); SMSN (LSE) (56%); 005930 (KSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (56%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (56%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); SPAIN (90%); CROATIA (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



19 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1285 words

HEADLINE: Celebrate Summer 2013: Ways to Teach the Season

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: We&#8217;re on vacation this week, but here are 10 ways to celebrate, and learn from, the pleasures of the season. 

 BODY:
The Learning Network is taking a break this week in favor of July joys like fireworks,ice cream and blockbuster movies, and we hope you are, too.
We'll be back with our usual summer content on July 8 - though, of course, our Summer Reading Contest will still run this week. (Post your picks here until Friday, July 5.)
Before we go, though, 10 ideas for celebrating, and learning from, the pleasures of the season. 
 1. What makes summer, summer for you? 
Is it grilling burgers? Going on picnics? Swimming? Going to camp? Taking a road trip? Or it istangoing in a city park or playing baseball like they played it in 1864
Whatever it is, tell us by commenting on this post, or use the articles in the 2010 Summer Rituals series as models for longer essays that explore quintessential summer traditions or pleasures. 
 2. What's unique about summer in the place you live? 
Do tourists come to watch fireflies blink in unison? Probably not - that seems to happen only in Elkmont, Tenn. - but it's likely that you do have special local traditions, like the Fourth of July festivities in this New Jersey town, or a beach, lake or pool where everyone gathers in the way generations of New Yorkers have gone to Coney Island. You probably even have a dangerous summer rite of passage in your area that every child you know has participated in at least once.
For many on the Eastern seaboard, the lingering effects of Hurricane Sandy have upended traditions old and new this summer, even as the region recovers.
Consider writing an essay like this one about what a particular summer place means to you and your family or friends. Or, create a video like
this that highlights 36 seconds of the season this year, wherever you find yourself.
 3. What are you reading this summer - either because you want to or because you have to? 
What's on your reading list this summer? What are your best memories of summer reading? Beach books count, of course, and so do audiobooks and comic books. 
 In "What I Read That Summer," the Book Review asked authors like Junot Diaz, Louise Erdrich and Pico Iyer to recall one summer-reading experience. You might use those short essays as models for an essay of your own. 
And we know you haven't forgotten about our Summer Reading Contest, which runs through Aug. 16. Tell us what you found most interesting in The Times each week and why, and you might be one of our weekly winners.
 4. Hot enough for you? 
In 2010, on a particularly steamy day in July, we created a page called Teaching the Heat Wave: Games, Lessons and More. Use that, or this page, to investigate the science of summer.
You can also search The Times using the words "heat" or "temperature" to find interesting leads for learning. For example, how can children playing sports in the summer stay safe in the heat? Why have we "lucked out in recent years when it comes to global warming"?How do birds keep their chicks hydrated? Should air conditioning be a goal for everyone in the world, or is it an unsustainable luxury? Why do we call them "heat waves"?
 5. What would your ideal summer camp be like? 
There's a summer camp out there for everyone, whether you're a foodie, a feminist or a fashionista, a coder, an explosives-enthusiast or an occupier of Wall Street.
What would your ideal summer camp be like? Would it be a sleep-away camp, or a day camp? Would it be centered around an issue or a particular activity, or would there be a variety of activities? Where would it be located? What would the food, sleeping quarters, and physical location be like? Why?
 6. What are your favorite summer sports and games? 
Maybe summer for you means sports, either the kind you play yourself or the kind you watch from the stands. If so, the Times Sports section can connect you to the latest on everything from baseball and tennis to cricket and auto racing.
Or maybe you like games you can play in air-conditioned comfort. You might be surprised to learn that The Times has an entire video games section with news and reviews, as well as a puzzles page with crosswords, Sudoku, Ken Ken or Set.
And if you think you're up to the challenge, you can also play rock-paper-scissors against a computer. 
 7. Are you résumé-building this summer? 
Do you have a paying job this summer? With the economy still recovering slowly, probably not. Maybe, instead, you have an unpaid internship - possibly even a virtual one. If so, you might want to consider where you stand on the questions of whether unpaid internships exploit students.
If you're searching for something productive to do, maybe you'll be inspired by these ambitious teenagers, including Cameron Stephens of Atlanta, Ga. who, in order to get a job in 2011, just worked until someone noticed. ( Update: If you'd like more inspiration, here are"The Summer Jobs of 14 Future U.S. Presidents" from Mental Floss.)
Or, perhaps you're just planning to get ahead on your college search. Here are 28 summer reading suggestions from college admission experts, and here is the Choice blog's "counselor's calendar" with tips for what to do in July if you're a rising senior or a rising junior. 
 8. What journeys will you take? 
Are you traveling this summer? Or are you just hanging out, creatively using unstructured time? Where would you go if you could take a fantasy road trip? Should you get off the grid, or is it O.K. to be plugged in? 
Use The Times's annual Best Places to Go in 2013 list, or just browse recent articles in the travel section like these about water parks, a "Top Chef" cruise, surfing in Japan or visiting Gettysburg on the 150th anniversary of the battle. 
You could also look at the wonderful reader-submission series "Why We Travel." There you can learn about places to get a fish pedicure,bungee jump or sand surf. 
What photo and story from your own travels, near or far, would you submit?
 9. What summer shows are you looking forward to? 
What summer movies have you already seen, and which are you looking forward to seeing? Which movies were overhyped this season, and which ones deserved a bigger audience? What are the elements of a perfect summer blockbuster
Or maybe it's live music summer television shows or theatrical performances that appeal to you most. What's are the ingredients for a perfect summer show, in your opinion? Why?
 10. What's your "song of summer"? 
What's your vote for the 2013 song of summer? Maybe this one
As a 1995 article put it, "During the 40 years since rock-and-roll first altered the course of pop music, a soulful summer tradition has emerged. Each year, one song separates itself from the pack, exercising a deep, calling-out power over anyone who falls in love between June and September." In 2007, another article explored a similar idea, debating whether Rihanna's "Umbrella" would beat out Sean Kingston's "Beautiful Girls" to become that summer's song. 
In 2010, The Times asked some Brooklyn residents to name their favorite summer song of all time and got these answers. 
We like the concept of the "summer song" so much that we created a whole lesson plan around it in which you're invited to create a playlist of summer songs. What would be on yours?
 Update: July 411. Do You Know These Fun Facts About the Fourth of July? 
What's your favorite moment in this video of "little-known facts"? What surprising facts can you compile about a topic you care about, and how might you display them? Make your own video using this one as a model, or consider creating an infographic - perhaps using one of these 46 tools.
 Teachers: Feel free to bring your students to answer any or all the questions in this post in the comments section below. Remember, though that for privacy reasons we ask that students not post last names.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (78%); FILM (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (74%); WEATHER (72%); BASEBALL (71%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); HURRICANES (66%); WRITERS (64%); HURRICANE SANDY (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (70%); NEW JERSEY, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



20 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1874 words

HEADLINE: Deal Talk in Cable TV

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: John C. Malone of Liberty Media is said to be weighing a deal for Time Warner Cable. | Criminal defense work, once shunned by top law firms, is looking increasingly lucrative. | Onyx Pharmaceuticals put itself up for sale after rejecting an unsolicited $10 billion takeover bid. | An updated analysis shows C.E.O.&#8217;s got a large raise last year. 

 BODY:
John C. Malone, chairman of Liberty Media, who made his name through shrewd deal-making in the telecommunications industry, "is weighing a deal for Time Warner Cable, according to people briefed on the matter who were not authorized to speak publicly," Michael J. de la Merced and Brian Stelter report in DealBook. "In this deal, Charter Communications, a cable operator in which Liberty owns a 27 percent stake, would buy Time Warner Cable. Should he reach a deal, he will most likely use the combined company to roll up other cable operators, upending a status quo dominated by giants like Comcast."
"Those possibilities are helping to build expectations for deals in an industry that investors and some analysts think is ready for more," DealBook writes. "Investors and analysts have speculated about transactions involving Cablevision and the privately held Cox Communications, as well as the satellite TV providers Dish Network and DirecTV." 
A CRIMINAL DEFENSE MERGER | Criminal defense work, once shunned by most of New York's top law firms, is looking increasingly lucrative. One of the lawyers specializing in representing the accused, Charles A. Stillman, is announcing on Monday that his firm, Stillman & Friedman, has combined with Ballard Spahr, an old-line Philadelphia firm looking to enter the New York market and expand its criminal defense practice, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. Ballard's New York office will be called Ballard Spahr Stillman & Friedman.
"The combination speaks to a shift that has taken place over decades, of corporate firms making a core business line out of white-collar work, including conducting internal investigations, handling foreign-bribery cases and representing executives in a number of scandals. As firms struggle to increase revenue, they realize that representing business people behaving badly is good for the bottom line," Mr. Lattman writes. Mark S. Stewart, chairman of Ballard Spahr, said Stillman & Friedman was "a perfect fit."
ONYX ON THE BLOCK | 
Onyx Pharmaceuticals put itself up for sale on Sunday, after rejecting an unsolicited $10 billion takeover bid by the biotechnology giant Amgen last week as too low, Mr. de la Merced and Andrew Pollack report in DealBook. Amgen had proposed paying $120 a share in cash, 38 percent above Onyx's closing price on Friday, Onyx said in a statement, adding that it had hired the investment bank Centerview Partners to contact possible suitors.
"It has already been in touch with a number of potential buyers, according to a person briefed on the matter," DealBook writes. Onyx, which makes biopharmaceutical drugs, formally rejected Amgen's approach on Friday afternoon, and the company's shares began rising in after-hours trading soon afterward. "A sale of Onyx, based in California, would be the latest deal in the health care industry, one of the busiest for mergers and acquisitions in recent years."
ON THE AGENDA | Stocks in Asia fell slightly on Monday, on fears about the Federal Reserve and an economic slowdown in China. The ISM manufacturing index for June is out at 10 a.m. Data on construction spending in May is out at 10 a.m.
RELENTLESS CLIMB IN C.E.O. PAY | An updated analysis shows that "the top 200 chief executives at public companies with at least $1 billion in revenue actually got a big raise last year, over all. The research, conducted for Sunday Business by Equilar Inc., the executive compensation analysis firm, found that the median 2012 pay package came in at $15.1 million - a leap of 16 percent from 2011," Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. "So much for the idea that shareholders were finally getting through to corporate boards on the topic of reining in pay."
For retiring chief executives, the rewards can be rich. "In 2012, the biggest package went to James J. Mulva, who stepped down as C.E.O. of ConocoPhillips after 10 years, according to an analysis by Equilar of the 10 largest exit packages. His total: about $156 million. As with all C.E.O.'s on the list, his exit sum is on top of salary, bonus and other compensation received while working for the company," Pradnya Joshi writes in The New York Times.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions
Nokia to Buy Control of Joint Venture for $2.2 Billion | Nokia has agreed to buy Siemens's half of a telecommunications equipment joint venture for about $2.2 billion, as Nokia continues to struggle with challenges in its cellphone business. DealBook »
2 Oligarchs Returning to Global Energy Market | The Russian billionaires Mikhail Fridman and German Khan have surrounded themselves with some highly regarded global executives to help them invest in the international energy market. DealBook »
Auction of VDM Said to Attract Private Equity Bidders | Firms including Apollo Global Management have shown preliminary interest in VDM, the high-performance alloys business being sold by Outokumpu, a Finnish producer of stainless steel, a German newspaper reported, according to Reuters. REUTERS
Dell's Overseas Cash Presents a Puzzle | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Irish Banker Expresses Regret Over Taped Remarks | "I cannot change this now, but I can apologize to those who had to listen to it and who were understandably so offended by it," David Drumm, former chief executive of Anglo Irish Bank, told The Sunday Business Post after the emergence of tape-recorded comments in which he appeared to make light of the bank's bailout, according to Reuters. REUTERS
When the Bond Market Went South | "A bull market in bonds is a little like youth: you take it for granted and don't appreciate it until it's gone," Nick Paumgarten writes in The New Yorker. NEW YORKER
Krawcheck on Life After Wall Street | "People say to me, 'Has being a woman helped or hindered your career?' And the answer is yes," Sallie L. Krawcheck, the former big bank executive who recently bought the women's network 85 Broads, tells New York magazine. NEW YORK
Bank of America Hires Financial Services Banker From Moelis | Bank of America Merrill Lynch has hired John Binnie, a veteran financial services banker, as a vice chairman of its global financial institutions group, according to an internal bank memorandum. DealBook »
Bank of America in India | Bank of America has opened an office in Bangalore, India, to review appraisals of American homes, Bloomberg News reports, citing four people with knowledge of the move. The move, Bloomberg says, is part of the bank's effort "to rebuild share in U.S. mortgages at a lower cost." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Former Barclays Chief Hits the Red Carpet | Robert E. Diamond Jr., the former Barclays chief executive, was spotted at a fund-raising event at the Savoy Hotel in central London, one of the few times he had been seen in public in Britain since he stepped down last year. Dressed in a tuxedo, Mr. Diamond joined other "B-list celebrities," according to The Daily Mail, at the fund-raiser for disadvantaged young people in London. DAILY MAIL
PRIVATE EQUITY
Private Equity Bidders for Soft Drink Brands | The Blackstone Group and Lion Capital "have teamed up to make a formal bid worth more than a billion pounds for Lucozade and Ribena, the two soft drink brands put up for sale by drugmaker GlaxoSmithKline, Sky News reported on Sunday," according to Reuters. REUTERS
Sun Capital Sells Parent of American Standard Brands | An affiliate of Sun Capital Partners, the private equity firm co-founded by Marc J. Leder, sold ASD Americas Holding, the parent company of American Standard Brands, to the Lixil Corporation of Japan at an enterprise value of $542 million. Based in New Jersey, American Standard makes the popular brand of kitchen and bath fixtures. DealBook »
HEDGE FUNDS 
A Quant's Aggressive Tax Strategy | Bloomberg News reports: "James H. Simons, who became a billionaire when he turned his extraordinary mathematical ability from defense work to investing, has deployed an unusual strategy at Renaissance Technologies L.L.C. to skirt hundreds of millions of dollars in taxes for himself and other investors, said people with knowledge of the matter." BLOOMBERG NEWS
Drop in Gold Weighs on Greenlight Capital | Reuters reports: "Investors in David Einhorn's Greenlight Capital Management's offshore gold fund were down 11.8 percent in June, bringing their year-to-date losses in the fund to 20 percent, two sources close to the matter said on Sunday." REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS
Noodles Prove Irresistible in Tough Week for I.P.O.'s | Shares in Noodles & Company, a fast-casual restaurant chain, doubled their initial public offering price by midafternoon on Friday, at $36.15. DealBook »
Chinese Banks' Plans for Listing in Hong Kong Are Delayed | 
FINANCIAL TIMES
Zuckerberg Leads Facebook Employees in Gay Pride Parade | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL
Detroit Seeks App Builders | Detroit is suddenly hungry for "software developers and information technology specialists who can create applications for the next generation of connected vehicles," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Altair Semiconductor Raises $25 Million | 
ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
To Get Your Wages, Pay a Fee | For a growing number of hourly workers, "paper paychecks and even direct deposit have been replaced by prepaid cards issued by their employers. Employees can use these cards, which work like debit cards, at an A.T.M. to withdraw their pay," The New York Times reports. "But in the overwhelming majority of cases, using the card involves a fee." NEW YORK TIMES
Japan's Prime Minister on His Plans for Growth | "Deflation must be rooted out in one fell swoop, through bold and practical new monetary and fiscal policies, implemented simultaneously," Shinzo Abe, the prime minister of Japan, writes in a post on LinkedIn. LINKEDIN
Canadian Steps In to Lead Bank of England | Mark J. Carney is stepping into the Bank of England's palatial home on Threadneedle Street to take on one of the biggest roles in the future of Britain's economy and banking sector, Julia Werdigier and Landon Thomas Jr. report in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
Cohen Declines to Testify in SAC Insider Case | Steven A. Cohen has declined to testify before a grand jury, raising the stakes in the government's long-running investigation of possible insider trading at his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors. DealBook »
British Government Takes Step in Selling Stakes of Bailed-Out Banks | UK Financial Investments, the organization that manages the British government's stakes in the Royal Bank of Scotland and the Lloyds Banking Group, is soliciting investment banks to make their pitches to help sell the holdings. DealBook »
Arrest Leaves New Blot on Vatican Bank | "Claiming to have foiled a caper worthy of Hollywood, or at least Cinecittà, the Italian police on Friday arrested a prelate and two others on corruption charges, saying that the priest plotted last summer to help wealthy friends sneak the money, the equivalent of about $26 million, into Italy while evading financial controls," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); MERGERS (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%); HEALTH CARE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); HEALTH CARE (67%); BRIBERY (67%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (66%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (63%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: BALLARD SPAHR LLP (92%); AMGEN INC (82%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (58%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); DISH NETWORK CORP (58%); COX COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (52%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (82%); TWC (NYSE) (58%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (58%); DISH (NASDAQ) (58%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



21 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Steinway Sold to Private Equity Firm for $438 Million

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Steinway Musical Instruments agreed to be acquired by the private equity firm Kohlberg &#038; Company for $35 a share. 

 BODY:
 2:49 p.m. | Updated 
The maker of Steinway & Sons pianos is hoping that a duet with private equity will be a harmonious one.
Steinway Musical Instruments announced on Monday that it had agreed to be acquired by the private equity firm Kohlberg & Company in a deal worth roughly $438 million. 
The offer of $35 a share represents a 33 percent premium over Steinway's average closing price in the 90 trading days that ended June 28. Compared with the average closing price during the 52 weeks that ended June 28, the offer represents a premium of 45 percent, the company said.
Steinway's stock jumped at the start of trading on Monday, rising more than 15 percent, to just above $35 a share. (The company's ticker symbol, LVB, is a reference to the initials of Ludwig van Beethoven.)
The deal is the latest twist for the 160-year-old piano maker, whose instruments can be found in concert halls and living rooms around the world. In recent years, the company, which is based in Waltham, Mass., has had to adjust to a weak economy and changing cultural tastes.
In March, the company reached an agreement to sell Steinway Hall, the 88-year-old building across the street from Carnegie Hall in Manhattan where renowned pianists and amateurs alike have tried out pianos.
Kohlberg & Company, a firm co-founded by Jerome Kohlberg (who previously was one of the founders of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company), emphasized that it would aim to preserve Steinway's storied heritage.
In buying Steinway, the firm plans to "accelerate its global expansion, while ensuring the artisanal manufacturing processes that make the company's products unique are preserved, celebrated and treasured," Christopher W. Anderson, a Kohlberg & Company partner, said in a statement.
The company, founded in 1853 in a Manhattan loft by Henry Engelhard Steinway and his three sons, expanded rapidly to become the world's largest piano manufacturer by 1860. It opened a factory in Hamburg, Germany, in 1880, and toasted its success in 1925 with the opening of Steinway Hall on West 57th Street in New York.
The company was acquired by Selmer Industries in 1995 and, under the name Steinway Musical Instruments, went public the following year. In addition to its flagship pianos, the company sells trumpets, saxophones, French horns, drums and other instruments. It has long had a factory in Astoria, Queens; after years of being a tenant there, it bought back the building in 1999.
"Our agreement with Kohlberg represents an exceptional valuation for our shareholders, while also representing an important next step in the growth of Steinway," Michael Sweeney, chairman and interim chief executive of Steinway, said in a statement. "We are delighted that they recognize the bright future for Steinway as well as value our great heritage."
The deal provides for a so-called go-shop period of 45 days in which Steinway can invite rival bids. Otherwise, the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of this year.
Steinway is being advised bey Allen & Company and the law firms Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. Kohlberg & Company is being advised by the law firm Ropes & Gray.

        
Private Equity Finding Exits Easier Than Buyouts
        
Home Depot Outflips Private Equity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (93%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (93%); PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); MUSIC (91%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); ACQUISITIONS (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Kohlberg & Co; Kohlberg, Jerome; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Pianos; Private Equity; Steinway & Sons; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: KOHLBERG & CO LLC (93%); STEINWAY MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS INC (92%); KKR & CO LP (66%); STEINWAY & SONS (58%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Kohlberg & Co; Steinway & Sons

TICKER: LVB (NYSE) (92%); KKR (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (93%); NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3931 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: Kohlberg, Jerome

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (75%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



22 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Full Employment: The Big Missing Piece

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Despite signs of economic strength in several sectors, demand for labor remains sluggish, and that&#8217;s an especially big problem for low- and middle-income workers, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
While some important parts of the current economy are showing strength - housing, energy extraction, corporate profitability - demand for labor, or "job creation" if you prefer, remains weak. That's a huge problem because most of us depend on our paychecks, not our stock portfolios, so the fact that there's still about 12 million unemployed (including four million who've been jobless for over half a year) in addition to about eight million involuntary part-timers (who want more hours, and can't find them) should give one pause before declaring all clear on the economic front. 
Weak labor demand plays an integral role in these outcomes, but too much of the rhetoric I've been hearing lately ignores that reality. In the immigration debate - and I'm a longtime active supporter of comprehensive reform - advocates in both parties argue that there are lots of job slots waiting to be filled, if only we had greater labor supply. This claim is most commonly made regarding high-skilled workers, like programmers, but one advocate recently wrote a commentary arguing that we also face a shortage of low-wage workers. Anyone with even cursory knowledge of employment or especially wage trends among such workers knows that this is not a credible claim.
It's even worse over in the poverty debate, where contentions about the safety net, a topic I wrote about last week, suggest that the jobs are there for the taking if only SNAP (food stamps) and other benefits weren't removing the incentives for low-income people to look for work. (The Southerland amendment to the farm bill, a key reason the bill failed in the House, was very much written in this spirit.)
The extent to which such claims are misguided came back to me as I was working with some new data on the importance of strong labor demand, particularly to low- and middle-income workers. The data are simply the annual hours of work by income group over the last few decades, with households split into fifths by income, from the poorest to the wealthiest 20 percent, or quintile (e.g., "Q1" in the figure below represents the lowest-income quintile).
The trends reveal the disproportionate impact of strong labor demand on low relative to high income workers. Basically, using the economic model introduced in "Field of Dreams," it's an "if the jobs are there, they will come" story, which is decidedly different than "if they come, the jobs will be there" (economists will recognize the latter as Say's Law).
A simple statistical model of the relationship between annual hours and unemployment shows that since the mid-1970s, for every point the unemployment rate falls, annual hours of work go up by 3.7 percent for low-income workers from the bottom fifth of the income scale, 1.7 percent (about half as much) for middle-income workers, and 0.8 percent (half as much again) for high-income workers.
But these are broad historical averages. During the late 1990s, the last time the United States economy was at full employment, low-income workers were remarkably responsive to strong labor demand. Between 1996 and 2000, for each point the unemployment rate fell, their hours of work rose more than 10 percent.
The figure below provides some historical context. The first three bars for each income group shows the percentage change in annual hours worked over the last four years of the last three recoveries - if the recovery is going to reach full employment, that's when it will do so. The fourth bar in each set shows the most recent years of data, tracking the hours impact of the Great Recession.
The first thing to notice is how much more responsive the trends are for lower relative to higher-income households: they go up more in good times and fall further in bad ones. That doesn't imply the rich are lazier. To the contrary, it's because they're already maxed out on hours worked and their jobs tend to be much more insulated from changing demand conditions.
The second thing to notice is how much the 1990s recovery stands out. There was a lot going on in those years - more on that in a moment - but the main factor was full employment: the demand for low-wage work in particular was stronger than it has been for years before or since. Their average annual hours rose 17 percent, 1996-2000, amounting to almost three more weeks of full-time work.
Third, the 2000s were a uniquely weak period of labor demand. Employment growth in those years was the worst on record, with data going back to the 1940s. One is tempted to tell a failed supply-side economics story, but the Reagan years, which look good by this measurement, especially for middle-income families, complicate that explanation (the George W. Bush economics regime hewed much closer to trickle-down theory than did the Reagan team - taxes were actually raised numerous times in the Reagan years).
Finally, the benefits of full employment to the least advantaged are perhaps most clearly shown by the counterexample of the great crash, which slammed low- and middle-income families relative to the wealthy.
What other factors besides full employment, then, were in play in the 1990s? For one, welfare reform pushed a lot of single mothers into work, a factor much more conducive to the "if they come, the jobs will be there" view that I dismissed above. But careful research finds that welfare reform explains less than 15 percent of the increase in work among low-income single mothers, who themselves represent less than 20 percent of the bottom fifth in the figure shown above. That's not nothing, but it's a relatively small part of the story. Moreover, work-based welfare reform was there in the 2000s too, and that period doesn't look so good.
Opponents of immigration reform should also note that while the 1990s was a period of strong immigrant flows of low-skilled workers, increased labor demand handily absorbed those flows.
I suspect that most objective observers will agree that full employment - strong labor demand, substantial job creation - is a (I'd say "the") key economic, social, and poverty policy that's missing from the current agenda.
So how do we get there? Stay tuned...
 (The findings discussed above are from a coming book on the importance of full employment, written with Dean Baker.) 

        
Long-Term Jobless: Still a Bleak Picture
        
Much Ado About ... Well, Maybe Not Much
        
This Time, Economy Is Overshadowed
        
For the Markets, a Steady Outlook
        
Manufacturing Still Looks O.K.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORKFORCE DEMAND (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); EMPLOYMENT TRENDS (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); IMMIGRATION (53%) Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Economy; Working Hours; Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



23 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: Investment Plans and Forecasts Don't Mix

BYLINE: CARL RICHARDS


HIGHLIGHT: Instead of relying on forecasts s to dictate our financial decisions, Carl Richards suggests focusing on investing basics. 

 BODY:
 Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His book, "The Behavior Gap," was published this year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog. 
"I know you can't time the market. But in your view, where is the market going?"
I still get this question from people, at event after event, even after people have heard me talk about the importance of behavior and how we can't predict short-term market performance.
During a recent trip to South Africa, I got even more specific questions:

        
Where is the United States economy headed?
        
Where are interest rates headed?
        
Is now a good time to invest in Japan?
        
Is the housing recovery for real?
Here's the thing: I totally understand why people are asking questions about timing. First, there's an assumption that having an opinion - whether it's about the market, the economy, or Japan - makes someone look smart. Being able to talk about these subjects must mean you have more money and your investments do better, right?
Not true.
Second, if you don't talk about sports or politics that only leaves economic issues (Again, not true. It just feels that way). Now maybe you like to talk about all three, but it's reached the point where talking about the economy and markets is an official spectator sport. We all feel capable of playing.
And while it may be fun to chat about what the market might do next at your neighborhood barbeque, don't kid yourself. What we know about the market comes down to a bunch of guesses, also known as forecasts.
Forecasts about the future of the market are very likely to be wrong, and we don't know by how much and in which direction. So why would we use these guesses to make incredibly important decisions about our money?
That's right. You shouldn't because you know better, and relying on what's really just a hunch is an all but guaranteed recipe for financial pain.
Instead of relying on guesses to dictate our financial decisions, we need to focus on the investing basics:

        
Figure out where you are today
        
Make a guess about where you want to go
        
Buy diversified, low-cost investments that have the best shot of getting there
        
Behave for a long time
Obviously, this list isn't nearly as interesting as speculating about whether the Dow will break 16,000 before the end of the year. But it is a list that will keep you from doing something dumb, like thinking it's a good idea to bet your portfolio on a guess.
So, just in case I've left you in doubt, please don't forget: Plans and guesses don't mix!

        
Market Forecasting Isn't Like the Weather
        
Avoiding the Easy Trap of Buying High
        
Challenge What You Think You Know
        
The Perils of Investing in What You Know
        
Deciding Whether to Dip a Toe in the Market

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); TRENDS (77%); BONDS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INTEREST RATES (54%) Economic Conditions and Trends; Personal Finances; Stocks and Bonds

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



24 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: You Had Me at 'Bigger Alligators': Times Readers Pitch Summer Blockbusters

BYLINE: JEREMY EGNER


HIGHLIGHT: Karate teamwork, deutronium bombs and Nicolas Cage: Times readers share their best summer movie ideas. 

 BODY:
In a feature for this week's Arts & Leisure section, The Times's Brooks Barnes examined the inner-workings of Hollywood's blockbuster factory by asking a team of insiders to diagnose the potential problems of a fake summer film, "Red, White & Blood." (No one objected to the title, at least.)
We asked Times readers to come up with their own blockbuster pitches, and they didn't disappoint. While some kept it short and sweet - "Faster cars, younger women and bigger alligators," drsophila wrote - or overly stretched the bounds of believability - lydgate proposed a remake of "Liar, Liar" in which "all public figures have to tell the truth every time they open their mouths" - quite a few came up with films that seem destined for a multiplex near you.
We've posted some of the best below, broken down by genre. Let us know your favorites in the comments. (You can also find the rest of them here.) Note to film executives: the work below remains the intellectual property of the authors but we wouldn't say no to a couple points on the back end as a finder's fee. 
 ACTION 
Twin brothers (both played by Channing Tatum), one a C.I.A. operative, the other an international criminal. C.I.A. Tatum suspects Criminal Tatum of participating in a terrorist plot to blow stuff up (N.Y.S.E. in N.Y., the Capitol in D.C., Grauman's Chinese Theater in L.A.). Cue explosions, ridiculous weaponry, and a final plot twist wherein Criminal Tatum helps thwart the plot and dies saving everything, except Grauman's. (There's still one Tatum left for the sequel.) - EC, New York, N.Y.
Think "Bourne Identity," but as an origin story for a character from the Marvel universe (Paladin?). He's a super-smart country boy who joins the Army to fight terrorists (cue battlefield flashbacks). Cut to him in a super-soldier training program. As his missions become morally questionable, he quits and becomes a mercenary (show daring missions). His former handlers capture his childhood sweetheart and the climactic scene is him breaking her out of a secret underwater compound. -Nate, CA
Young, hip Silicon Valley hotshots are recruited by the U.S. government to combat a secretive terrorist group set on starting a war between America and China by hacking public infrastructure. They are paired with a jaded-with-a-heart-of-gold Afghanistan Navy SEAL vet as power grids fail, dams break, and nuclear weapons are on the verge of being launched. Old-fashioned low-tech gumption and teamwork save the day. - Chris, SF
 FAMILY 
"Harry Potter" + "Jurassic Park" + "Willy Wonka": A poor orphan (some kid) is one of eight children to win a special sneak peak of the world's first Magical Creature Zoo. He quickly befriends the eccentric park owner (Ben Stiller), a cute girl in the group and creatures on display. A business rival (Christoph Waltz) causes an accident resulting in the creatures running amok. The orphan must put the park back in order and save the cute girl. - Tyler W, NYC
 ROM-COM 
Title: "The Wedding Critic[#x2028]"
Tagline: Everyone's a critic, especially when it comes to love.
[#x2028]Think "Sex and the City" meets "The Wedding Crashers." [#x2028][#x2028]Tom Connolly's seven sisters taught him everything about weddings, including that he never wanted his own. But when his experience lands him a gig writing restaurant-style wedding reviews for a major paper, he skewers one after another until attending a young couple's wedding where the groom has a terminal disease. Realizing that the paper's wedding photographer is the love of his life, he pulls out all the stops to win her hand. - Rian Sheehan, Fayetteville, Ark.
 SCI-FI 
It's like "The Warriors," but set in prehistoric times. A group of early humans is separated from their tribe and must fight their way through monstrous ancient creatures and Neanderthals to get home. Whole thing is related vérité style by a group of time-traveling researchers. Twist at the end: the researchers are from the past and the prehistorical setting turns out to be Earth's distant future. - michaelB, Brooklyn
[#x2028][#x2028]Title: "78.5 Minutes"
[#x2028][#x2028]Hydraulic fracking for natural gas is causing progressively larger and more special-effect filled earthquakes. The president takes to YouTube to tell us the truth: The earth is now actually splitting into two halves, which will hurtle off in space in 78.5 minutes. The president decides to use the deutronium bomb - a cold-fusion device which will freeze the world's oceans - thus holding the planet together for a sequel. But an evil Texas oil magnate won't have it. On board Air Force One, he goes mano a mano with the president... while the deutronium bomb rolls around in the cargo container. - Byrd, Orange County, Calif.
 ZOMBIES 
Title: "Wise-Zombies"[#x2028]
Tag-Line: You'll believe a man can shamble.[#x2028]
Pitch: Three wise-cracking tough guys (Robert DeNiro, Al Pacino, and Steve Buscemi) find they're out of luck when they get bitten during the zombie apocalypse. Flash-forward six months as these shambling nobodies find out there's a cure for zombieism being held in a highly-protected government base. Cue heist. Cue explosions. Cue profit. - Billy Peery, Fla.
Title: "Brain Dead"[#x2028][#x2028]
Unemployed young people wandering endlessly around convention center job fairs decide to turn themselves into zombies. That way, their food is free, and no one cares they don't have careers. Anna Kendrick plays the government liaison for the newly undead and provides them "job training," helping them establish socially acceptable means of feeding and hygiene so that zombies and humans may live in harmony. The catch? She falls in love with one of the voluntarily deceased and decides to throw away her bureaucratic fantasy of a life to join her partner in undead bliss. The End. - S.A., Kansas
 WHATEVER THIS IS 
Title: "Thunderous Roar"[#x2028][#x2028]
SoCal karate instructors of varying ethnicities get stranded on a remote South Pacific island in a cruise-ship wreck. We discover a maniacal hermit (Nic Cage) has been causing shipwrecks to find gorgeous women, while killing the men. After he collects 1,000 women in an giant pit, he will fill it with bronze to create the world's largest bas-relief sculpture. Our heroes must use karate teamwork to save the women and cruise-ship them to safety. Check please. - Marc, New York

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (86%); TERRORISM (86%); WRITERS (75%); ARMIES (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); COUNTERTERRORISM (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (67%); MARTIAL ARTS (66%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (52%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (51%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (50%) featured; Movies

PERSON: NICOLAS CAGE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (68%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



25 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: The Media, Immigration and G.O.P. Donorism

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: On immigration reform, the press discovers a strange new respect for right-wing billionaires. 

 BODY:
As long as I'm playing the media critic on social-issues coverage, this piece last week from the Washington Post's Chris Cillizza and Sean Sullivan offered a fascinating example of how the press covers the role of money in the immigration debate:
The Republican party faces a dilemma. The Senate - with the help of 14 Republicans - passed an immigration reform plan on Thursday. The Republican-controlled House has pledged not to even take that proposal up, opting instead for the possibility of their own plan later this summer or sometime this fall. 
One voice lost in this battle over what the right, next move is on immigration for the party? The major donors of the party who serve as the bundlers of presidential campaigns and the funders of super PACs. And, those big check-writers have a very clear preference: They want a deal done.
The piece goes on to describe the party's "big check-writers" as natural "pragmatists" who are "trying to move the party forward - and more toward the ideological center." It lets Fred Malek and Steven Law of America's Crossroads characterize these check-writers' motives (they "recognize that our Republican Party is seen by many as intolerant," says Malek; they worry that the G.O.P "is starting to seem out of touch in an increasingly diverse and dynamic America" says Law) and then echoes that characterization without even gesturing at the other obvious reasons why extremely rich C-title types might support a bill designed to welcome more low-wage labor to the United States. It even contrasts the alleged pragmatism of these forward-looking right-wing rich people favorably with the less politically savvy habits of Democratic donors, who are mostly "motivated by ideology."
The whole thing makes particularly fascinating reading when you compare it to the way that Republican billionaires and bundlers are generally treated by the press: As a cynical, self-interested lot whose ruthless quest for political quid pro quos contrasts with the high-minded principle of Democratic check-writers and bundlers, who supposedly give without asking for anything in return. If that treatment, common to just about every piece ever written about the Koch brothers or Sheldon Adelson, is far too kind to the liberal rich and far too cynical about conservative motivations, then the media's coverage of the immigration debate tend to swing to the opposite extreme: It's absurdly credulous about how the rich and powerful inside the G.O.P. tent are supporting comprehensive immigration reform for purely selfless reasons, because it's the only way to save the party from the yahoos, and displays little of the "follow the money" skepticism that you would normally expect from the press when there's a united corporate front on one side of a given debate.
This isn't to say that what I've termed the "donorist" perspective on the Republican Party's situation is actually purely cynical, or deserves to be covered that way. The pro-business, pro-immigration socially liberal perspective of the party's elite donors is as sincerely held as any other perspective in our politics. But as is so often the case with people who spend heavily on elections, whether they're Wall Street conservatives or Hollywood liberals, that worldview does happen to coincide pretty neatly with the economic interests of the people who hold it. And the fact that many journalists are more sympathetic to immigration reform than they are to other causes back by the Kochs and Adelsons of the world is not a good reason to write about the immigration debate as though those interests don't exist.

        
What Is Reform Conservatism?
        
When Congress Abdicates
        
What Conservative Reformers Don't Like About Immigration Reform
        
Immigration Reform and the Lessons of 2012
        
The Republican Party's "Donorism" Problem

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); WRITERS (88%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%) Adelson, Sheldon G; Immigration and Emigration; Koch, Charles G; Political Action Committees; Republican Party; United States Politics and Government

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: Adelson, Sheldon G; Koch, Charles G

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



26 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 282 words

HEADLINE: America's New Mothers Among the Youngest

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: In the United States in 2009, the average age for a mother who just had her first child was 25; among developed countries surveyed, only Mexico had a lower age at first childbirth. 

 BODY:
While digging through the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development's annual education report last week, I came across this fascinating chart:
It shows that across the developed world, women have been waiting longer to have their first child. The average age of first childbirth was 24.3 in 1970 compared to 27.8 in 2009, the most recent year for which comparable international data are available. That's not a huge surprise; as more women have entered the labor force, many have delayed child-rearing. 
More striking, at least to me, is how young new mothers are in the United States versus the rest of the developed world. In the United States in 2009, the average age for a mother who just had her first child was 25; only Mexico had a lower age at first childbirth, 21.3.
On the other end of the spectrum are Germany and Britain, where average age at first childbirth was 30.
For more data on fertility around the world, the O.E.C.D. offers this compilation of statistics.
You can also find data on age at first childbirth by American state from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, though the most recent state-level data I've been able to find are from 2006. That year, new mothers in Mississippi were the youngest, averaging 22.6 years old at first childbirth, and those in Massachusetts were the oldest, averaging 27.7 years old.
Finally, for a look at the extraordinarily high (and growing) costs of childbirth in the United States, see this article by my colleague Elisabeth Rosenthal.

        
Comparing the World's Glass Ceilings
        
The Return on College, Around the World
        
Mapping Unwed Motherhood
        
In Most Rich Countries, Women Work More Than Men
        
The 'Mommy Penalty,' Around the World

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (95%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (93%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (78%); WOMEN (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (67%) Birth Rates; Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development; United States Economy; Women and Girls

ORGANIZATION: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



27 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: Another Chance on Student Loan Rates

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Some student loan rates doubled as of July 1, as required under current law. But there&#8217;s still a chance they may be lowered retroactively. 

 BODY:
If you've been following the debate over the potential increase in the interest rates on subsidized student loans, you may be wonder how it's turning out. Today is, after all, July 1 - the deadline by which Congress had to act to fend off a doubling of the rates. 
Congress didn't act before the Fourth of July recess so the interest rate on new, subsidized Stafford loans doubled to 6.8 percent, from 3.4 percent, as scheduled under current law. (Subsidized Stafford loans are federal loans based on financial need; unsubsidized federal loans are available to all students, regardless of need, and rates on those loans were already at 6.8 percent).
But there's apparently still hope that rates may be knocked back down retroactively in time for students who need to borrow for college this fall. According to the nonprofit Project on Student Debt, the Senate is scheduled to vote July 10 on a bill that would keep the 3.4 percent rate for an additional year, starting today.
The project has a one-page summary of the interest rates that are in effect for the main types of federal student loans, as well as other loan terms for the 2013-14 academic year. And it has summarized the various proposals floating around for what to do about the loan rates.
How would an increase in the subsidized loan rates affect your plans to borrow for college?

        
Budget Would Eliminate Taxes on Forgiven Student Debt
        
Debt Relief Firms Are Charging for Free Programs
        
African-Americans See Debt Reduction as Top Priority
        
A Call to Refinance Private Student Loans
        
A Film to Help Students Face Their Debt

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENT LOANS (95%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (50%) Project on Student Debt; Student Loans

ORGANIZATION: Project on Student Debt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



28 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Immigration and Entrepreneurship

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: There are plenty of high-profile examples of immigrant inventors and entrepreneurs, and research affirms that immigrants form businesses at a higher rate than native-born Americans. 

 BODY:
One of the key economic arguments underpinning the immigration overhaul is that immigrants create jobs - not only because they spend money, but because they tend to be unusually entrepreneurial and innovative and so create job opportunities for the people around them. Think of Silicon Valley figures like Sergey Brin, Andrew Grove or Vinod Khosla - or the designer Liz Claiborne. The bill that passed the Senate last week, under Subtitle H, even included special provisions for what is being called a "start-up visa," to be granted to people who start companies that meet certain venture capital, hiring and revenue requirements.
So is it true that immigrants are unusually entrepreneurial? The data available suggest that yes, immigrants are overrepresented among America's business founders and innovators. 
According to a Small Business Administration-commissioned report in 2012 by Robert W. Fairlie, an economics professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, the business ownership rate is higher for immigrants than the native-born, with 10.5 percent of the immigrant work force owning a business compared with 9.3 percent of the native-born work force.
Those numbers refer to ownership of existing businesses; immigrants are also more likely to start a business in any given month. In 2010, the business formation rate per month among immigrants was 0.62 percent, meaning that of every 100,000 non-business-owning immigrants, 620 started a business each month. The comparable rate for nonimmigrants was 0.28 percent (or 280 out of every of 100,000 non-business-owning adults). The gap in new business formation between immigrants and nonimmigrants has been growing recently, too.
Higher business formation rates among the foreign-born may be driven by necessity, especially when the economy is bad.
"Because of limited job opportunities in the Great Recession there appears to be an even greater response of starting businesses among immigrants than among nonimmigrants, which may have to do with lower-skilled workers having more difficulty in finding jobs," Mr. Fairlie writes.
Immigrant-owned businesses tend to be smaller, with an average of $435,000 in annual sales and receipts, compared with $609,000 for native-owned companies.
As for job creation, companies owned by immigrants are slightly more likely to hire employees than are non-immigrant-owned companies, though they tend to take on fewer employees on average in the cases when they do hire. Among immigrant-owned businesses with employees, there are an average of eight employees and an average payroll totaling $253,000. Native-owned firms that have employees hire an average of 11.9 staff members, with an average payroll of $429,000.
The share of companies that export their goods and services is also higher for immigrant-owned than for native-owned businesses (7.1 percent versus 4.4 percent). This might be because immigrants have existing business networks within their home countries, but it's hard to know from the data.
Immigrants' entrepreneurship rates are especially high in the engineering and technology sector. About a quarter of engineering and technology companies founded between 2006 and 2012 had at least one founder who was born abroad, according to a 2012 Kauffman Foundation study. In Silicon Valley, the share was 43.9 percent.
Indian-born immigrants are most highly represented among entrepreneurs in the engineering and technology sector; of all immigrant-founded companies in the Kauffman Foundation study, a third had Indian founders, up from 7 percent in 2005. The next most common nation of origin for these high-tech immigrant entrepreneurs was China.
Another Kauffman follow-up paper also found that these high-tech immigrant founders were highly educated (74 percent held graduate or postgraduate degrees), and a majority had originally come to the United States to study, not specifically to found a new company or to accept a job at an existing company.
A co-author of those papers, Vivek Wadhwa, has since written a book suggesting that we may be on the verge of a decline in high-tech immigrant entrepreneurship because of legal barriers to staying in the United States and improving economic opportunities back in immigrants' home countries.
Aside from business start-up rates, another measurement that suggests immigrants are unusually innovative is the disproportionately high number of patents awarded to the foreign-born.
A 2007 Kauffman Foundation study found that foreign nationals residing in the United States were named as inventors or co-inventors on about a quarter of international patent applications filed from the United States in 2006. This figure probably understates immigrant patent filings, too, since it excludes immigrants who have already become naturalized citizens.
A subsequent study on immigrant patent filings (conducted by the Partnership for a New American Economy, a nonprofit group of which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is a co-founder) likewise found that immigrants were named in more than three out of four patents at America's Top 10 research universities.

        
Stronger U.S. Growth Ahead
        
Immigration and the Labor Market
        
How Immigration Reform Would Help the Economy
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
America's Biggest Entrepreneurs: High School Dropouts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (95%); IMMIGRATION (95%); JOB CREATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LEGISLATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%) Entrepreneurship; Fairlie, Robert W; Immigration and Emigration; Kauffman Foundation; United States Economy; Immigration Divide

ORGANIZATION: Kauffman Foundation

PERSON: VINOD KHOSLA (57%); SERGEY BRIN (56%) Fairlie, Robert W

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



29 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Merger Activity Was Down but Not Out in First Half

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: Despite a strong start that yielded four blockbuster transactions in one week, the first half of 2013 was the slowest first six months for mergers in four years. 

 BODY:
A long-awaited rebound in mergers is taking its time to arrive. But for all the hand-wringing by bankers and lawyers, the business of arranging deals has not quite disappeared yet.
Despite a strong start that yielded four blockbuster transactions in one week, the first half of 2013 was the slowest first six months for mergers in four years. Deals worth about $996.8 billion were announced in that period, a sum that was down 13 percent compared with a year earlier, according to data from Thomson Reuters.
 The number of deals announced worldwide for the first six months was 16,808, the fewest for the period since 2003. 
The slack pace has confounded many advisers, who continue to see an abundance of the traditional building blocks of a merger boom.
"We're seeing buyers and sellers talk about deals, only to see them die in the marketplace," said Scott A. Barshay, the head of the corporate department at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore. "All year, buyers have been willing to pull the trigger only if their deal, on a scale of one to 10, is a nine or a 10."
The price of borrowing money remains near historical lows, giving corporate buyers and private equity firms alike relatively low costs for acquisitions. And the stock markets - which historically track closely to the mergers market - rose rapidly for much of the first half.
Some of the biggest deals of the last several years arose during the first half, including Dell's proposed $24.4 billion sale to its founder; H.J. Heinz's planned $23 billion takeover by Berkshire Hathaway and 3G Capital; and Thermo Fisher Scientific's $13.6 billion purchase of Life Technologies.
In some ways, however, the factors that should be helping build a merger boom may instead be limiting it.
The market values of many potential sellers have continued to rise, persuading them to bet on sustained growth instead of risking selling out too cheaply. Privately held companies, including those owned by private equity firms, have weighed going public instead of pursuing a deal. Would-be buyers have also become leery of paying too much.
Some companies have taken advantage of cheap financing to help themselves and their shareholders by buying back stock or issuing special dividends.
At the same time, recent gyrations in the markets and concerns that the Federal Reserve may begin pulling back on its economic stimulus have left buyers and sellers - many of whom still bear scars from the fall of 2008 - unsure of whether now is the time to strike a deal.
"I think the reason activity is more muted is that many of today's decision-makers were also in very important seats during the financial crisis," said Michael Carr, the head of mergers and acquisitions in the Americas at Goldman Sachs. "They saw what happened in the markets, and those memories will take a long time to fade."
Corporate boardrooms remain open to mergers, said Vito Sperduto, the head of United States mergers and acquisitions at RBC Capital Markets. But investors are unlikely to penalize companies for sitting on the sidelines for now.
"You get questioned if you don't participate in the M.&A. cycle, but you won't lose your job," Mr. Sperduto said.
A number of the industries in which rapid-fire deal-making occurred last year slumped in the first half. Among them was the energy sector, where a new oil rush had led to a frenzy of mergers. Yet the volume of transactions announced through June 30 slumped 28.4 percent compared with figures in the period a year earlier, to $147 billion.
Not all the market data points to gloom. The value of mergers in the Americas rose 5.3 percent, to $514.4 billion. The volume struck in the United States, long the center of the deal industry, jumped 25.1 percent, to $431.4 billion.
And a number of industries are showing signs of bustling activity. Health care, a perennially busy area, had a 15.7 percent increase in mergers, to $95.5 billion. Consumer products rose 26.6 percent, to $36.1 billion.
The telecommunications sector, which posted a 4.6 percent gain in deal activity by dollar amount, is expected to heat up as wireless service providers and cable companies ponder a new wave of consolidation.
And private equity firms, the consummate deal-makers of the corporate world, have stayed busy despite wariness over the high valuations of potential targets. Leveraged buyouts rose 33.8 percent for the half, to $163.2 billion worth of transactions.
"The market is a lot healthier than the numbers look," said Robert Eatroff, co-head of mergers for the Americas at Morgan Stanley. "There are pockets of real activity."
For the first half of the year, Goldman Sachs claimed the top spot among financial advisers, having worked on 161 deals worth nearly $249 billion. Among its assignments are Virgin Media's sale to Liberty Global and Dell's proposed buyout.
Among law firms, Davis Polk & Wardwell led with 53 mergers worth a total of $120.2 billion, including the sale of Heinz.

        
Judge Upholds S.E.C. Freeze on Account Tied to Suspicious Heinz Trades
        
F.B.I. Said to Be Looking at Suspicious Heinz Trades

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); LAWYERS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (73%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); DIVIDENDS (70%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (63%); SUBPRIME LENDING (59%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (59%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Carr, Michael; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; HJ Heinz Company; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Private Equity; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; United States; United States Economy; Berkshire Hathaway Inc|BRK.A|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; HJ Heinz Company|HNZ|NYSE; Financial Services; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: CRAVATH SWAINE & MOORE LLP (84%); THERMO FISHER SCIENTIFIC INC (66%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); H J HEINZ CO (54%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (53%); 3G CAPITAL PARTNERS LTD (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Berkshire Hathaway Inc; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; HJ Heinz Company

TICKER: TMO (NYSE) (66%); GS (NYSE) (58%); HNZ (NYSE) (54%); BRK.B (NYSE) (53%); BRK.A (NYSE) (53%) Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Berkshire Hathaway Inc; BRK.A; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; HJ Heinz Company; HNZ; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334516 ANALYTICAL LABORATORY INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (66%); SIC3829 MEASURING & CONTROLLING DEVICES, NEC (66%); SIC3826 LABORATORY ANALYTICAL INSTRUMENTS (66%); SIC3823 INDUSTRIAL INSTRUMENTS FOR MEASUREMENT, DISPLAY & CONTROL OF PROCESS VARIABLES & RELATED PRODUCTS (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS311941 MAYONNAISE, DRESSING & OTHER PREPARED SAUCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (54%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (54%); SIC2035 PICKLED FRUITS & VEGETABLES, VEGETABLE SAUCES & SEASONINGS, & SALAD DRESSINGS (54%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (54%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (53%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (53%)

PERSON: Carr, Michael

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



30 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Deal Outlook in Europe Remains Gloomy

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The number of announced European deals fell 43 percent, to $221 billion, in the first six months of 2013, and M.&#038;.A. advisers have been left scratching their heads over how to get deals done. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Sitting in a conference room in JPMorgan Chase's plush offices in London's financial district, Hernan Cristerna is in a reflective mood.
As the new global co-head of the bank's mergers and acquisitions division, the 48-year-old Spaniard is charged with navigating his team through a faltering deal market that has yet to recover to pre-crisis levels.
While a number of megadeals have been announced so far this year, global merger activity in the first half of 2013 is down 13 percent, to $996.8 billion, over the same period last year, according to the data provider Thomson Reuters. 
And in Europe, the trend is even more pronounced.
The number of announced European deals fell 43 percent, to $221 billion, in the first six months of the year, and Mr. Cristerna and his counterparts at the other major global investment banks have been left scratching their heads over how to get deals done.
"At the U.S. Open, the best players in the world couldn't break par. It's the same for our industry," said the JPMorgan co-head, who runs the mergers and acquisitions unit with his New York-based colleague, Chris Ventresca. "The best M.&A. professionals are unable to get the ball anywhere near the flag. And when we get on the green, we face very long puts for par. We can't beat the course."
Many of the troubles facing Europe's dealmakers stem from the Continent's lackluster economy.
Unlike the United States, whose economy grew 1.8 percent in the first quarter of the year, the European Union's gross domestic product fell 0.1 percent over the same period. Unemployment in the European Union also now stands at 12.1 percent, versus 7.6 percent in the U.S.
Analysts and bankers say Europe's weak growth - and concerns that local politicians are not taking the right steps to improve the Continent's competitiveness - continues to sap confidence, leading many executives to postpone acquisitions in the hopes that market volatility will eventually calm down.
"The euro crisis has become the new normal," said Scott Moeller, director of the M.&A. research center at the Cass Business School in London. "It's hard to see any big European deals happening for some time to come."
For Mr. Cristerna of JPMorgan, Europe's corporate leaders have to be bolder.
With economic green shoots a distant memory, local companies should tap into their mounting cash stockpiles and ready access to financing from the capital markets to fund deals, which will add potential revenue or allow access to new markets, according to the Spanish banker.
Mr. Cristerna adds that chief executives also must fend off growing calls from shareholders for buybacks, as investors fret that market volatility and poor economic growth continue to hit companies' stock prices.
"On deals they believe in, C.E.O.'s can't be intimidated by investor demands," said Mr. Cristerna, who joined JPMorgan from Schroders in 1996 and holds an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. "Not enough C.E.O.'s are making the case for deals. C.E.O.'s have to get on with their own agenda."
So far this year, not many corporate leaders have been willing to follow Mr. Cristerna's advice.
To date, the largest European deals have both come from the cable industry, which analysts say continues to offer steady returns because of local consumers' insatiable appetite for data streamed through their smartphones and high speed broadband connections.
Last month, the British telecommunications giant Vodafone agreed to buy the German cable operator Kabel Deutschland for $10.1 billion, while John C. Malone's Liberty Global has acquired the British cable company Virgin Media for $16 billion.
Yet analysts warn that expectations of a revival in the European M.&A. market is likely misplaced.
"These deals haven't kicked off a round of other big deals," said Mr. Moeller of Cass Business School. "Overall, Europe remains depressed."
For Mr. Cristerna and his rivals at the likes of Goldman Sachs and Deutsche Bank, the hope remains that a rebounding U.S. economy and increased interest from Asian buyers will eventually rekindle Europe's M.&A. market - and help them pocket multimillion-dollar advisory fees.
Many of the Continent's largest companies, including the German engineering giant Siemens and the French retailer Carrefour, have extensive global operations, and are increasingly turning to international expansion, particularly in emerging economies, to offset weak demand in their home markets.
"We have to place our bets," said the Spanish banker, who advised the European coffee and tea company D.E. Master Blenders on its $9.8 billion sale to Joh. A. Benckiser in April. "I'm an optimist at heart and believe that many of the potential deals we are working on have a good chance of coming to fruition."

        
Cost Savings Make Vodafone Deal Palatable
        
Vodafone the Best Bet to Buy German Cable Giant

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MERGERS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); TRENDS (75%); EURO CRISIS (74%); DIVESTITURES (72%); EXECUTIVES (65%); PUBLIC DEBT (64%); EXTERNAL DEBT (63%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (60%) Europe; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Kabel Deutschland; Malone, John C; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Virgin Media Inc; Vodafone Group Plc; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Kabel Deutschland; Virgin Media Inc; Vodafone Group Plc

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%)

PERSON: JOHN MALONE (60%) Malone, John C

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Europe

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



31 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Winklevoss Twins Plan First Fund for Bitcoins

BYLINE: NATHANIEL POPPER and PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal by Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss to create an exchange-traded fund dealing in bitcoins could make the digital currency more accessible to ordinary investors. 

 BODY:
Bitcoin has been promoted as an alternative crypto-currency that exists outside the realms of governments and central banks. Now, two backers of the digital money are seeking to bring bitcoin into the investing mainstream - if they win the approval of the United States government.
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the twins best known for their part in the history of Facebook, filed a proposal with securities regulators on Monday that would allow any investor to trade bitcoins, just as if they were stocks. The plan involves an exchange-traded fund, which usually tracks a basket of stocks or a commodity, but in this case would hold only bitcoins. 
 It is part of a broader effort to remove the stigma hovering over bitcoin and other online money endeavors, which have faced a barrage of regulatory questions and enforcement actions. Recently the world's largest trading exchange for bitcoins, Mt.Gox, filed with the Treasury Department to register itself as a money services business and comply with money-laundering laws.
The proposal from the twins, who already have sizable bitcoin holdings, is an audacious one: the Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust could send digital money from the realm of computer programmers, Internet entrepreneurs and a small circle of professional investors like themselves into the hands of retail investors - virtually anyone with a brokerage account.
"The trust brings bitcoin to Main Street and mainstream investors to bitcoin," said Tyler Winklevoss, co-founder of Math-Based Asset Services, which would operate the proposed fund. "It eliminates the friction of buying and reduces the risks associated with storing bitcoin while offering similar investment attributes to direct ownership."
Their proposal has the advantage of coming from the desk of Kathleen Moriarty, a lawyer at Katten Muchin, who played a leading role in the creation of the first exchange-traded fund and popular gold- and silver-backed E.T.F.'s.
But it is far from certain that securities regulators will approve. Even if they do, such a fund would face major challenges, including the current bottlenecks that stop bitcoins from being easily bought and sold.
"There are so many ways it could go wrong," said Ugo Egbunike, a senior specialist in exchange-traded funds at the data company Index Universe.
On Monday, several market participants suggested that the proposal was a long shot that was merely an attempt to legitimize the digital currency. But Cameron Winklevoss expressed confidence that regulators would bless the new investment.
"We have assembled a team that has successfully launched novel products before, and we firmly believe in the chances of success for this product," he said.
The filing is the latest eye-catching development in bitcoin's history since it was founded by an anonymous hacker, or hackers, in 2009.
Unlike traditional money, bitcoins exist in no physical form and are not backed by a central bank. Instead, the coins are created by a network of users who solve complex mathematical problems - a method known as "mining" - to generate bitcoins. Only a finite number of bitcoins can be created - 21 million - with the current count at about 11 million. A limited number of stores and Web sites are accepting bitcoin as payment, but for now it is primarily a vehicle for speculators.
"The value of bitcoins is determined by the value that various market participants place on bitcoins through their transactions," the brothers' filing says.
The currency grabbed the attention of global markets in April when the value of a single bitcoin spiked to more than $250 from $110, before plummeting. While there were questions about the survival of the currency, the value of a bitcoin has recently hovered around $100, making the total market worth about $1 billion.
During the April swoon, the Winklevosses went public with their own bitcoin hoard, amounting to about 1 percent of all outstanding coins, or about $10 million.
Bitcoins can currently only be bought and sold on informal computer networks and on online marketplaces that require substantial technological savvy and are far more complicated than traditional exchanges. The inaccessibility, and the limited quantity of bitcoins, appeal to users who are skeptical of governments and central banks. But it has made the system vulnerable at times to hackers and technology flaws.
An exchange-traded fund would make it significantly easier to gain exposure to bitcoins, just as commodities-based funds have made investing in gold, silver and other precious metals more accessible.
The Winklevoss fund would buy one bitcoin for every five shares, making the value of a single share worth about a fifth of a single bitcoin. Regulated trading desks would have to handle the daily buying and selling of the shares. The company operated by the Winklevosses would have a proprietary method for storing the fund's bitcoin holdings and would charge an annual management fee, which is not specified in the filing.
Monday's submission comes at a precarious time for digital money. In May, the operators of another online currency, Liberty Reserve, were indicted on charges that they facilitated billions of dollars of money laundering. Both before and after that, state and federal regulators were scrutinizing many players in the growing bitcoin economy, including the largest place to buy and sell the coins, the Tokyo-based Mt.Gox.
Before Mt.Gox registered with the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, some of its accounts in the United States were frozen. The company temporarily stopped its American customers from cashing out while it said it was "making improvements."
Mt.Gox's difficulties highlight the risks that could confront the owner of shares in a bitcoin fund. The securities filing made Monday has 18 pages of "risk factors," noting, among other concerns, the heavy presence of speculators and "an uncertain regulatory landscape."
Mr. Egbunike said regulators may hesitate to approve the proposal because of the questions surrounding bitcoins and recent scrutiny of exchange-traded funds more broadly. While such funds have made the buying and selling of commodities and other complicated financial assets easier for retail investors, they have given these investors access to products that they may not understand. For current bitcoin aficionados, an E.T.F. could diminish the currency's free-spirited appeal.
But even if the Winklevosses' proposal fails, some industry experts said that it marks a significant signpost in the push to give virtual currencies at least a veneer of respectability.
"Digital currencies are not going away," said Carol Van Cleef, the head of law firm Patton Boggs's emerging-payments practice. "And as bitcoin rises in popularity, you're going to see traditional financial products and services being adapted to it."

        
An E.T.F. Too Far
        
Never Mind Facebook; Winklevoss Twins Rule in Digital Money

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (92%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); LAWYERS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (68%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); MONEY LAUNDERING (52%) Bitcoin Project; Exchange Traded Funds; Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust; Winklevoss, Cameron; Winklevoss, Tyler; Financial Services; Technology; Top Headline 1; Venture Capital

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Bitcoin Project; Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

PERSON: Winklevoss, Cameron; Winklevoss, Tyler

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



32 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not Braise the Planet

BYLINE: MARK BITTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Our ability to turn around the rate of carbon emissions and slow the engine that can conflagrate the world is certain. But do we have the will? 

 BODY:
According to a report released by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace last month, we are not running out of fossil fuels anytime soon. Since the dawn of the industrial revolution we've used around 1.2 trillion barrels of oil; the report estimates that with current technology we can produce roughly five times that much. With future technologies, it may well be that the suffering sky is the limit.
This reduces the issue of conversion to clean energy to one of ethics and intent. Our ability to turn around the rate of carbon emissions and slow the engine that can conflagrate the world is certain. But do we have the will? 
The chief economist at the International Energy Agency recommends leaving two-thirds of all fossil fuels in the ground. Makes sense to me, but if you're an oil executive scarcely being charged for the global damage your industry causes (an effective annual subsidy, says the International Monetary Fund, of nearly $2 trillion, money that would be better spent subsidizing nonpolluting energy sources), responsible to your shareholders and making a fortune, would you start erecting windmills?

Here's the answer: According to Rolling Stone, just this spring, BP put its $3.1 billion United States wind farm operation up for sale. Last year, ConocoPhillips divested itself of its alternative-energy activities. Shell, with its "Let's Go" campaign to "broaden the world's energy mix," spends less than 2 percent of its expenditures on "alternatives."Mining oil, gas and coal is making some people rich while braising the planet for all of us. It's difficult to think ahead, especially with climate change deniers sowing doubt and unfounded fears of unemployment, but we owe quick and decisive action on greenhouse gas reduction not only to ourselves but to billions of people not yet born. "People give less weight to the future, but that's a brain bug," the philosopher Peter Singer told me. "We should have equal concern for everyone wherever and whenever they live."
There's reason for optimism thanks to renewable energy standards in most states, California's groundbreaking cap-and-trade law and President Obama's directive to the Environmental Protection Agency last week. But this isn't nearly enough, and you have to hope that the president is now fully engaged in progressive energy policy and isn't merely preparing us for disappointment should he approve of Keystone XL.
Three things worth noting: Most politicians prefer adaptation to mitigation - that is, they'd rather build houses on stilts than reduce emissions; energy independence is in no way synonymous with "clean" energy; and the oft-stated notion that "since gas burns cleaner than coal and oil, we should be moving toward gas" puts us on the highway to hell.
Make no mistake: when it comes to climate change gas isn't "clean," because undetermined amounts of methane - a powerful greenhouse gas - leak into the atmosphere from natural gas production.
The answer is zero emission energy. Even moderate changes can help, but cuts in the use of fossil fuels must be much deeper than the president is directing, and this may not happen unless we rid Congress of friends of Big Energy. (By one count the House's 125 climate-change deniers have taken $30 million in contributions from energy companies.)
Investments in zero-carbon energy are relatively inexpensive and good for the economy, and the cost of business as usual is higher than the cost of even expensive carbon pricing. But it's tough - pointless? - to make these arguments to the energy companies and their Congressional lackeys, who will fight as they have been effectively paid to do.
Unless we quickly put a steep and real price on all carbon emissions, our inaction will doom our not-too-distant descendants. "Really," says Dan Lashof, the director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's climate and clean air program, "we need a comprehensive approach to reduce carbon pollution from all sources. What form that takes - caps, taxes, or standards - is far less important than how soon we get it in place."
Americans and Western Europeans have been the primary beneficiaries of the lifestyle that accelerated climate change, and, of course are among the primary emitters of greenhouse gases. For the first 200-plus years of the fossil fuel age, we could claim ignorance of its lasting harm; we cannot do that now.
With knowledge comes responsibility, and with that responsibility must come action. As the earth's stewards, our individual changes are important, but this is a bigger deal than replacing light bulbs or riding a bike. Let's make working to turn emissions around a litmus test for every politician who asks for our vote.
Imagine a democracy across space, time and class, where legislative bodies represented not only those living in the world's low-lying areas but their great-grandchildren - and ours. Or imagine that our elected representatives were proxies for those people. Imagine those representatives determining our current energy policy. Is there any doubt that things would change more rapidly?

        
Clean Water at No Cost? Just Add Carbon Credits
        
The Endless Summer
        
Green Roofs in Big Cities Bring Relief From Above
        
On the Road, and Out of the Red
        
What's Worse Than an Oil Spill?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); ETHICS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DIVESTITURES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Environment; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Mark Bittman

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); S A BRAIN & CO LTD (64%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2013



33 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: July 1, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1970 words

HEADLINE: Student Reading Contest Winner | Internet Surveillance

BYLINE: ADELE GRIFFIN


HIGHLIGHT: Five young adult authors from Random House Kids choose a winner and four runners-up in the first week of our Summer Reading Contest. 

 BODY:
 Each Monday through Sept. 2 we'll be announcing the winner and runners-up for a different week of our Summer Reading Contest. Below, Adele Griffin and four other young adult authors at Random House Kids pick their favorites from Week One. To enter this week's contest post here by the evening of July 4. 
 The Winner 
The New York Times Summer Reading Contest presented our judging panel at Random House Kids such a variety of engaged and thoughtful viewpoints that picking a winner was no easy walk on the beach. 
We were unequivocally unified, however, in our appreciation of this entry by 15-year-old Simi from Atlanta, Ga., a response to the article"3 Tech Giants Want to Reveal Data Requests."
In commenting on the text, the writer not only built a strong platform of opinion, but also offered many independent and dynamic ideas that felt like an invitation to further, excellent conversation. I was personally won over by Simi's insight and charge of thought on this topic: 
 Who in this world knows the most about you? Many would say "my parents" or "my best friend," and the clever ones, "God" or "me." The correct answer: the Internet. We inhabit a world in which our most trustworthy confidant is not the childhood friend that we've known since we were six, but instead a rectangular box that presides on Google's homepage.
The Internet Surveillance Program is being conducted by "tech giants." Google search queries are presented as evidence in criminal trials, Facebook pages assist in profiling suspects, and Twitter feeds are scrutinized by people whose job is to find out everything about you. Institutions possess the capability to browse through a prospective student's every Facebook status like it's the morning newspaper. Certain people protest Prism because it's a violation of privacy, and others protest because of its potential to expose their greatest fears and most discomforting questions. With the NSA's requests described in the aforementioned article, it's all coming to life.
What amazes me the most is the intense collaboration occurring between these private entities and the government, a collaboration that revives a practice from the times of global imperialism. In the 1600s, joint-stock companies served as valuable liaisons between governments and their colonies, as evidenced by the widely-known British East India Company. The collaboration was employed as a strategic maneuver to maintain power over the people. Today, the "tech giants" of the world are the equivalent of the seafaring government allies; the profound need for information being the modern equivalent of the historic need for raw resources. Thomas Friedman outlines globalization in his book, The World is Flat. Globalization 1.0 was facilitated by governments and 2.0 by multinational companies. Globalization 3.0 has thus been fostered by the amalgamation of both, with the backing of the World Wide Web. The striking similarity between colonial times and the modern era is enlightening and frightening. Such power can initiate a domino effect of damage. The government may possess plausible intentions in the utilization of this information, but once this line is crossed, there's no telling what consequences will come to fruition.
 The Runners-Up: 
Congratulations Devin from Suwanee, Ga., Fiona from Honolulu, Hawaii, Aishwarya from Sacramento, Calif., and David from Winston-Salem, N.C.!
Below, each of our judges comments on one of these entries, and chooses a short excerpt from each.
 Daniel Kraus, author of "Scowler," on Devin's post about "The Art of the Brick": 
Devin's response shows a real understanding of how to engage with art, both critically and personally, and displays an acute awareness of what the artist intended. Far more importantly, Devin does not flinch from diving headfirst into creative speculation, which is Step One to successfully responding to art with art-in this case, the art of writing.
This exhibition by artist Nathan Sawaya is the embodiment of the experiences and journeys taken by human beings. These beautifully complex and ornate sculptures seem smooth and unblemished from afar, but as the viewing distance decreases the amount of visible sharp angles and rough edges increases. On any other work of art these jagged edges would be viewed as imperfections and would decrease the value of the art; however, Sawaya is not held to these standards because he is creating reflections of human life.
As humans we grow and develop and are the definition of dynamic. As we travel through life we have the highest of highs, the lowest of lows, the fondest of memories, and the most gut-wrenching of regrets. These experiences along the way, once lived, become part of us and start to describe who we are. Much like the sculptures in Nathan Sawaya's exhibit, we are masterpieces made of countless mistakes and imperfections. Each lego, or mistake, standing alone tells no story, but when combined with others of their kind they began to develop the most beautifully unprecedented story that we call life.
 Amy Christine Parker, author of "Gated," on Fiona's post about "Phone Records of Journalists Seized by U.S." : 
I really enjoyed being a part of Random House's panel of judges for this week's contest. It was impressive how well the entrants expressed their thoughts on their chosen articles. Picking just one as our winner was no easy task because each of the runners-up also did such an excellent job. I was drawn to this entry by Fiona. She managed to be both articulate and impassioned, and the article held a personal connection to her own life, which really made her entry stand out.
Like many Americans, I was shocked when I first learned that the Obama administration had seized the telephone records of journalists working for the Associated Press, the world's largest news organization. I never thought that the federal government's concern about news leaks would go so far as to disregard the U.S. Constitution and the Bill of Rights. My father is the managing editor of a newspaper and my mother started her career at the A.P., so this has been an important topic for my family. All families should be talking about this scandal. Americans should be speaking out more about this intrusion because it affects us more than we realize.
The First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution states that Americans have the right to freedom of speech and to a free press. The Obama administration has threatened that right. Without a free press, we wouldn't know the truth about our government and its actions. The A.P. spreads the most information throughout all news media, so an infringement on the A.P. means an infringement on all news.
... Americans should show more concern for the A.P. scandal. Freedom of speech gives us the right to have information that is unfiltered by the government, and it gives journalists the right to tell the truth without having to fear that they will be spied on. The Obama administration has threatened that right, and it is our job as Americans is to speak out about it.
 Robin Wasserman, author of "The Waking Dark," on Aishwarya's post about "3D Printers To Make Things You Need or Like": 
Aishwarya's analysis of the issues raised by 3-D printing is both eloquent and thought-provoking, invoking the spectre of a dystopian future hiding behind seemingly innocuous innovation. She pushes us to be mindful of the unintended social consequences of "shiny" technological advances and makes a compelling argument that these are important questions to answer...before the future answers them for us.
Society and the part individuals play in it is incessantly changing through advances in technology. We adapt our lives in order to utilize and benefit from new technology available. Are these changes really for the better? We have concocted all sorts of forms of communication, yet they seem to become more and more impersonal. Society has become attuned to the communication such as Facebook or texting, showing that we see them as beneficial assets to society.[#x2028]As discussed in the article "3-D Printers to Make Things You Need or Like" 3-D printers are an up and coming form of technology. They open a new realm of possibility. With 3-D printers in homes, it would just take a couple clicks to get the doorknob replaced or fix the washing machine, making us more self-reliant.[#x2028]What would be the social impact of the mechanization of labor? It could lead to skyrocketing unemployment rates. The 3-D printer would create a surplus of plastic objects. While ingenious ideas may be devised, a lot of these plastic creations would end up in landfills.[#x2028]Society is being posed a question now that 3-D printers have been commercialized. Will we accept this and move forward with it? Or will there be steps taken to avoid having 3-D printers in every household?[#x2028]The social impact of 3-D printers moves to a constitutional level entangling itself in the heated debate about a citizen's right to bear arms. It has been proven that a working gun can be made using a 3-D printer, and it's cheap. Whether or not the blueprints of the gun should be shared with the general public sparked controversy.[#x2028]At first thought the 3-D printer seems to be the solution to problems. We would independently be able to solve countless household problems. Being able to "print out" human tissue could be in the radar for the near future with the 3-D printer. However, as we delve further into it, a future with a 3-D printer may not be all that shiny. Is that future worth the sacrifices?[#x2028]
 Matt de la Pena, author of "The Living," on David's post about "I Know What You Think of Me": 
David has composed a beautiful and thoughtful reaction to Tim Kreider's article about social anxiety. He connects to the piece (and the issue) personally and then widens the lens to view anxiety from the standpoint of a society, closing his comment with a wise final takeaway.
Tim Kreider's article titled "I Know What You Think of Me" made me consider not only the issue of social anxiety, which I am personally very familiar with, but also the broader topic of human capacity for both love and condemnation. Kreider writes about his own experiences of discomfort arising from criticism and judgment with a fairly humorous tone, showing the ridiculousness of the normal human reaction to such experiences. Who on earth could take themselves so seriously as to expect the same admiration from others? We deride egomaniacs and dictators who take extreme steps to imprint their own self-image on everyone's minds, yet most of us subconsciously assume the same total respect from those around us.
But this column also got me thinking about what people can do to ease the pain of "the mortifying ordeal of being known." Kreider essentially concludes that we have to accept unconditional love as a fallacy. This sounds like a rather harsh wake-up call. But look at it from another perspective, and it really feeds into the notion of true compassion that lies at the heart of so many ethical philosophies. In order to see yourself in others you have to be able to appreciate and respect the ability of others to judge you. We could end up not only taking each other a bit more seriously, but also in a deep way acknowledging each other's humanity.
This probably isn't a miraculous cure for social anxiety, but it helps to make human interactions seem more beautiful than treacherous. Kreider's call for us to recognize each other's interior complexity is wonderfully expressed. Somehow, taking people seriously by recognizing their irrationality sounds simple.

        
Summer Reading Contest Winner | Transgender Rights
        
Student Reading Contest Winner | Brave High School Journalists
        
Student Reading Contest Winner | English Majors
        
Student Contest Winner | Missing Superheroes
        
Student Contest Winner | A Staged Drowning

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: YOUNG ADULT LITERATURE (90%); INTERNET PRIVACY (89%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); INTERNET & WWW (87%); GLOBALIZATION (86%); EVIDENCE (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (64%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (60%) Summer Reading Winner; student challenge

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%); TWITTER INC (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (76%) GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2013



34 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Experts See New Normal As a Hotter, Drier West Faces More Huge Fires

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and KENNETH CHANG; Fernanda Santos and John Dougherty contributed reporting from Prescott, Ariz., and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.

 BODY:
One of the deadliest wildfires in a generation vastly expanded Monday to cover more than 8,000 acres, sweeping up sharp slopes through dry scrub and gnarled piñon pines a day after fickle winds and flames killed 19 firefighters.
The gusty monsoon winds where the Colorado Plateau begins to drop off into the Sonoran Desert continued to bedevil about 400 firefighters who were defending 500 homes and 200 businesses in the old gold mining villages of Yarnell and Peeples Valley.
Scientists said those blazes and 15 others that remained uncontained from New Mexico to California and Idaho were part of the new normal -- an increasingly hot and dry West, resulting in more catastrophic fires. 
Since 1970, Arizona has warmed at a rate 0.72 degrees per decade, the fastest among the 50 states, based on an analysis of temperature data by Climate Central, an independent organization that researches and reports on climate. Even as the temperatures have leveled off in many places around the world in the past decade, the Southwest has continued to get hotter.
''The decade of 2001 to 2010 in Arizona was the hottest in both spring and the summer,'' said Gregg Garfin, a professor of climate, natural resources and policy at the University of Arizona and the executive editor of a study examining the impact of climate change on the Southwest.
Warmer winters mean less snowfall. More of the winter precipitation falls as rain, which quickly flows away in streams instead of seeping deep underground.
The soils then dry out earlier and more quickly in May and June. ''It's the most arid time of year,'' Dr. Garfin said. ''It's windy as well.''
The growing season also starts earlier, so there is more to burn.
''The fire season has lengthened substantially, by two months, over the last 30 years,'' said Craig D. Allen, a research ecologist at the United States Geological Survey station at Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico.
The fire potential is exacerbated by the past policy, beginning around 1900, of putting out all fires. Fires are a natural way of clearing out the underbrush. With that natural rhythm disrupted, the flammable material piled up, so when it did catch fire, it ignited a giant fire that burned hotter and wider.
This total-suppression policy began to ease as early as the 1950s, when scientists began to see fire's role in ecosystems. It was completely abandoned nearly two decades ago.
But in the 1970s, the Southwest entered a wet period, part of a climate cycle that repeats every 20 to 30 years. ''That wet period helped keep a lid on fires,'' Dr. Allen said. ''And it also allowed the forests to fluff up.''
Since 1996, the climate pattern, known as the Pacific decadal oscillation, has swung to the dry end of the spectrum, and the region is caught in a long-term drought.
Stephen J. Pyne, one of the nation's leading fire historians and a professor at Arizona State University, said, ''How we live on the land, what we decide we put on public and private lands, how we do things and don't do things on the land, changes its combustibility.''
In many landscapes, he added, ''you've enhanced the natural combustibility'' by building hundreds of thousands of homes in fire-prone areas, and for years suppressing natural fires, allowing a buildup of combustible materials like the ''slash'' debris left behind by logging.
''The natural conditions, particularly climate, the land-use changes that interact with it and how we add or subtract fire, those are the three parts of the fire triangle. Almost all of those are pointing in the same direction -- bigger, more damaging fires,'' he said.
While Yarnell is not a new community, and its population remained basically stable between 2000 and 2010, it is representative of the risk involved in the trend around the West for people to move into fire-prone areas in what social scientists call the ''wild land-urban interface.''
Those expanding communities, with rural views but more urban economies, have been the focus of concern among federal and state officials for a decade or more. While such regions are more plentiful in the East, it is in the areas west of the 100th longitude, reaching from West Texas and the Dakotas to the Pacific Ocean, where the natural aridity, increasingly exacerbated by climate change, makes fires a common threat.
In the West in the 1990s, more than 2.2 million housing units were added in these fire-prone areas, according to testimony by Roger B. Hammer, a demographer at Oregon State University and a leading authority on the issue. Speaking to a House subcommittee in 2008, he called this a ''wicked problem,'' and predicted an additional 12.3 million homes would be built in such areas in Western states -- more than double the current numbers.
Government and scientific data show that destructive sweep of wildfires covered an annual average of seven million acres in the 2000s, twice the totals of the 1990s. Michael Kodas, who is writing a book on modern firefighting, wrote in On Earth magazine last year that scientists believe that number will rise 50 percent or more by 2020.
Yet in fiscal 2013, more than $1.7 billion, or 38 percent of the Forest Service's budget, was to be devoted to firefighting in general, with $537.8 million -- a slight reduction from the previous year -- specifically allocated for wildland fires. The Interior Department's appropriation for wildland firefighting was $276.5 million, a slight increase over the previous year.
But the federal budget sequester eliminated $28 million from the Forest Service budget, although Interior's remained nearly level. This occurred even though both agencies overspent 2012 budgets of similar size, and though federal firefighters are often first responders, working alongside their state colleagues during blazes like the Yarnell Hill fire.
''The Forest Service is being treated as a firefighter of last resort,'' Dr. Pyne said. This, he added, ''is not what the agency was set up for, and it's not financed for it.''
Dr. Allen said that what was different in the recent fires -- hotter, more enveloping -- is that they are killing far more trees. ''We're seeing the size of postfire treeless patches merging into thousands of acres,'' he said, ''sometimes many thousands of acres.''
That could permanently transform much of the Arizona landscape as grasslands and shrubs fill in the empty space.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yarnell Hill fire, which quickly expanded on Monday to cover more than 8,000 acres. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPHICS: Arizona Blaze Traps Firefighters
Acres burned in wildfires in the Southwest
Portable fire shelters
High-risk zones (Sources: Arizona State Forestry Division
National Wildfire Coordinating Group
International Association of Firefighters
 Missoula Fire Sciences Lab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (90%); FOREST FIRES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); DESERTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



35 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Experts See New Normal As a Hotter, Drier West Faces More Huge Fires

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and KENNETH CHANG; Fernanda Santos and John Dougherty contributed reporting from Prescott, Ariz., and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.

 BODY:
One of the deadliest wildfires in a generation vastly expanded Monday to cover more than 8,000 acres, sweeping up sharp slopes through dry scrub and gnarled piñon pines a day after fickle winds and flames killed 19 firefighters.
The gusty monsoon winds where the Colorado Plateau begins to drop off into the Sonoran Desert continued to bedevil about 400 firefighters who were defending 500 homes and 200 businesses in the old gold mining villages of Yarnell and Peeples Valley.
Scientists said those blazes and 15 others that remained uncontained from New Mexico to California and Idaho were part of the new normal -- an increasingly hot and dry West, resulting in more catastrophic fires. 
Since 1970, Arizona has warmed at a rate 0.72 degrees per decade, the fastest among the 50 states, based on an analysis of temperature data by Climate Central, an independent organization that researches and reports on climate. Even as the temperatures have leveled off in many places around the world in the past decade, the Southwest has continued to get hotter.
''The decade of 2001 to 2010 in Arizona was the hottest in both spring and the summer,'' said Gregg Garfin, a professor of climate, natural resources and policy at the University of Arizona and the executive editor of a study examining the impact of climate change on the Southwest.
Warmer winters mean less snowfall. More of the winter precipitation falls as rain, which quickly flows away in streams instead of seeping deep underground.
The soils then dry out earlier and more quickly in May and June. ''It's the most arid time of year,'' Dr. Garfin said. ''It's windy as well.''
The growing season also starts earlier, so there is more to burn.
''The fire season has lengthened substantially, by two months, over the last 30 years,'' said Craig D. Allen, a research ecologist at the United States Geological Survey station at Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico.
The fire potential is exacerbated by the past policy, beginning around 1900, of putting out all fires. Fires are a natural way of clearing out the underbrush. With that natural rhythm disrupted, the flammable material piled up, so when it did catch fire, it ignited a giant fire that burned hotter and wider.
This total-suppression policy began to ease as early as the 1950s, when scientists began to see fire's role in ecosystems. It was completely abandoned nearly two decades ago.
But in the 1970s, the Southwest entered a wet period, part of a climate cycle that repeats every 20 to 30 years. ''That wet period helped keep a lid on fires,'' Dr. Allen said. ''And it also allowed the forests to fluff up.''
Since 1996, the climate pattern, known as the Pacific decadal oscillation, has swung to the dry end of the spectrum, and the region is caught in a long-term drought.
Stephen J. Pyne, one of the nation's leading fire historians and a professor at Arizona State University, said, ''How we live on the land, what we decide we put on public and private lands, how we do things and don't do things on the land, changes its combustibility.''
In many landscapes, he added, ''you've enhanced the natural combustibility'' by building hundreds of thousands of homes in fire-prone areas, and for years suppressing natural fires, allowing a buildup of combustible materials like the ''slash'' debris left behind by logging.
''The natural conditions, particularly climate, the land-use changes that interact with it and how we add or subtract fire, those are the three parts of the fire triangle. Almost all of those are pointing in the same direction -- bigger, more damaging fires,'' he said.
While Yarnell is not a new community, and its population remained basically stable between 2000 and 2010, it is representative of the risk involved in the trend around the West for people to move into fire-prone areas in what social scientists call the ''wild land-urban interface.''
Those expanding communities, with rural views but more urban economies, have been the focus of concern among federal and state officials for a decade or more. While such regions are more plentiful in the East, it is in the areas west of the 100th longitude, reaching from West Texas and the Dakotas to the Pacific Ocean, where the natural aridity, increasingly exacerbated by climate change, makes fires a common threat.
In the West in the 1990s, more than 2.2 million housing units were added in these fire-prone areas, according to testimony by Roger B. Hammer, a demographer at Oregon State University and a leading authority on the issue. Speaking to a House subcommittee in 2008, he called this a ''wicked problem,'' and predicted an additional 12.3 million homes would be built in such areas in Western states -- more than double the current numbers.
Government and scientific data show that destructive sweep of wildfires covered an annual average of seven million acres in the 2000s, twice the totals of the 1990s. Michael Kodas, who is writing a book on modern firefighting, wrote in On Earth magazine last year that scientists believe that number will rise 50 percent or more by 2020.
Yet in fiscal 2013, more than $1.7 billion, or 38 percent of the Forest Service's budget, was to be devoted to firefighting in general, with $537.8 million -- a slight reduction from the previous year -- specifically allocated for wildland fires. The Interior Department's appropriation for wildland firefighting was $276.5 million, a slight increase over the previous year.
But the federal budget sequester eliminated $28 million from the Forest Service budget, although Interior's remained nearly level. This occurred even though both agencies overspent 2012 budgets of similar size, and though federal firefighters are often first responders, working alongside their state colleagues during blazes like the Yarnell Hill fire.
''The Forest Service is being treated as a firefighter of last resort,'' Dr. Pyne said. This, he added, ''is not what the agency was set up for, and it's not financed for it.''
Dr. Allen said that what was different in the recent fires -- hotter, more enveloping -- is that they are killing far more trees. ''We're seeing the size of postfire treeless patches merging into thousands of acres,'' he said, ''sometimes many thousands of acres.''
That could permanently transform much of the Arizona landscape as grasslands and shrubs fill in the empty space.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yarnell Hill fire, which quickly expanded on Monday to cover more than 8,000 acres. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPHICS: Arizona Blaze Traps Firefighters
Acres burned in wildfires in the Southwest
Portable fire shelters
High-risk zones (Sources: Arizona State Forestry Division
National Wildfire Coordinating Group
International Association of Firefighters
 Missoula Fire Sciences Lab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (90%); FOREST FIRES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); DESERTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



36 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Bay Area Commuters Scramble as Strike Idles Trains

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI; Malia Wollan contributed reporting from Oakland, Calif.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The San Francisco Bay Area's commuter train service was shut down by a strike on Monday, forcing hundreds of thousands of people onto overcrowded roads, bridges, buses and ferries. The dispute appeared headed into a second day as negotiations between the Bay Area Rapid Transit System and two of its largest unions broke down. No new talks were scheduled.
Some 2,400 employees of the commuter railroad, known as BART -- which is the nation's fifth-largest, used by more than 400,000 riders daily -- went on strike after their four-year contract expired Sunday night. BART's management and the two unions, representing train operators, station agents, maintenance and other workers, failed to reach an agreement on wages and benefits. 
The labor organizations, the Service Employees International Union and the Amalgamated Transit Union, which were demanding a 5 percent raise in each of the next three years, rejected management's offer of 2 percent annual increases over the next four years. Management is also pressing workers to start making contributions to their state pension plans and to increase their health insurance payments from the current level of $92 a month.
''We've heard nothing from them today,'' said Josie Mooney, a negotiator for the Service Employees International Union, adding that she did not know when talks would resume.
The strike caught Samantha Fox by surprise. Ms. Fox, 29, had dressed up in a button-down shirt and yellow slacks for a job interview at Crate & Barrel in San Francisco only to find the MacArthur BART station closed. ''I'm frustrated because I hadn't heard anything about this strike,'' she said.
Ms. Fox knew a bus route she could take. But the walk from the bus station to the interview was longer than the walk from the BART station would have been. ''It's hot out, and I don't want to get my nice clothes sweaty before my interview,'' she said.
Describing management's offer on wages as ''really inferior,'' Ms. Mooney said members deserved raises after accepting a wage freeze in contract negotiations during the economic crisis in 2009. ''This union is responsive to employers when there are bad times on the commitment that when times are good, workers' wages and conditions will be restored,'' she said.
Jim Allison, a spokesman for BART, said the transit system was asking its unionized workers to simply accept the kind of concessions that other public employees had made.
''BART employees currently do not contribute anything toward their pension,'' he said. ''The BART district pays for both the employer's share and the employee's share, which is very unusual in the state of California.''
According to BART, train operators and station agents earn on average $60,000 in annual salary and more than $11,000 in overtime.
With daily ridership expected to grow to 750,000 over the next decade, BART needs to upgrade its 40-year-old system, Mr. Allison said.
The unions are asking for improvements to workers' safety, including better lighting in stations and on tracks.
BART ran chartered buses out of some stations. Ferries between Oakland and San Francisco swelled with passengers. The morning commute was not paralyzed as some had feared, perhaps because many commuters had made alternative arrangements.
But Haruna Matsuda, 35, did not watch the news while dressing for her waitressing job in downtown San Francisco. ''I came here to get on BART, and the whole place is empty,'' she said at the MacArthur station. ''Oh, my God, how am I supposed to get to work?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, drivers in Oakland, Calif., heading toward the Bay Bridge on Monday, the first morning of the BART strike. A ferry crowded with commuters and their bicycles leaving the dock in Oakland for the trip to San Francisco. Bottom, a picket line at a BART station. About 2,400 employees went on strike after their contract expired. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (92%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TRAINS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (89%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); STRIKES (78%); FERRIES (78%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (77%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (73%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (71%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (71%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (52%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%); AMALGAMATED TRANSIT UNION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



37 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: North Carolina's Deep Cut to Jobless Benefits Takes Effect Amid a Storm of Protest

BYLINE: By ALAN BLINDER

 BODY:
North Carolina's sharp cuts in benefits to the unemployed went into effect this week, amid a swelling public outcry.
The far-reaching changes enacted by the Republican-controlled legislature in February decreased the maximum benefit payout by more than one-third, which will result in a decline in the average weekly benefit, making the state ineligible for about $700 million in federal aid. The measure also reduced the number of weeks residents can receive unemployment aid.
The overhaul was the centerpiece of a renewed protest in Raleigh on Monday, the ninth organized in recent months by the N.A.A.C.P. and an expanding roster of allies. Critics said the state's agenda was undermining the economic stability of residents. 
''They are literally hurting people, and it is wrong,'' said the Rev. Dr. William J. Barber II, the president of the North Carolina chapter of the N.A.A.C.P. ''It's about violating people's deepest moral values. Even when you have a majority, you're not allowed to violate moral values.''
North Carolina, which has the fifth-highest jobless rate in the nation, at 8.8 percent, acted in an attempt to eliminate a debt to the federal government of more than $2 billion, legislators said.
Along with the reductions in unemployment benefits, the state imposed higher taxes on businesses. The changes are expected to help North Carolina pay off its debt to Washington in 2015, three years earlier than first planned.
''We're responsible for making sure that all North Carolinians have a sound state government,'' said State Representative George Cleveland, a Republican sponsor of the proposal, which won bipartisan backing. ''This was a necessary step in that direction.''
The average unemployment benefit in North Carolina for the first quarter of 2013 was $298.90 a week, according to the United States Department of Labor.
When he signed the bill into law, Gov. Pat McCrory said the measure would ''ensure our citizens' unemployment safety net is secure and financially sound for future generations and help provide an economic climate that allows job creators to start hiring again.''
But critics argue that the proposal unfairly strikes at the state's poor and unemployed and allows businesses to escape without significant sacrifice.
''From where I stand, the main motivation was to come up with a plan to repay as fast as possible with little or no taxes being raised on employers,'' said Bill Rowe, the director of advocacy at the North Carolina Justice Center, a research and advocacy organization.
By trimming unemployment benefits as it did, North Carolina abandoned its participation in a federal Labor Department program that helps jobless residents whose state payouts have run their course.
States lose their eligibility if they decrease average weekly benefits, although they are permitted to make other changes to fine-tune their individual programs, said George Wentworth of the National Employment Law Project, a policy group.
He added that the Labor Department, which said North Carolina's exit from the program would affect 170,000 residents by the end of the year, had no authority to maintain the payments in the wake of the overhaul.
And one week after the police arrested nearly 120 people at a ''Moral Monday'' demonstration, a record for the growing social movement, its supporters predicted that the cuts would attract larger crowds to Raleigh. (Monday's protest led to at least 75 arrests, The Associated Press reported.)
''The unemployment benefit cuts are the first real-world impact of the radical, regressive agenda that this legislature has adopted. The pain is starting to be real,'' said Penda Hair, a co-director of the Washington-based Advancement Project, a civil rights group that has provided assistance to Moral Monday organizers. ''The momentum has built every week. I would expect to see large numbers of people turning out.''
Republican lawmakers, including Mr. Cleveland, said the protests would not influence their position.
''It's their right to be there,'' Mr. Cleveland said of the demonstrators. ''It doesn't solidify or change any of my thinking.''
But others said they believed the protests would ultimately carry weight.
''People may be saying it doesn't matter, but I can't imagine how you could avoid being affected by that many people coming each week,'' Mr. Rowe said. ''I think in the long run, it will.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A woman was arrested June 24 at the North Carolina legislature in Raleigh during a protest of the state's social policies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GERRY BROOME/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); JOB CREATION (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (64%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (83%)

PERSON: PAT MCCRORY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RALEIGH, NC, USA (92%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



38 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Winklevoss Twins Plan First Fund For Bitcoins

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER and PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Bitcoin has been promoted as an alternative crypto-currency that exists outside the realms of governments and central banks. Now, two backers of the digital money are seeking to bring bitcoin into the investing mainstream -- if they win the approval of the United States government.
Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the twins best known for their part in the history of Facebook, filed a proposal with securities regulators on Monday that would allow any investor to trade bitcoins, just as if they were stocks. The plan involves an exchange-traded fund, which usually tracks a basket of stocks or a commodity, but in this case would hold only bitcoins.
It is part of a broader effort to remove the stigma hovering over bitcoin and other online money endeavors, which have faced a barrage of regulatory questions and enforcement actions. Recently the world's largest trading exchange for bitcoins, Mt.Gox, filed with the Treasury Department to register itself as a money services business and comply with money-laundering laws.
The proposal from the twins, who already have sizable bitcoin holdings, is an audacious one: the Winklevoss Bitcoin Trust could send digital money from the realm of computer programmers, Internet entrepreneurs and a small circle of professional investors like themselves into the hands of retail investors -- virtually anyone with a brokerage account. 
''The trust brings bitcoin to Main Street and mainstream investors to bitcoin,'' said Tyler Winklevoss, co-founder of Math-Based Asset Services, which would operate the proposed fund. ''It eliminates the friction of buying and reduces the risks associated with storing bitcoin while offering similar investment attributes to direct ownership.''
Their proposal has the advantage of coming from the desk of Kathleen Moriarty, a lawyer at Katten Muchin, who played a leading role in the creation of the first exchange-traded fund and popular gold- and silver-backed E.T.F.'s.
But it is far from certain that securities regulators will approve. Even if they do, such a fund would face major challenges, including the current bottlenecks that stop bitcoins from being easily bought and sold.
''There are so many ways it could go wrong,'' said Ugo Egbunike, a senior specialist in exchange-traded funds at the data company Index Universe.
On Monday, several market participants suggested that the proposal was a long shot that was merely an attempt to legitimize the digital currency. But Cameron Winklevoss expressed confidence that regulators would bless the new investment.
''We have assembled a team that has successfully launched novel products before, and we firmly believe in the chances of success for this product,'' he said.
The filing is the latest eye-catching development in bitcoin's history since it was founded by an anonymous hacker, or hackers, in 2009.
Unlike traditional money, bitcoins exist in no physical form and are not backed by a central bank. Instead, the coins are created by a network of users who solve complex mathematical problems -- a method known as ''mining'' -- to generate bitcoins. Only a finite number of bitcoins can be created -- 21 million -- with the current count at about 11 million. A limited number of stores and Web sites are accepting bitcoin as payment, but for now it is primarily a vehicle for speculators.
''The value of bitcoins is determined by the value that various market participants place on bitcoins through their transactions,'' the brothers' filing says.
The currency grabbed the attention of global markets in April when the value of a single bitcoin spiked to more than $250 from $110, before plummeting. While there were questions about the survival of the currency, the value of a bitcoin has recently hovered around $100, making the total market worth about $1 billion.
During the April swoon, the Winklevosses went public with their own bitcoin hoard, amounting to about 1 percent of all outstanding coins, or about $10 million.
Bitcoins can currently only be bought and sold on informal computer networks and on online marketplaces that require substantial technological savvy and are far more complicated than traditional exchanges. The inaccessibility, and the limited quantity of bitcoins, appeal to users who are skeptical of governments and central banks. But it has made the system vulnerable at times to hackers and technology flaws.
An exchange-traded fund would make it significantly easier to gain exposure to bitcoins, just as commodities-based funds have made investing in gold, silver and other precious metals more accessible.
The Winklevoss fund would buy one bitcoin for every five shares, making the value of a single share worth about a fifth of a single bitcoin. Regulated trading desks would have to handle the daily buying and selling of the shares. The company operated by the Winklevosses would have a proprietary method for storing the fund's bitcoin holdings and would charge an annual management fee, which is not specified in the filing.
Monday's submission comes at a precarious time for digital money. In May, the operators of another online currency, Liberty Reserve, were indicted on charges that they facilitated billions of dollars of money laundering. Both before and after that, state and federal regulators were scrutinizing many players in the growing bitcoin economy, including the largest place to buy and sell the coins, the Tokyo-based Mt.Gox.
Before Mt.Gox registered with the Treasury Department's Financial Crimes Enforcement Network, some of its accounts in the United States were frozen. The company temporarily stopped its American customers from cashing out while it said it was ''making improvements.''
Mt.Gox's difficulties highlight the risks that could confront the owner of shares in a bitcoin fund. The securities filing made Monday has 18 pages of ''risk factors,'' noting, among other concerns, the heavy presence of speculators and ''an uncertain regulatory landscape.''
Mr. Egbunike said regulators may hesitate to approve the proposal because of the questions surrounding bitcoins and recent scrutiny of exchange-traded funds more broadly. While such funds have made the buying and selling of commodities and other complicated financial assets easier for retail investors, they have given these investors access to products that they may not understand. For current bitcoin aficionados, an E.T.F. could diminish the currency's free-spirited appeal.
But even if the Winklevosses' proposal fails, some industry experts said that it marks a significant signpost in the push to give virtual currencies at least a veneer of respectability.
''Digital currencies are not going away,'' said Carol Van Cleef, the head of law firm Patton Boggs's emerging-payments practice. ''And as bitcoin rises in popularity, you're going to see traditional financial products and services being adapted to it.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tyler, left, and Cameron Winklevoss in April, when they said they had $10 million in bitcoins. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGATON STROM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) CHART: Wild Ride: The price of a bitcoin on an exchange that converts them to dollars was around $90 on Monday, well below the high of $266 it reached in April, but up from $13 earlier this year. (Source: bitcoincharts.com) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); APPROVALS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); LAWYERS (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (71%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (68%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (67%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (63%); MONEY LAUNDERING (52%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); KATTEN MUCHIN ROSENMAN LLP (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (53%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



39 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OPINIONATOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not Braise The Planet

BYLINE: By MARK BITTMAN

 BODY:
According to a report released by the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace last month, we are not running out of fossil fuels anytime soon. Since the dawn of the industrial revolution we've used around 1.2 trillion barrels of oil; the report estimates that with current technology we can produce roughly five times that much. With future technologies, it may well be that the suffering sky is the limit.
This reduces the issue of conversion to clean energy to one of ethics and intent. Our ability to turn around the rate of carbon emissions and slow the engine that can conflagrate the world is certain. But do we have the will? 
The chief economist at the International Energy Agency recommends leaving two-thirds of all fossil fuels in the ground. Makes sense to me, but if you're an oil executive scarcely being charged for the global damage your industry causes (an effective annual subsidy, says the International Monetary Fund, of nearly $2 trillion, money that would be better spent subsidizing nonpolluting energy sources), responsible to your shareholders and making a fortune, would you start erecting windmills?Here's the answer: According to Rolling Stone, just this spring, BP put its $3.1 billion United States wind farm operation up for sale. Last year, ConocoPhillips divested itself of its alternative-energy activities. Shell, with its ''Let's Go'' campaign to ''broaden the world's energy mix,'' spends less than 2 percent of its expenditures on ''alternatives.''Mining oil, gas and coal is making some people rich while braising the planet for all of us. It's difficult to think ahead, especially with climate change deniers sowing doubt and unfounded fears of unemployment, but we owe quick and decisive action on greenhouse gas reduction not only to ourselves but to billions of people not yet born. ''People give less weight to the future, but that's a brain bug,'' the philosopher Peter Singer told me. ''We should have equal concern for everyone wherever and whenever they live.''
There's reason for optimism thanks to renewable energy standards in most states, California's groundbreaking cap-and-trade law and President Obama's directive to the Environmental Protection Agency last week. But this isn't nearly enough, and you have to hope that the president is now fully engaged in progressive energy policy and isn't merely preparing us for disappointment should he approve of Keystone XL.
Three things worth noting: Most politicians prefer adaptation to mitigation -- that is, they'd rather build houses on stilts than reduce emissions; energy independence is in no way synonymous with ''clean'' energy; and the oft-stated notion that ''since gas burns cleaner than coal and oil, we should be moving toward gas'' puts us on the highway to hell.
Make no mistake: when it comes to climate change gas isn't ''clean,'' because undetermined amounts of methane -- a powerful greenhouse gas -- leak into the atmosphere from natural gas production.
The answer is zero emission energy. Even moderate changes can help, but cuts in the use of fossil fuels must be much deeper than the president is directing, and this may not happen unless we rid Congress of friends of Big Energy. (By one count the House's 125 climate-change deniers have taken $30 million in contributions from energy companies.)
Investments in zero-carbon energy are relatively inexpensive and good for the economy, and the cost of business as usual is higher than the cost of even expensive carbon pricing. But it's tough -- pointless? -- to make these arguments to the energy companies and their Congressional lackeys, who will fight as they have been effectively paid to do.
Unless we quickly put a steep and real price on all carbon emissions, our inaction will doom our not-too-distant descendants. ''Really,'' says Dan Lashof, the director of the Natural Resources Defense Council's climate and clean air program, ''we need a comprehensive approach to reduce carbon pollution from all sources. What form that takes -- caps, taxes, or standards -- is far less important than how soon we get it in place.''
Americans and Western Europeans have been the primary beneficiaries of the lifestyle that accelerated climate change, and, of course are among the primary emitters of greenhouse gases. For the first 200-plus years of the fossil fuel age, we could claim ignorance of its lasting harm; we cannot do that now.
With knowledge comes responsibility, and with that responsibility must come action. As the earth's stewards, our individual changes are important, but this is a bigger deal than replacing light bulbs or riding a bike. Let's make working to turn emissions around a litmus test for every politician who asks for our vote.
Imagine a democracy across space, time and class, where legislative bodies represented not only those living in the world's low-lying areas but their great-grandchildren -- and ours. Or imagine that our elected representatives were proxies for those people. Imagine those representatives determining our current energy policy. Is there any doubt that things would change more rapidly?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WIND ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); ETHICS (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); DIVESTITURES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (64%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%)

COMPANY: CONOCOPHILLIPS (84%); S A BRAIN & CO LTD (64%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (56%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (56%)

TICKER: COP (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (84%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



40 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: Revolution, Hanging By a Thread

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
REVOLUTIONARY SUMMERThe Birth of American Independence
By Joseph J. EllisIllustrated. 219 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
In his 1783 Farewell Address to the Army, George Washington called the perseverance of the ''Armies of the United States'' through eight long years of war, ''little short of a standing Miracle'' and though not a deeply religious man, he thanked the ''singular interpositions of Providence'' for his troops' survival and ultimate triumph.
The Continental Army was never more vulnerable to extinction than in the summer of 1776, when the mighty British Army and Navy, what the historian Joseph J. Ellis has called ''the most powerful and efficient machine for waging war in the world'' at the time, had the opportunity to destroy it in New York. Instead, an assortment of military decisions, together with chance and some fortuitous fluctuations in the weather, enabled the ragtag American troops to escape annihilation and fight another day. 
It is Mr. Ellis's contention in his fast-paced new book, ''Revolutionary Summer,'' that the period between May and October of 1776 was ''the crescendo moment in American history,'' when a strategic framework for the war developed, a consensus in favor of American independence was reached, and the outlines for an American republic were first proposed. This argument feels less like a genuine historical insight than a somewhat strained conceit to explain the limited scope of Mr. Ellis's book and to differentiate it from, say, David McCullough's 2005 best-seller, ''1776,'' which itself offered a somewhat arbitrarily abbreviated chronicle of the Revolutionary War.
Much of this volume's narrative amounts to a repurposing of material Mr. Ellis has laid out in enterprising earlier books like ''Founding Brothers,'' and in absorbing, psychologically astute portraits of individual members of the revolutionary generation including George Washington, Thomas Jefferson and the cantankerous John Adams. But no matter: Mr. Ellis writes with such élan and deep understanding of this era and its exceptional leaders that anyone interested in a succinct (if strangely truncated) account of this crucial period in American history will eagerly seize upon this volume.
Giving us a sort of stereoscopic history, Mr. Ellis conveys how participants experienced the pell-mell rush of momentous events as they occurred, even as he steps back to show how retrospective wisdom would later judge their many decisions made on the run. He even shows us how the now-revered Declaration of Independence was, at the time, regarded as a ''minor administrative chore,'' one taken on by Jefferson only after Benjamin Franklin and John Adams spurned the opportunity. Jefferson would regard the 85 revisions or deletions made to his text by the other members of the Continental Congress, Mr. Ellis says, as defacements, complaining to friends in Virginia that the congress had diluted the purity of his message.
Throughout this book, Mr. Ellis weaves together the political story of how the 13 colonies came together and agreed to secede from the British Empire with the military story of how the British ''delivered a series of devastating defeats to an American army of amateurs'' on Long Island and Manhattan, but ''missed whatever chance existed to end it all.''
Frequently, Mr. Ellis observes, decisions being made by the Continental Congress were shaped by military events on the ground -- and vice versa. George III's rejection of political reconciliation and the approaching flotilla of his troops helped galvanize the decision of the colonies to commit to ''The Cause'' of American independence. The need not to appear militarily weak and vulnerable when independence was about to be declared similarly put pressure on Washington and the Continental Army to defend New York City, and not allow the British to occupy the town without a fight.
Unfortunately, Washington's forces were at a huge disadvantage. The British brothers Richard and William Howe commanded, Mr. Ellis writes, a strike force of 42,000 soldiers, marines and sailors, ''by far the largest military operation ever mounted in North America.'' The American Army, in contrast, was a poorly equipped start-up operation made up of ''former indentured servants; recent Irish immigrants; unemployed artisans; blacksmiths, and carpenters'' -- ''a motley crew of marginal men and misfits, most wearing hunting shirts instead of uniforms.''
Because enlistments for most troops were for only a year, Mr. Ellis writes, ''the Continental Army would become a permanent turnstile, different soldiers always coming and going, so that by the time they had learned the rudiments of military life, they were replaced by inexperienced recruits.''
The Battle of Long Island (fought largely in Brooklyn) ended badly for the Americans, as the untested and poorly trained soldiers ignored their superiors' orders and scattered. Not only were there several hundred American casualties and nearly 1,000 were taken prisoner, Mr. Ellis says, but it also became clear that ''the will of the Continental Army had been broken and any semblance of military discipline destroyed.'' Convinced of the inevitability of British victory, reluctant to lose too many of his own men and eager to end the war with diplomatic reconciliation rather than military victory, General Richard Howe did not press his advantage and try to finish off the Americans.
Instead, Washington managed what Mr. Ellis calls ''one of the most brilliant tactical withdrawals in the annals of military history'': getting nearly 10,000 men from Brooklyn to Manhattan across the East River, a body of water controlled by the British Navy. This feat was achieved with a combination of secrecy, expertise (a Massachusetts regiment of experienced Marblehead fishermen and seamen was a key to the evacuation over water) and cooperative weather, which brought favorable winds and the sudden descent of a dense fog on Aug. 30 that magically cloaked the escape of the last of the troops.
Because Mr. Ellis has defined the scope of this book as the summer of 1776, his narrative ends rather abruptly with the retreat of Washington's troops from Manhattan to White Plains in October -- a move that Mr. Ellis says was ''the end of the beginning for the American side'': ''Washington, from lessons learned at New York, would never again allow the survival of the Continental Army to be put at risk. Though it ran counter to all his instincts, he now realized that his goal was not to win the war but rather to not lose it.'' It became increasingly clear that the war was going to be a protracted conflict -- a development that did not favor an occupying army based across an ocean.
Missing from this volume is any meaningful discussion of the other momentous events of 1776, including Washington's famous crossing of the Delaware River and his morale-boosting surprise victory in Trenton. Mr. Ellis cites a British staff officer's account, which suggests that the likelihood of a British victory diminished with the failure of General Howe to destroy the Continental Army in 1776 for three specific reasons: As Washington adopted a more defensive strategy, chances of a decisive engagement grew less likely; the Continental Army improved with experience, especially with the development of a more professional officer corps; and the Franco-American treaty of 1778 provided the Americans with vital manpower and money.
Would the destruction of the Continental Army have ended the war and squashed the American rebellion in its infancy? On this question, Mr. Ellis is noncommital: ''While we can never know for sure,'' he writes, ''the balance of historical scholarship over the last 40 years has made that a highly problematic assumption.'' It's possible, he writes, that ''as both Adams and Franklin sincerely believed, the Continental Congress would have defiantly raised another army and appointed another version of Washington to lead it.'' On the other hand, even if the founders had been able to cobble together a second Continental Army, how likely is it -- given Mr. Ellis's descriptions of Washington's singular strengths in ''His Excellency'' -- that they could have found ''another version'' of him to lead it?

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Joseph J. Ellis (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIK JACOBS) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); ARMIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



41 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Sees Opportunity for Election Gains in Obama's Climate Change Policy

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
When President Obama announced strong measures to combat climate change last week, environmentalists who felt he had long soft-pedaled the issue for political reasons rejoiced.
But many Republicans were just as gleeful -- in the belief they had been handed a powerful issue to use against Democrats in the 2014 midterm elections in energy-rich states from Texas to Minnesota.
Elected officials and political analysts said the president's crackdown on coal, the leading source of industrial greenhouse gases, could have consequences for Senate seats being vacated by retiring Democrats in West Virginia and South Dakota, for shaky Democratic incumbents like Mary L. Landrieu of energy-rich Louisiana, and for the Democratic challenger of Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
In ordering limits for the first time on carbon dioxide emissions from up-and-running power plants, Mr. Obama jabbed that opponents belonged to ''the Flat Earth Society.'' But in coal country, it was Mr. Obama who was called out of touch, with predictions of job losses and spiking energy bills. 
Republicans immediately went on the attack against Democratic House members in mining states, posting Web ads with a 2008 sound bite of Mr. Obama predicting regulating carbon emissions would cause electricity prices to ''necessarily skyrocket.''
Asked about the impact of the president's actions on his own re-election prospects next year, Representative Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia, said, ''They don't help.''
In Kentucky, Alison Lundergan Grimes, the Democratic secretary of state, announced on Monday that she would take on Mr. McConnell in 2014, and was immediately attacked by national Republicans as being joined at the hip to the president in a ''desire to destroy the coal industry.'' Al Cross, director of the Institute for Rural Journalism and Community Issues at the University of Kentucky, noted that Mr. Obama had rarely mentioned global warming during his re-election campaign because ''he had to carry Ohio -- that's a coal state.''
''Now, he has no more elections to win, and he can play his real cards,'' Mr. Cross said. ''He was already the most anti-coal president we've ever had, and now he's doubled down. That is not good for Kentucky Democrats in any shape, form or fashion.''
In states rich in energy resources, which have turned increasingly red in recent years, the Democrats who survived have often done so by declaring independence from the national party.
Joe Manchin III, a Democratic former governor of West Virginia, won a Senate seat in the midst of the Tea Party wave of 2010 by attacking gun control and environmental regulations. In a celebrated campaign ad, he aimed a rifle shot at a copy of the president's 2009 cap-and-trade bill, which was designed to reduce carbon emissions, before Senate Republicans killed it.
Mr. Rahall moved quickly last week to distance himself from the president, sounding nearly as hostile as the billboards dotting coal country bought by mining interests that declare ''Obama's No Jobs Zone.''
He said he was ''profoundly disappointed'' by the president's new initiative. ''I'm not ever, ever, ever going to back away from fighting for our coal miners,'' he said.
Ty Matsdorf, director of the Senate Majority PAC, which supports Democratic candidates but does not donate to them directly, said each one would run a race tailored to state issues.
''If they're going to have to diverge with the president at times, they will,'' he said.
Republicans countered that on this issue Democrats can run but they cannot hide. The president's climate initiative ''is a problem for every Democrat,'' said Representative Shelley Moore Capito, Republican of West Virginia, who is seeking the Senate seat next year that has opened with the retirement of John D. Rockefeller IV, a Democrat. ''You are, for better or worse, a part of the party that you put your name on the ballot with.''
Liesl Hickey, executive director of the National Republican Congressional Committee, said Democrats in energy-rich states ''should take a long look at former Congressman Ben Chandler.''
Mr. Chandler is a Kentucky Democrat who was first elected in 2004. Last year, he was aggressively pegged as anti-coal by a Republican challenger, Andy Barr, who ran an ad with a man in miner's gear calling Mr. Chandler a ''low life.''
Even though his district, centered on Lexington, contains no working coal mines, ''there's a cultural affinity for coal'' in Kentucky, Mr. Chandler said. ''Barr made it a huge part of his campaign.''
''It was a campaign to cause people to believe the president was waging a war on them,'' he said. Mr. Chandler lost the election.
Despite repeated accusations that the Obama administration uses environmental regulations to wage a ''war on coal,'' the steep decline in mining jobs in recent years has also been driven by powerful market forces -- mechanization of mining and the conversion of coal-fired plants to cheaper natural gas.
With fewer jobs, mine workers, who once fiercely battled owners, have aligned their interests with the industry, and rural regions from Arkansas to Pennsylvania with a history of supporting Democrats now send Republicans to Washington.
''It's culture, it's not economics,'' said Representative John Yarmuth, Democrat of Kentucky. ''When you do something that is not in the interest of coal, then some people perceive that as attacking the entire Eastern Kentucky culture.''
With no hope of prodding Congress on climate change, Mr. Obama said last week that he would use his executive powers to enact rules to reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent by 2020, compared with 2005.
His order stems from a 2007 decision by the Supreme Court that directed the Environmental Protection Agency to rule whether carbon dioxide was a pollutant under the Clean Air Act. In 2009, the E.P.A. said that it was. Last week, speaking at Georgetown University, Mr. Obama told the agency to complete rules for new power plants by the end of September and for existing plants in one year.
Environmental groups applauded the initiatives even as one report said 37,000 jobs at coal-fired plants were threatened.
Ms. Hickey of the Republican Congressional committee predicted 2014 would be a reprise of the 2010 midterm elections, when Republicans racked up huge gains in the House by attacking the president's health care overhaul and failed cap-and-trade plan.
But the group, which supports electing Republicans to the House from around the country, identified only seven Democratic incumbents to target in Web attack ads on the issue. They included Mr. Rahall of West Virginia, Pete Gallego of Texas and two representatives from rural Minnesota districts, Rick Nolan and Collin C. Peterson.
The reality of the political map is that there are already very few House seats in Democratic hands in energy-rich states. David Axelrod, the president's longtime strategist, said that whatever price Democrats paid would be small in the context of an energy picture in which oil imports have declined sharply and a natural gas boom has lowered overall energy costs.
''I would argue that ultimately the politics of regulating harmful emissions is pretty good,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The coal-fired Big Sandy Power Plant in Kentucky, which is one of the states where energy issues are expected to loom large in the 2014 elections. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SHAWN POYNTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10)
 Representatives Nick J. Rahall II, left, and Rick Nolan, center, are targeted for 2014 as Ben Chandler, right, was last year. (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATE CHANGE (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); COAL INDUSTRY (76%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); COAL MINING (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); GUN CONTROL (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); POWER PLANTS (71%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (66%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (66%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

COMPANY: SA COAL WASTE ENGINEERING (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BEN CHANDLER (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); MARY LANDRIEU (57%); NICK J RAHALL II (57%); JOE MANCHIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KENTUCKY, USA (94%); WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



42 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Emilio Colombo, 93, Dies; Former Italian Premier

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN

 BODY:
Emilio Colombo, the prime minister of Italy at the start of the 1970s who curbed roaring inflation, battled political extremism and legalized divorce in his country while helping to build an integrated Europe, died on June 24 in Rome. He was 93.
His office announced the death. 
After World War II, Italian governments formed and fell with dizzying regularity, as did cabinet posts within the governments. Mr. Colombo emerged from Roman Catholic youth organizations to win a seat in Parliament at 26 and then held virtually every major cabinet position -- agriculture, trade, finance, foreign affairs -- before he became prime minister for 18 months between 1970 and 1972. The government he headed, centrist in its policies, was Italy's 32nd since the war.
Mr. Colombo helped write some of Italy's basic postwar reforms, including those that redistributed land to the poor, nationalized electricity production and spurred development in the nation's impoverished South.
A self-described technocrat, Mr. Colombo wrote much of the Treaty of Rome, which in 1958 established the European Economic Community, a precursor to the European Community and the European Union. Martin Schulz, president of the European Parliament, said in a statement that Mr. Colombo was ''a key figure in Italian history and European integration.''
As prime minister, Mr. Colombo, a member of the conservative Christian Democratic Party, juggled his and three other parties to form coalitions that would keep power from falling to the Communists, whose political strength in Italy exceeded that of any country in Western Europe. He also faced down the neo-Fascist right, survived waves of strikes and violence, and imposed new and higher taxes to successfully fight galloping inflation.
His foreign policy included establishing diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China and maintaining Italy's strong support for the United States.
Communists said the Central Intelligence Agency had interfered in Italian politics on behalf of the Christian Democrats. Mr. Colombo denied the accusation. But in his 2007 book, ''Legacy of Ashes: The History of the CIA,'' Tim Weiner, a former reporter for The New York Times, quoted former C.I.A. employees in Rome as saying that they had indeed distributed $25 million to anti-Communist parties in Italy beginning in 1970.
Mr. Colombo's coalition collapsed in February 1972, partly over his signing, in 1970, of Italy's first law legitimizing divorce. Like the Vatican, his own Christian Democrats opposed the legislation, while leftist members of the coalition demanded it.
In 1974, the law survived an attempt at a repeal, with 59.3 percent voting to support it.
Emilio Colombo was born on April 11, 1920, to a lower middle-class family in Potenza, 100 miles southeast of Naples. A bishop in his home region persuaded him to go into politics. Many called him ''Cardinal Colombo'' because of his strong faith.
Mr. Colombo earned a law degree from the University of Rome and joined Catholic Action Youth, a Vatican-backed political organization, rising to vice president and gaining enough prominence to win a seat in Parliament in 1946. That year he was elected to a convention charged with writing a new republican constitution to replace Italy's monarchy. He was the last surviving member of that constitutional convention.
In 1948, after being re-elected to Parliament, Mr. Colombo was given his first leadership post, undersecretary of agriculture. He used the position to develop programs to help his native region in the South.
Mr. Colombo was twice foreign minister, in 1980-83 and 1992-93. In his first term, he was a strong backer of American plans to base medium-range ballistic missiles in Europe. A Soviet radio commentary said a long article he wrote on the subject sounded as if it had been written in Washington by the State Department.
Mr. Colombo was known for his total immersion in politics, which he considered ''a priesthood,'' a Milan newspaper wrote in 1970. He wore dull ties and well-pressed suits, and his crispness of bearing prompted a friend to suggest that he needed only an umbrella to be British.
In 2003, just after being appointed a senator for life, Mr. Colombo disclosed that he had used cocaine three or four times a week for more than a year. He said that he had used the drug for ''therapeutic purposes,'' and that he was making the admission to prevent his bodyguards from being prosecuted as his procurers. Consumption of cocaine in Italy is not a criminal offense, but trafficking is.
At the same time, Mr. Colombo also disclosed that he was homosexual. For years he had told interviewers that he was too busy to marry. Information on survivors was unavailable.
When Mr. Colombo visited the United States in 1971, an editorial in The Times praised his political agility, saying he had ''surmounted more perils than Pauline.''
His sense of humor surely helped. When meeting with Mayor John V. Lindsay, who was grappling with huge fiscal challenges in New York City, Mr. Colombo invited him to Rome if he wanted to see real problems.
''I believe this would be a great source of comfort for you,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emilio Colombo in March. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBERTO LINGRIA/A.F.P./GETTY IMAGES)
 Prime Minister Emilio Colombo of Italy with President Richard Nixon during a visit to the White House in 1971. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GEORGE TAMES/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); RELIGION (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); WORLD WAR II (72%); EUROPEAN UNION LAW (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (62%); AGRICULTURE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (82%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (94%) ITALY (99%); EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); HOLY SEE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



43 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Joyous Croatia Joins Europe Amid a Crisis

BYLINE: By DAN BILEFSKY

 BODY:
PARIS -- Croatia became the 28th member of the European Union on Monday, a joyous moment for the small, predominantly Roman Catholic country about 20 years after it won independence in the bloody wars of the Balkans.
With Europe shaken by financial crisis, Croatia's accession offers a rare moment of satisfaction for the union, underlining how a country's desire to join the world's biggest trading bloc can push it to make difficult economic and political changes.
Since the end of the cold war, the European bloc's soft power, its ability to press for concessions, has been a powerful foreign policy tool and an alternative to American military might. In the case of Croatia, the incentive of joining the union pushed it to revamp a statist post-Communist economy, pass more than 350 laws and arrest more than a dozen Croatian and Bosnian-Croat war criminals. 
In return, Croatia stands to benefit from gaining access to a market of 500 million consumers as well as about $18 billion in financing earmarked for the country from 2014 to 2020.
Kosovo and Serbia recently signed a power-sharing agreement aimed at overcoming ethnic enmities and proving to Brussels that they have the European credentials to join the bloc. On Friday, they were rewarded for their efforts, with Serbia gaining the go-ahead to start entry negotiations in January and Kosovo gaining closer trade, economic and political ties.
The accession of Croatia is an important step in the European integration of one of Europe's poorest regions. Bosnia and Herzegovina, Kosovo, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia -- nations carved from the former Yugoslavia -- are all hoping to join the bloc. Slovenia joined in 2004.
Croatia's entry is the bloc's first enlargement since 2007.
To mark the occasion in Zagreb, Croatia's capital, thousands of Croats turned out to celebrate. Fireworks exploded, and Beethoven's ''Ode to Joy'' was played at midnight. ''This will change the life of this nation for good,'' Herman Van Rompuy, the president of the European Council, told the crowd. ''I welcome you wholeheartedly.''
But many Croats remain ambivalent about joining a divided union mired in a crippling debt crisis that has plagued Greece, Italy, Spain and others and pushed some members to the brink of bankruptcy. While Croatia is not joining the euro zone, the source of the worst of Europe's economic problems, it is nevertheless in recession and has an unemployment rate of 21 percent.
Alluding to the challenges of entering a club in decline, President Ivo Josipovic of Croatia told Nova TV on Saturday that he was repeatedly asked by journalists from other European countries why his country wanted to join.
''My counterquestion was, 'You come from the E.U. Is your country preparing to leave the bloc?' '' he said. ''They would invariably reply, 'Of course not.' Well, there you go, that's why we are joining, because we also believe the E.U. has a future.''
If some Croats are cautious about membership, many countries in the bloc remain wary of expansion, fearing that an overstretched European Union will become unmanageable. The problem of endemic corruption in new member countries from the east like Bulgaria and Romania has also fanned fears in Brussels that countries are being admitted too quickly, and importing lawlessness and graft into the bloc.
Transparency International ranked Croatia as the 62nd most troubled nation out of 176 countries in its 2012 corruption perception index, which ranks countries based on how corrupt their public sector is perceived to be. Marko Prelec, Balkans director at the International Crisis Group in Sarajevo, noted that Croatia was an important test case for whether other countries in the region would be allowed into the union. ''If Croatia turns into a problem child for the E.U., then it's going to be next to impossible for anyone else to join,'' he said. ''But if it goes well, then the doors will be open for its neighbors, too.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Croatia's flag was raised Monday during a ceremony at the European Parliament in Strasbourg, France. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FREDERICK FLORIN/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EURO CRISIS (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); RECESSION (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); DEBT CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); EURO (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (73%); RELIGION (73%); WAR CRIMES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) ALSACE, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); CROATIA (99%); SERBIA (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); KOSOVO (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); FRANCE (90%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (89%); MACEDONIA, THE FORMER YUGOSLAV REPUBLIC OF (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); BELGIUM (79%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (79%); SLOVENIA (79%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



44 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Going Private

BYLINE: By WILLIAM ALDEN

 BODY:
2:49 p.m. | Updated
The maker of Steinway & Sons pianos is hoping that a duet with private equity will be a harmonious one.
Steinway Musical Instruments announced on Monday that it had agreed to be acquired by the private equity firm Kohlberg & Company in a deal worth roughly $438 million. 
The offer of $35 a share represents a 33 percent premium over Steinway's average closing price in the 90 trading days that ended June 28. Compared with the average closing price during the 52 weeks that ended June 28, the offer represents a premium of 45 percent, the company said.
Steinway's stock jumped at the start of trading on Monday, rising more than 15 percent, to just above $35 a share. (The company's ticker symbol, LVB, is a reference to the initials of Ludwig van Beethoven.)
The deal is the latest twist for the 160-year-old piano maker, whose instruments can be found in concert halls and living rooms around the world. In recent years, the company, which is based in Waltham, Mass., has had to adjust to a weak economy and changing cultural tastes.
In March, the company reached an agreement to sell Steinway Hall, the 88-year-old building across the street from Carnegie Hall in Manhattan where renowned pianists and amateurs alike have tried out pianos.
Kohlberg & Company, a firm co-founded by Jerome Kohlberg (who previously was one of the founders of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company), emphasized that it would aim to preserve Steinway's storied heritage.
In buying Steinway, the firm plans to ''accelerate its global expansion, while ensuring the artisanal manufacturing processes that make the company's products unique are preserved, celebrated and treasured,'' Christopher W. Anderson, a Kohlberg & Company partner, said in a statement.
The company, founded in 1853 in a Manhattan loft by Henry Engelhard Steinway and his three sons, expanded rapidly to become the world's largest piano manufacturer by 1860. It opened a factory in Hamburg, Germany, in 1880, and toasted its success in 1925 with the opening of Steinway Hall on West 57th Street in New York.
The company was acquired by Selmer Industries in 1995 and, under the name Steinway Musical Instruments, went public the following year. In addition to its flagship pianos, the company sells trumpets, saxophones, French horns, drums and other instruments. It has long had a factory in Astoria, Queens; after years of being a tenant there, it bought back the building in 1999.
''Our agreement with Kohlberg represents an exceptional valuation for our shareholders, while also representing an important next step in the growth of Steinway,'' Michael Sweeney, chairman and interim chief executive of Steinway, said in a statement. ''We are delighted that they recognize the bright future for Steinway as well as value our great heritage.''
The deal provides for a so-called go-shop period of 45 days in which Steinway can invite rival bids. Otherwise, the transaction is expected to close in the third quarter of this year.
Steinway is being advised bey Allen & Company and the law firms Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom and Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher. Kohlberg & Company is being advised by the law firm Ropes & Gray.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (92%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (91%); GOING PRIVATE (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); MUSIC (90%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MANAGEMENT BUYOUTS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); ACQUISITIONS (72%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: KOHLBERG & CO LLC (93%); STEINWAY MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS INC (92%); KKR & CO LP (66%); STEINWAY & SONS (58%); CARNEGIE HALL CORP (55%)

TICKER: LVB (NYSE) (92%); KKR (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (93%); NAICS339992 MUSICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3931 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (75%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) GERMANY (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



45 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Kerry Says Snowden Affair Will Not Upset China Relations

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON

 BODY:
BANDAR SERI BEGAWAN, Brunei -- Secretary of State John Kerry said on Monday that relations with China would not be upset by allegations that it had facilitated the flight of Edward J. Snowden, the fugitive former national security contractor.
Mr. Snowden's ability to avoid detention in Hong Kong and travel to Moscow, despite a request by the United States that he be arrested, initially led to an angry response by Obama administration officials. 
The White House last week described the development as a ''serious setback'' to American-Chinese relations, while Mr. Kerry himself warned that it would have ''consequences'' for ties with Beijing.
But after a meeting with his Chinese counterpart at a conference hosted by Southeast Asian nations here, Mr. Kerry struck a conciliatory note, casting the Snowden affair as one issue among many.
Asserting that Beijing had been helpful in pressuring North Korea to refrain from provocative actions, Mr. Kerry said that the Obama administration was committed to cooperation with China on issues ranging from maritime security to economic relations.
''Life in international relationships is often complicated by the fact that you have many things you have to work on simultaneously, and so we will continue to do that even as we are obviously concerned about what happened with Mr. Snowden,'' he said.
The comments appear to reflect a new phase in the Obama administration's handling of the Snowden affair. Instead of casting its request for the detention of Mr. Snowden as urgent business, administration officials now appear to be trying to play down the episode, perhaps recognizing that the United States' ability to force a resolution is limited.
Mr. Kerry arrived here on Monday after four days of intensive diplomacy in the Middle East that he said could put direct Israeli-Palestinian talks within reach.
A major aim of Mr. Kerry's presence here has been to demonstrate to Asian diplomats that he is no less committed to Mr. Obama's ''pivot'' to Asia than his predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton. When a reporter for The Brunei Times asked him how he could carry forward a policy of emphasizing relations with Asia when he was focusing so much on the Middle East, Mr. Kerry appeared to bristle.
''I'm here,'' said Mr. Kerry, who said it was his second visit as secretary of state to Asia. "Over the next three and a half years of the Obama presidency, you will see energized and serious engagement in continuing the rebalance efforts.''
But it was clear that the Middle East has been on his mind. During his flight to Brunei, Mr. Kerry spoke by phone to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel about issues in restarting the peace talks.
And during a news conference here, Mr. Kerry asserted that he had been so focused on his Middle East diplomacy in recent days that he was not aware of news media reports that Mr. Snowden had made available classified documents indicating that the National Security Agency had spied on the European Union.
Catherine Ashton, the European Union's foreign policy chief, who was also attending the conference here in Brunei, raised the reports with Mr. Kerry. On Sunday, Ms. Ashton issued a statement saying that she had asked the United States for an explanation.
''I honestly had not heard about it,'' Mr. Kerry told reporters, adding that he had told Ms. Ashton that he would look into the allegations and get back to her.
At the same time, Mr. Kerry seemed to be preparing a defense along the lines that many nations engage in such spying.
''I will say that every country in the world that is engaged in international affairs of national security undertakes lots of activities to protect its national security, and all kinds of information contribute to that,'' he said.
Mr. Kerry's conciliatory stance on China was similar to comments he made last week about Russia's involvement in the Snowden episode.
After warning that Russia's decision to shelter Mr. Snowden, at least temporarily, could have ''consequence'' for the Obama administration's relations with the Kremlin, Mr. Kerry softened his tone and stressed that the United States was not looking for a confrontation.
Mr. Kerry was scheduled to meet here with Sergey V. Lavrov, the Russian foreign minister, on Tuesday, and a major agenda item is Mr. Kerry's efforts to elicit Russian cooperation in pressing President Bashar al-Assad of Syria to yield power and accept a political transition.
One issue at the conference that was not overshadowed by the Snowden affair was the territorial disputes in the South China Sea and efforts to avert a military confrontation there.
In an address to the conference on Monday, Mr. Kerry endorsed the nascent efforts to draft a code of conduct to discourage military incidents in the South China Sea.
''"While we do not take a position on a competing territorial claim over land features, we have a strong interest in the manner in which the disputes of the South China Sea are addressed, and in the conduct of the parties,'' Mr. Kerry said.
''We very much hope to see progress soon on a substantive code of conduct in order to help ensure stability in this vital region,'' he added.
Territorial disputes in the South China Sea have become an increasing worry for the United States and its allies in the region. The area is rich with oil and gas and has been the source of tensions between the Philippines and China, among other nations. It also sits astride major shipping routes vital for world commerce.
In comments to the conference on Sunday, Albert del Rosario, the foreign secretary of the Philippines, accused China of militarizing the area.
''The overwhelming presence of Chinese ships, including military and paramilitary ships, and the issuance of threats pose serious challenges for the region as a whole,'' he said.
China has said it will consult on a code of conduct, which would aim to discourage military incidents, when officials from Southeast Asian countries gather at a meeting in Beijing with foreign ministers in September. That development that was welcomed at the conference here, but American officials also noted that it just the beginning of a long process that might eventually produce a set of set of explicit arrangements and procedures to reduce the risk of military conflict.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); ARRESTS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (94%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); HONG KONG (92%); ISRAEL (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



46 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Immigrants Rank Higher As Entrepreneurs

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
One of the key economic arguments underpinning the immigration overhaul is that immigrants create jobs -- not only because they spend money, but because they tend to be unusually entrepreneurial and innovative and so create job opportunities for the people around them. Think of Silicon Valley figures like Sergey Brin, Andrew Grove or Vinod Khosla -- or the designer Liz Claiborne. The bill that passed the Senate last week, under Subtitle H, even included special provisions for what is being called a ''start-up visa,'' to be granted to people who start companies that meet certain venture capital, hiring and revenue requirements.
So is it true that immigrants are unusually entrepreneurial? The data available suggest that yes, immigrants are overrepresented among America's business founders and innovators. 
According to a Small Business Administration-commissioned report in 2012 by Robert W. Fairlie, an economics professor at the University of California, Santa Cruz, the business ownership rate is higher for immigrants than the native-born, with 10.5 percent of the immigrant work force owning a business compared with 9.3 percent of the native-born work force.
Those numbers refer to ownership of existing businesses; immigrants are also more likely to start a business in any given month. In 2010, the business formation rate per month among immigrants was 0.62 percent, meaning that of every 100,000 non-business-owning immigrants, 620 started a business each month. The comparable rate for nonimmigrants was 0.28 percent (or 280 out of every of 100,000 non-business-owning adults). The gap in new business formation between immigrants and nonimmigrants has been growing recently, too.
Higher business formation rates among the foreign-born may be driven by necessity, especially when the economy is bad.
''Because of limited job opportunities in the Great Recession there appears to be an even greater response of starting businesses among immigrants than among nonimmigrants, which may have to do with lower-skilled workers having more difficulty in finding jobs,'' Mr. Fairlie writes.
Immigrant-owned businesses tend to be smaller, with an average of $435,000 in annual sales and receipts, compared with $609,000 for native-owned companies.
As for job creation, companies owned by immigrants are slightly more likely to hire employees than are non-immigrant-owned companies, though they tend to take on fewer employees on average in the cases when they do hire. Among immigrant-owned businesses with employees, there are an average of eight employees and an average payroll totaling $253,000. Native-owned firms that have employees hire an average of 11.9 staff members, with an average payroll of $429,000.
The share of companies that export their goods and services is also higher for immigrant-owned than for native-owned businesses (7.1 percent versus 4.4 percent). This might be because immigrants have existing business networks within their home countries, but it's hard to know from the data.
Immigrants' entrepreneurship rates are especially high in the engineering and technology sector. About a quarter of engineering and technology companies founded between 2006 and 2012 had at least one founder who was born abroad, according to a 2012 Kauffman Foundation study. In Silicon Valley, the share was 43.9 percent.
Indian-born immigrants are most highly represented among entrepreneurs in the engineering and technology sector; of all immigrant-founded companies in the Kauffman Foundation study, a third had Indian founders, up from 7 percent in 2005. The next most common nation of origin for these high-tech immigrant entrepreneurs was China.
Another Kauffman follow-up paper also found that these high-tech immigrant founders were highly educated (74 percent held graduate or postgraduate degrees), and a majority had originally come to the United States to study, not specifically to found a new company or to accept a job at an existing company.
A co-author of those papers, Vivek Wadhwa, has since written a book suggesting that we may be on the verge of a decline in high-tech immigrant entrepreneurship because of legal barriers to staying in the United States and improving economic opportunities back in immigrants' home countries.
Aside from business start-up rates, another measurement that suggests immigrants are unusually innovative is the disproportionately high number of patents awarded to the foreign-born.
A 2007 Kauffman Foundation study found that foreign nationals residing in the United States were named as inventors or co-inventors on about a quarter of international patent applications filed from the United States in 2006. This figure probably understates immigrant patent filings, too, since it excludes immigrants who have already become naturalized citizens.
A subsequent study on immigrant patent filings (conducted by the Partnership for a New American Economy, a nonprofit group of which Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is a co-founder) likewise found that immigrants were named in more than three out of four patents at America's Top 10 research universities.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (92%); IMMIGRATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (74%); LEGISLATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: VINOD KHOSLA (57%); SERGEY BRIN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



47 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: GlaxoSmithKline Is Investigated in China

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- The British pharmaceutical giant GlaxoSmithKline said on Monday that the authorities here were investigating whether senior managers working for the company in China were involved in ''economic crimes.'' 
A spokesman in London said that GlaxoSmithKline was unaware of the nature of the investigation but that the company's executives were cooperating.
Two weeks ago, the company fired the head of its research and development staff in Shanghai for misrepresenting data in a scientific paper he helped to write.
Also two weeks ago, The Wall Street Journal reported that a whistle-blower had sent information to GlaxoSmithKline's board claiming that for years the sales staff in China had engaged in the ''widespread bribery of doctors to prescribe drugs.''
The company said on Monday that it had thoroughly investigated the accusations made by the whistle-blower and concluded this year that there was no evidence of bribery or corruption.
Glaxo has said in regulatory filings that the Justice Department and the Securities and Exchange Commission contacted it as early as 2010 about possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in its overseas operations, including China. The company referred to the contacts as ''discussions,'' rather than an investigation, and said on Monday that they were continuing.
The troubles at the company, also known as GSK, are the latest example of a growing number of multinational corporations coping with bribery and corruption accusations in China, where offering cash bribes and kickbacks is widespread. Several American companies have been prosecuted in recent years in the United States under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, which forbids bribing foreign government officials.
The Chinese police made their announcement over the weekend. The public security bureau in the city of Changsha, in central China's Hunan province, posted a brief statement online announcing an investigation into senior managers at GSK China for economic crimes.
''It is still unclear what is the precise nature of their investigation,'' Simon Steel, a company spokesman, said on Monday. ''We will cooperate.''
Over the weekend, the Chinese police also detained GlaxoSmithKline managers in Shanghai, Beijing and Changsha, according to Monday's edition of The South China Morning Post, which is published in Hong Kong.
Glaxo is one of the world's biggest drug companies. It has both manufacturing and research and development facilities in China, with about 5,000 employees.
Although China accounts for a small share of the company's global revenue, it is one of the fastest-growing markets. In 2012, the company's revenue in China rose 17 percent, to nearly $1.2 billion, from 2011, according to the company's annual report.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); CORRUPTION (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BRIBERY (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); US FOREIGN CORRUPT PRACTICES ACT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (76%); ANNUAL REPORTS (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (70%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (66%)

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (96%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (96%); GSK (LSE) (96%); BIOC (EGX) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (74%) EAST CHINA (92%); CENTRAL CHINA (90%); HUNAN, CHINA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



48 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 320 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Gains Strength, But Hiring in Sector Stays Weak

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
American manufacturing expanded last month, rebounding from an unexpected contraction in May, but hiring in the sector was the weakest in nearly four years, a report on Monday showed. The data could give the Federal Reserve pause on plans to scale back its stimulus efforts. 
A separate report on Monday showed that construction spending neared a four-year high in May, a sign that it has regained some strength after having collapsed in the 2007-2009 recession. Even with consumer and housing data pointing to a steadily improving recovery, pockets of concern remain, particularly jobs.
The Institute for Supply Management said its index of national factory activity rose slightly more than expected in June, to 50.9 from 49, with a reading above 50 indicating expansion. The gauge for new orders rose to 51.9 from 48.8, while production jumped to 53.4 from 48.6, helping the overall index bounce back from a contraction in May -- the first in six months.
''It's nice to see manufacturing moving back into growth territory from contraction,'' said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
But a measure of employment fell to 48.7, the lowest reading since September 2009. It was 50.1 in May. That could feed concern about the strength of the recovery, particularly since the Fed has said it could begin to wind down its stimulus this year.
''The employment issue is key,'' Mr. Naroff said. ''If those jobs are not there, you are not going to get consumer demand.''
A separate index from Markit, also showed modest growth in manufacturing, but recorded sharp slides in hiring and new orders from abroad.
''Firms are responding to the increasingly worrying order-book trend by pulling back on recruitment,'' said Chris Williamson, Markit's chief economist.
Construction spending neared a four-year high in May, though difficulties in the commercial real estate and factory sector subdued the pace of recovery.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); TRENDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



49 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 585 words

HEADLINE: Joblessness Edges Higher To Hit a Euro Zone Record

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Unemployment in the euro zone continued its steady rise in May, according to data published Monday, underscoring the human effects of a financial downturn that has lasted a year and a half.
The jobless rate in the 17 countries that belong to the euro zone was 12.1 percent in May, adjusting for seasonal effects, according to a report from Eurostat, the European Union statistics agency. That figure compared with 12 percent in April, which was revised down from 12.2 percent reported earlier. Based on the revised figures, May unemployment was at a record high.
Eurostat estimated that 19.2 million people in the euro area were jobless in May, an increase of 67,000 from April. For all 27 countries in the European Union, the unemployment rate was unchanged at 10.9 percent. The European bloc expanded to 28 countries on Monday when Croatia officially joined. 
Joblessness in the euro zone has been rising almost without interruption since early 2008, when the financial crisis began, declining only briefly at the beginning of 2011. And analysts see little prospect for a sustained decline anytime soon.
While economists expect the euro zone economy to stabilize in the course of this year, growth will most likely remain too slow to generate large numbers of jobs.
''The measure that offers the greatest potential for job creation in the short to medium term is an easing of credit conditions,'' Marie Diron, an economist who advises the consulting firm Ernst & Young, said in a statement. ''This would allow companies to invest and as a result recruit in the euro zone.''
The European Central Bank will hold its monetary policy meeting on Thursday, but it is not expected to introduce more stimulus to the euro zone economy. A cut in the benchmark rate, to 0.25 percent from a record 0.5 percent, is possible, but many say it would be unlikely to do much to encourage lending in troubled countries like Spain and Italy.
Banks in those countries are trying to cope with rising numbers of bad loans and are reluctant to lend no matter how cheaply they can borrow from the European Central Bank. And the central bank remains reluctant to effectively print more money, as the Federal Reserve in the United States and Bank of England have done, because of opposition from Germany to more aggressive action.
Eurostat also reported on Monday that inflation in the euro zone rose to 1.6 percent from 1.4 percent because of a surge in energy prices. While inflation remains below the central bank's target of about 2 percent, the uptick is likely to provide a further argument against increasing the benchmark interest rate.
Compounding the bank's challenge, the numbers released showed that there remained a big difference in economic performance among euro zone countries. These differences make it difficult for the central bank to form a monetary policy that is appropriate for all members.
Unemployment rates in Spain and Greece were about 27 percent in May, with youth unemployment remaining well above 50 percent. In contrast, unemployment in Austria was 4.7 percent and in Germany was 5.3 percent. Both had youth jobless rates below 9 percent.
If there was any good news, economists said, it was that unemployment may not go up much more. ''An end to the euro zone labor market downturn is not yet imminent,'' Martin van Vliet, an economist at ING Bank, said in a note to investors. ''However, with the recession across the euro zone petering out, the peak in unemployment should not be too far away, either.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Job seekers in line to submit résumés at a job fair in Spain. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUSTAU NACARINO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EURO (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); MONETARY POLICY (86%); JOB CREATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (70%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (54%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); GERMANY (92%); SPAIN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CROATIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



50 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; GOTHAM; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Making $7.75 an Hour, and Figuring There's Little to Lose by Speaking Out

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL. 
E-mail: powellm@nytimes.com; Twitter: @powellnyt

 BODY:
Shenita Simon watches a twilight rain wash across Brownsville. Softly, from her apartment in a public housing tower, she begins to talk of her life's impossible mathematics.
This 25-year-old woman with striking black eyes and hair pulled back in a bun is a shift manager at KFC -- her title is good for 50 cents an hour above minimum wage. From this, she and her husband, Jude Toussaint, an unemployed antenna installer, buy clothes for their three children and food, and help her mother with the rent.
Her wages erode on all sides. Often, she said, she finds her check is hours short. And when she works overtime, she receives two checks, each at straight time, as if she worked for two different employers rather than a single KFC across from Bargain Land on Pitkin Avenue in Brooklyn. 
Last year boiling oil spilled over and scalded her hands; she received $58 a week in workers' compensation, she said. Nearly every day her manager called and demanded: When are you returning to work?
She looks you square in the eyes.
''I'm beyond not satisfied,'' she says. ''This isn't the life I want for my children. This isn't the life I want for myself.''
Forget the gilded dreams of 90th-floor penthouse-dwelling hedge fund masters for just a second. We'll mourn the ridiculously high price tag for brownstones in another column. The economic comebacks of New York, of New Jersey and of so many states ride piggyback on the growth of low-wage jobs, on the hiring of those who dip French fries in boiling oil and pull flesh off the bones of factory chickens.
Fast-food businesses have added 25,000 jobs in New York in the past decade. Last week I sat in a low-ceiling City Council hearing room and listened and squirmed as fast-food workers -- the Wendy's hamburger slinger, the Papa John's bike delivery man, the woman who mops floors in KFC -- recounted the prosaic facts of their lives for a fact-finding panel.
There was a Mexican man with gray hair and a bushy mustache who trained as an architect. His two daughters live in Mexico and depend on him, and he sleeps in a basement and makes $5 an hour delivering Papa John's pizza.
''I delivered during Hurricane Sandy,'' he said in Spanish. ''They told us to ride bent over, so that the pizzas didn't get wet.''
Naquasia Legrand, a 22-year-old from Canarsie, Brooklyn, works at two KFCs. She washes dishes at one for $7.75 and mops floors at the other for $8. She says she must work four or five hours each week off the clock.
She needed to buy a MetroCard last week so she skipped lunch. She shakes her head. ''I think I deserve to eat lunch.''
The apostles of our new economy advise us that the middle and working classes need to ''retool,'' to learn new skills, to become more productive. Yes, well, O.K. When, where and with what time and whose money?
There is good news to be heard here. Workers who earn minimum wage realize their employers have no real hold on their tongues.
''I'm making the minimum wage plus 50 cents,'' notes Ms. Simon. ''I definitely can find another job.''
A great ferment brews. The car washers of the Bronx and Brooklyn have voted to form unions, as have security guards at Kennedy Airport. Twice in the past nine months, fast-food workers -- with the aid of Fast Food Forward, a community organizing and labor coalition -- have rallied and demanded higher wages and an end to wage theft.
How this ends is uncertain. American labor law is a beaten cur. Strikes are risky, and fast-food corporations are well-heeled adversaries. The current campaigns hope to embarrass these corporations.
As often, though, this sector carries an immunity to shame.
Papa John's chief executive, John Schnatter, makes $2 million per year and lives on a faux medieval estate outside Louisville, Ky. He spoke recently of trying to subvert Obamacare's provisions by cutting the hours of all of his workers to less than 30 hours. YUM! Brands, which owns KFC and Taco Bell and whose chief executive makes $11.3 million per year, helped lead the battle against paid sick days.
Mention long odds to these workers and they lead you back to the mathematics. They bob along the poverty line in an impossibly expensive city. What's to lose?
Ms. Simon, still dressed in the black KFC shirt with ''The Original Original'' logo, shakes her head when asked if she's worried about annoying her employer. ''I have no lies to tell,'' she says. ''This is just my life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shenita Simon, who works at KFC, said, ''I'm beyond not satisfied.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC THAYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); OVERTIME (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (76%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (74%); HURRICANES (70%); OIL SPILLS (68%); FOOD INDUSTRY (64%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%); CITIES (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



51 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: New Sanctions Imposed on Iran to Halt Gold Trading

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
The first American sanctions on Iran since a moderate cleric won the presidential election there on June 14 went into effect on Monday, expanding the number of penalized industries and imposing rules that theoretically could halt all gold and currency trade by the country.
Proponents of the latest round of sanctions said they could deprive the Iranians of billions of dollars of income that had evaded earlier rounds -- particularly with the new prohibition on gold trade. Bullion dealers in other countries who flout the prohibition risk severe American penalties, including expulsion from the United States precious metals market. 
Iran has increasingly traded its oil and gas for gold with countries like Turkey because of earlier financial sanctions that have prevented the Iranians from using conventional bank payment methods. The Iranian authorities are then able to use the gold to buy dollars and euros needed to purchase other needed imports, or to support the faltering value of Iran's own currency, the rial.
''This shuts off a major workaround,'' said Mark Dubowitz, executive director of the Foundation for Defense of Democracies, a Washington group that advocates tougher sanctions on Iran. ''As of today, it's prohibited for anyone to sell or transfer gold to Iran, at all.''
Others agreed that the gold prohibition would at least create new problems for Iran, which has shown a resilient ability to defy efforts by the United States and the European Union to pressure it economically.
''The prohibition on gold trading will make it more difficult for Iran to circumvent the financial sanctions,'' said Dariush Zahedi, a former businessman in Iran who is now a lecturer at the University of California, Berkeley.
Mr. Zahedi said Iran was likely to become even more dependent on bartering and would suffer higher inflation and more unemployment. ''In short -- further rises in transaction costs, cost of living and economic contraction,'' he said.
The new sanctions, which also penalize Iran's automotive industry and any foreign bank that conducts ''significant transactions'' in the rial, are the result of a bill signed by President Obama in January and an executive order he decreed early last month, before the Iranian election.
Supporters of the sanctions contend that they close significant gaps in the effort to pressure Iran over its disputed nuclear program, which Western nations suspect is aimed at enabling Iran to build a nuclear weapon despite the country's repeated assertions that its intentions are peaceful and lawful.
The sanctions are likely to intensify further under pending legislation in Congress, regardless of how Iran's president-elect, Hassan Rouhani, who takes office next month, approaches Iran's nuclear dispute.
Mr. Rouhani has signaled that he will seek relief from the sanctions and that he prefers a more pragmatic tone in negotiations than his predecessor, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, which some American policy makers and sanctions supporters have interpreted as a vindication of the sanctions campaign.
But Mr. Rouhani is not likely to be able to determine nuclear policies; that power rests with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, the supreme leader, who in his public statements strongly opposes any compromise.
Others say the election of Mr. Rouhani had far more to do with Iranian voter dissatisfaction with the overall policies of Iran's conservative incumbents.
''The Iranian people had plenty of reasons to vote against the conservatives, and didn't need sanctions to convince them to do so,'' the National Iranian American Council, a group that opposes sanctions, said Monday in an opinion article published on the Web site of Al Jazeera. The authors, Trita Parsi, the group's president, and Reza Marashi, its director of research, said sanctions advocates suffered from what they called ''variable blindness leading to overreliance on sanctions as a catchall explanation of favorable developments in Iran.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); EURO (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (77%); COST OF LIVING (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INFLATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%)

PERSON: HASSAN ROUHANI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (68%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



52 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: Traders Book Day's Gains, Blunting a Rally Set Off by Encouraging Economic Data

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks climbed on Monday, the first day of the third quarter, supported by signs of strength in the manufacturing and construction sectors. Even so, the major stock indexes pulled back from their session highs late in the day as investors sold some shares to book profits. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed up 0.54 percent after jumping as much as 1.27 percent earlier in the day. But the gains followed the S.& P.'s rally of 12.6 percent in the first six months of 2013, which is the strongest first half of a year since 1998 for the benchmark.
''We've had a couple days of pretty good moves, and on Friday and today, you've had some intraday profit-taking,'' said Richard Meckler, president of the hedge fund LibertyView Capital Management, in Jersey City, N.J.
Wall Street showed signs of stabilization last week after a sell-off that began because of concerns that the Federal Reserve's bond-buying policy would end sooner than expected. June was the S.& P. 500's first negative month since October.
Among the S.& P. 500's 10 industrial sectors, the telecommunication and utilities sectors were the decliners of the day. The S.& P.'s telecommunication sector index slipped 0.1 percent, and its utilities sector index lost 1.3 percent.
The day's early rally was brought on by data from the Institute for Supply Management that showed that American manufacturing activity grew in June, rebounding from an unexpected contraction in May.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 65.36 points, or 0.44 percent, to close at 14,974.96. The S.& P. 500 advanced 8.68 points, or 0.54 percent, to finish at 1,614.96. The Nasdaq composite index gained 31.24 points, or 0.92 percent, to end at 3,434.49.
While fears about the Fed's early exit from its stimulus efforts have calmed for now, analysts said the transition to a no-stimulus environment could cause further volatility.
''I still believe the market is trying to figure out how to price in slightly higher interest rates, even if rate increases from the Federal Reserve are still at least a year away,'' said Randy Frederick, managing director of active trading and derivatives at the Schwab Center for Financial Research in Austin, Tex.
In government bonds, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 3/32 to 93 22/32, sending the yield down to 2.48 percent, from 2.49 percent late Friday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); INTEREST RATES (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



53 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1652 words

HEADLINE: Art World Fears Losing a Mayor, And His Money

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN and MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM

 BODY:
He has helped stage audacious outdoor art exhibitions and supported cultural groups through expansions and renovations -- while quietly contributing hundreds of millions of dollars from his own personal fortune.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been good to the arts in New York City, leaving a legacy that includes transformative projects like the BAM Cultural District and tourism-generating events like ''The Gates,'' which adorned Central Park in 2005 with its billowing saffron-colored panels.
There is, however, a problem: He's leaving.
With less than six months remaining in Mr. Bloomberg's tenure, a cloud of unease has descended over arts executives, fund-raisers and artists. Over the last 12 years, they have grown accustomed to a City Hall that was receptive to their needs, as well as to a billionaire mayor who could privately bolster their budgets. 
Now these organizations are facing two unknowns: Will a new mayor continue to support them? And, just as important, will Citizen Bloomberg?
''We're all very nervous,'' said Linda Shelton, the executive director of the Joyce Theater, which presents dance. ''With Bloomberg, we all knew he was an arts mayor, that he understood what arts do for a neighborhood.''
That concern has grown acute as a two-year grant program from the mayor's private foundation, Bloomberg Philanthropies -- which distributed $32 million to more than 250 arts groups in every borough -- recently came to an end.
The foundation has not announced whether it plans to continue making grants to a range of arts groups, leaving many organizations fearful that Mr. Bloomberg's priorities might shift to the national stage, given his support of issues like gun control and the environment.
Patricia E. Harris, who is simultaneously Mr. Bloomberg's first deputy mayor and the chief executive of his foundation, declined to address the future of the grants in a recent interview. Later, in a statement, she said the mayor has developed ''an appreciation'' of smaller groups as good for neighborhoods and business activity.
Mr. Bloomberg, a data-driven executive, has consistently made the case for the arts as an economic driver, generating $21 billion a year, according to the mayor's office. While the city's cultural affairs budget -- which supports institutions in city buildings, as well as programming at other arts organizations -- has remained relatively flat during his tenure, the capital budget for arts groups has markedly increased. Since 2002, the city has spent $2.8 billion on cultural expansions, renovations and new construction.
''The impulse has been to try and say yes to projects,'' said Kate D. Levin, the New York City cultural affairs commissioner.
Perhaps most crucially, Mr. Bloomberg has been a philanthropic angel. Since 2002, he has given more than $200 million of his personal fortune to arts (and social service groups) around the city -- first anonymously, through the Carnegie Corporation of New York (though everyone knew it was he) and for the last two years through Bloomberg Philanthropies, which was formed in 2006.
His company, Bloomberg LP, also supports the arts; it sponsors the Metropolitan Museum of Art's audio guide program, for example, and ''Raw/Cooked,'' at the Brooklyn Museum, which showcases the work of lesser-known Brooklyn artists.
''He's up there philanthropically with Warren Buffett and Bill Gates,'' said Emily K. Rafferty, the president of the Met. ''Everybody is concerned about what happens after he goes.''
The foundation grants have gone to relatively large institutions, like the five major museums that just received $15 million for mobile technology. But they have also been given to small local ones, including the Ghetto Film School in the Bronx, Harlem Stage, the Queens Symphony Orchestra and the Staten Island Children's Museum.
Many groups are now trying to prepare for the loss of Mr. Bloomberg's private support. St. Ann's Warehouse, a theater with a $3 million operating budget that presents experimental work in Brooklyn, learned in December that the grants might not be renewed -- it received one for $200,000 in 2011 and one for $150,000 the next year.
''We all had it in our budgets, thinking it would be a renewal, so it was a little bit scary to have to pull that out of the budget,'' said Susan Feldman, the theater's artistic director. ''The thing about organizations of our size is when you get a single donor who gives you $50,000 or more, that's a very big grant. It goes a long way.''
Dance New Amsterdam -- a dance space in Lower Manhattan that has an annual operating budget of about $3 million -- received $125,000 from Bloomberg Philanthropies in its first year and $75,000 the second.
''That $200,000 was critical,'' said Catherine A. Peila, the executive and artistic director. ''It helped us run the organization.''
With the expiration of the grants -- along with lost revenue during Hurricane Sandy -- Dance New Amsterdam has struggled to pay its operating expenses, which jumped to more than $3 million from about $400,000 after its space was renovated in 2006.
In May, the company filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. But Ms. Peila said she knows she cannot count on the Bloomberg foundation to come to the rescue.
''They've said we're not getting funding this year and they're going to announce how they're moving forward,'' she said. ''I have no idea what they're going to do.''
Some in the art world acknowledge that cultural groups must adjust their expectations.
''When arts organizations lose a grant, they have to learn to either reduce their budgets or have developed other sources of funding,'' said Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, whose DeVos Institute of Arts Management has helped train grantees in areas like strategic planning, fund-raising and financial management.
Arts groups are facing an added complication, however. The city has made contributions to projects for which it can be difficult to raise funds, like helping the Brooklyn Museum improve the climate-control system in its 19th-century building. ''It's not sexy,'' said Arnold L. Lehman, the museum's director. ''You can't go to a lot of donors and say, 'Help me build duct work and chillers and coolers.' ''
But these renovations and expansions, which arts groups welcomed, can be expensive to operate. And the city has not greatly increased operating budgets. Last month the city adopted a cultural budget of $156.1 million for the 2014 fiscal year, up from $155.6 million the previous year.
Although the city paid for almost the entirety of the Queens Museum's current renovation ($50 million of $70 million) -- and will pay for its energy costs, because it is a city-owned institution -- the museum's operating financing from the city has declined.
''We've been losing $40,000 or $50,000 per year'' in city money, said Tom Finkelpearl, the Queens Museum's director.
Even if the next mayor proves enthusiastic about the arts, not one of the candidates has the financial resources of Mr. Bloomberg. Nor have they yet made culture a cornerstone of their campaigns -- although Joseph J. Lhota, a Republican, recently defended his tough tactics as deputy mayor to Rudolph W. Giuliani when he joined the mayor in opposing the 1999 ''Sensation'' show at the Brooklyn Museum, which included an artwork involving a Madonna figure and elephant dung.
Beyond financing, arts groups are also worried about the future of large public art projects that can prompt community objections, while requiring coordination from various city agencies.
The mayor almost invited controversy by championing ''The Gates'' in Central Park, given that the project had been stalled since the 1980s, because critics saw the bright fabric posts as a gross intrusion into the city's most important green space. The project, by Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, drew an estimated four million people, and brought in $254 million, according to the Public Art Fund, a nonprofit organization that presents contemporary art in New York's public spaces.
In 2012, Mr. Bloomberg made sure that the Buildings Department -- along with the Parks and Transportation Departments -- helped facilitate Tatzu Nishi's ''Discovering Columbus,'' a work that enclosed the statue at Columbus Circle. The installation drew more than 100,000 visitors. (The calculation of its economic impact has not been completed.)
''When someone comes into office and they decide that we should actively put a humongous art project in Central Park that's been floundering for 20 years, that in itself is a message,'' Ms. Harris, the deputy mayor, said.
Mr. Bloomberg's private giving has also led other donors to step up; his imprimatur is a valuable fund-raising tool. He was an early contributor to Lincoln Center's $1.2 billion redevelopment project.
''Having his support -- his personal seal of approval on it -- made a lot of people into believers,'' said Katherine Farley, Lincoln Center's chairwoman. ''He contributed to the momentum. Having early supporters of the stature of a Mike Bloomberg made people feel it was a wise investment.''
And then there is his role as cultural cheerleader. He made an impact by just showing up -- to opening nights, ribbon cuttings, gala fund-raisers at events large and small. There is a reason he has been honored by arts groups across the city, including his own special award at the Tonys on June 9.
''If the mayor is there doing the opening, that's going to generate more interest,'' said Nicholas Baume, the director and chief curator of the Public Art Fund. ''I would love for that to continue.''
No matter what happens with the next mayor, theaters and museums want to believe that Mr. Bloomberg will remain committed to the arts in New York City. ''I'm hoping he continues to give to culture,'' said Ms. Feldman of St. Ann's Warehouse. ''I can't imagine he would just forsake it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Christo and his wife, Jeanne-Claude, with Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg at ''The Gates,'' an exhibition in Central Park. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Left, Mayor Bloomberg announcing Lincoln Center's 65th Street redevelopment project at Alice Tully Hall in 2004
at right, with Ron Prosor, left, Israel's ambassador to the United Nations, and Harold Holzer of the Metropolitan Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHARTS: Money for the Arts Under Bloomberg: Operating budget
Capital projects
Foundation gifts (Source: Form 990, Internal Revenue Service
Department of Cultural Affairs
Dance New Amsterdam
 Independent Budget Office) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHARITIES (89%); PHILANTHROPY (88%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); THEATER (73%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (71%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); GUN CONTROL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



54 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Mideast Chaos Grows as U.S. Focuses on Israel

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER and JODI RUDOREN; Mark Landler reported from Washington, and Jodi Rudoren from Jerusalem.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- In Damascus, the Syrian government's forces are digging in against rebels in a bloody civil war that is swiftly approaching the grim milestone of 100,000 dead. In Cairo, an angry tide of protesters again threatens an Egyptian president.
At the same time, in tranquil Tel Aviv, Secretary of State John Kerry wrapped up a busy round of shuttle diplomacy, laboring to revive a three-decade-old attempt at peace negotiations between the Israelis and Palestinians. He insisted on Sunday that he had made ''real progress.''
The new secretary of state's exertions -- reminiscent of predecessors like Henry A. Kissinger and James A. Baker III -- have been met with the usual mix of hope and skepticism. But with so much of the Middle East still convulsing from the effects of the Arab Spring, Mr. Kerry's efforts raise questions about the Obama administration's priorities at a time of renewed regional unrest.
The Israeli-Palestinian conflict, once a stark symbol and source of grievance in the Arab world, is now almost a sideshow in a Middle East consumed by sectarian strife, economic misery and, in Egypt, a democratically elected leader fighting for legitimacy with many of his people. 
''The moment for this kind of diplomacy has passed,'' said Robert Blecher, deputy director of the Middle East and North Africa Program of the International Crisis Group. ''He's working with actors who have acted in this movie before, and the script is built around the same elements. But the theater is new; the region is a completely different place today.''
Administration officials no longer argue, as they did early in President Obama's first term, that ending the Israeli occupation and creating a Palestinian state is the key to improving the standing of the United States in the Middle East. The Israeli-Palestinian conflict is now just one headache among a multitude.
And yet Mr. Kerry, backed by Mr. Obama, still believes that tackling the problem is worth the effort: five visits to the region in the last three months. The most recent trip involved nearly 20 hours of talks, stretching almost until dawn, with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel and Mahmoud Abbas, the president of the Palestinian Authority.
Former administration officials defend that conviction. Mr. Kerry's focus, they say, makes sense precisely because of the chaos elsewhere. With little leverage over Egypt and deep reluctance about intervening in Syria, the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is one place that the United States can still exert influence, and perhaps even produce a breakthrough.
''You don't have instability between the Israelis and Palestinians right now,'' said Dennis B. Ross, a former senior adviser to Mr. Obama on the Middle East. ''But if you don't act, there's a risk that the Palestinian Authority will collapse, leaving a vacuum. And if we know one thing about vacuums in the Middle East, they are never filled with good things.''
Resuscitating the peace process, he said, is also vital to Jordan, which is reeling from the wave of refugees from Syria and can ill afford a new wave of Palestinian unrest in the neighboring West Bank.
What is less clear is whether the Arab upheaval has made a peace accord between the Israelis and Palestinian any less elusive. Some analysts say the instability has made Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas eager to resolve their dispute, while others assert that both can use it as a pretext to avoid making the hard choices needed for a deal.
''I think both sides look at what's happening in the region right now and think, 'Maybe we're better off putting ourselves in a more stable situation with each other,' '' said a senior Western diplomat who spoke on the condition of anonymity because of his involvement in what Mr. Kerry has demanded be confidential discussions.
But several Israeli analysts said the reverse was true: the unrest has made Israel more concerned about security than about taking risks to advance the peace process. Sallai Meridor, a former Israeli ambassador to the United States, said most Israelis would rank Syria, Iran, Egypt and Jordan above the Palestinians in terms of ''importance and urgency.''
A day after Mr. Kerry concluded 13 hours of talks with Mr. Netanyahu, Israeli newspapers were dominated by images of the vast protests in Egypt. Five of the six major daily papers did not even carry front-page reports on Mr. Kerry's diplomacy.
''Were you to ask people in the leadership of both Israel and the Palestinians whether they thought resolving the conflict now, given the developments in the region, is feasible, most people would tell you it's quite unlikely,'' Mr. Meridor said.
As for the Palestinians, some analysts said Mr. Abbas felt as vulnerable as ever about protracted negotiations with Mr. Netanyahu, particularly without preconditions. A preoccupied Egypt would leave the Palestinian Authority without crucial political support.
''Abbas would say that to reach a deal, you need Arab support from Saudi Arabia and Egypt,'' said Ghaith al-Omari, the executive director of the American Task Force on Palestine. ''With all the chaos, you might not get that.''
Mr. Kerry has made efforts to enlist the Arab world in his campaign. He brought Arab foreign ministers to Washington in April and won their support for an update to the 2002 Arab Peace Initiative.
Before his latest round of shuttle diplomacy with Mr. Netanyahu and Mr. Abbas, Mr. Kerry huddled with his counterparts in Saudi Arabia and Jordan. Analysts say he has avoided the trap of pushing for direct talks without laying the necessary groundwork.
''There is a reason Kerry has gotten as far as he has,'' said Daniel C. Kurtzer, a former American ambassador to Israel and Egypt.
While resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict is not the magic bullet for the region that some once thought, it still resonates widely, whether among the crowds in Tahrir Square or the militants of Hezbollah, who cite Israel in rallying around President Bashar al-Assad of Syria.
A recent survey of 20,000 people in 14 countries by the Arab Center for Research and Policy Studies in Doha found that Israel and the United States were seen as the top security threats.
Mr. Kerry has made it clear that he will not give up his peacemaking quest. But analysts said that the gravity of the crisis in Egypt would force him and other senior officials to shift their attention to Cairo, where American policy, some say, has failed to keep up with events.
''It's good that Kerry is focusing on the peace process,'' said Brian Katulis, an expert on Egypt at the Center for American Progress, ''but the biggest thing they haven't done is pursue a strategic review on Egypt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State John Kerry at a news conference in Brunei on Monday. He spent the weekend in Israel and the West Bank as protests rattled the Egyptian government and war raged in Syria. (POOL PHOTO BY JACQUELYN MARTIN) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL WAR (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (69%); FILM (69%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRISIS GROUP (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (55%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (92%); CAIRO, EGYPT (92%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%) MIDDLE EAST (96%); ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); EGYPT (94%); SYRIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); BRUNEI DARUSSALAM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



55 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: In Tanzania, Obama Calls for a Partnership With Africa to Aid Its Economy

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH and MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania -- President Obama called on Monday for a new partnership with Africa, one that would help sustain its recent run of tremendous economic growth while broadening the rewards to as many people as possible.
''We are looking at a new model that's based not just on aid and assistance but trade and partnership,'' Mr. Obama said at a news conference with President Jakaya Kikwete of Tanzania. ''Ultimately the goal here is for Africa to build Africa for Africans. Our job is to be a partner in that process.''
Mr. Obama, who arrived in Tanzania on Monday to cheering throngs much larger and louder than those he saw on the first two stops of his weeklong trip to the continent, Senegal and South Africa, acknowledged how drastically the continent had changed since his visit to Ghana four years ago. Then pictured as a desperate charity case, Africa is now seen more and more as a booming young market for the future.
''This is my final leg of my visit to Africa,'' Mr. Obama said at an event with business leaders Monday night. ''At every stop, one of my main messages has been that, even as this continent faces great challenges, this is also a moment of great promise for Africa.'' 
While Europe slips in and out of recession and appears primed for prolonged stagnation, Africa is home to many of the fastest growing economies in the world.
Economic growth for sub-Saharan Africa was a vigorous 5.1 percent last year, according to the International Monetary Fund, which predicts growth of 5.4 percent this year and 5.7 percent next year, well above expectations for the United States economy.
Trade between the United States and Africa has more than doubled over the past decade. Speaking to some 150 business leaders from the United States and Africa in Dar es Salaam on Monday night, Mr. Obama announced that Penny Pritzker, his new commerce secretary, would lead what he called a ''major trade initiative'' to Africa in her first year.
Mr. Obama hoped that the trip would emphasize economic partnership between the United States and Africa, but concerns about the failing health of former President Nelson Mandela of South Africa have dominated the news media's attention.
As he searches for a legacy of his own in Africa, Mr. Obama sounded ready Monday to refocus on the vitally important issues affecting people here. Over the course of his visit, he has chosen to emphasize food security in a continent often plagued by famine and access to electricity, which two-thirds of Africans live without.
Mr. Obama has unveiled an ambitious program to double access to electricity in sub-Saharan Africa, investing $7 billion in financial support for an initiative called ''Power Africa.'' Tanzania is one of the initial six participating countries where the government hopes to add 10,000 megawatts of generation capacity and reach 20 million households that lack electricity right now.
For Mr. Obama, the push to improve trade, investment and power in Africa is unlikely to draw big headlines or provide the president with a flashy legacy on the continent. But White House officials argue that over the long term, success in their efforts could have a huge impact on improving the lives of Africans and increasing the fortunes of American companies.
''While they may not have the immediate symbolism and very intense call to action that something like the Berlin Wall had, or of course apartheid did,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, the deputy national security adviser, ''we need to recognize that there is still a significant amount of work to do in the years ahead.''
Throughout his stay, Mr. Obama's agenda for Africa has been compared to that of his predecessor, George W. Bush, who invested billions of dollars to try to eradicate AIDS on the continent. Mr. Obama praised the program but said his administration had expanded the idea to treat even more diseases.
The military band for the Tanzania People's Defense Force greeted Mr. Obama by playing the United States national anthem twice. Cannons repeatedly punctuated the songs with huge blasts in the air. A yellow banner with Mr. Obama's picture said, ''President Obama, Welcome to Tanzania,'' in Swahili.
A sea of ecstatic Tanzanians welcomed Mr. Obama, the first American president with family roots in Africa. They lined nearly every inch of the streets as his motorcade made the 20-minute journey to the Tanzanian state house. The crowds, a dozen rows deep in some places, roared with approval as Mr. Obama passed.
One man dressed in an American flag shirt pumped his fists into the air exuberantly as the president drove by.
Ten men crowded around a single handset at Yasir Ahmed Hardware, taking a break from building wooden doors and metal grates to watch Mr. Obama's arrival. ''All we need Obama to help us with is a consistent, reliable supply of electricity,'' said Alex Adrian, 32, a carpenter.
The men at the workshop, which employs 35 workers, said that the power goes out for several hours two to three times a week. The men said that they made roughly $12 to $18 a day, but that when the power went down they could not work, meaning they and their families had to skip meals. The workers said they did not have electricity at home and used kerosene lamps in the evening.
Asked whether the United States was doing enough for Tanzania, Mr. Kikwete offered high praise, but joked that he would not say that Americans were doing enough. ''The U.S. is doing a lot, but if I say the U.S. has done enough, the president won't listen to my new requests,'' he said, prompting laughter from the audience and Mr. Obama. ''But so far, so good.''
Mr. Obama said that for two-thirds of sub-Saharan Africans to lack power was ''unacceptable in 2013.''
''We can't have a seven-year time frame for building a power plant,'' Mr. Obama said. ''We have to move. Things have to go faster.''
Without a more aggressive push on Africa, the United States also risks falling even further behind China in the fast-growing region. China has expanded its role significantly while the United States has seemed distracted by its military ventures both here and elsewhere.
China's new president, Xi Jinping, visited Dar es Salaam in March on his first tour abroad as the country's leader. Trade between the United States and Tanzania last year totaled $360.2 million, compared with $2.47 billion between China and Tanzania.
Mr. Obama also announced a new push to prevent wildlife trafficking, in which sophisticated poaching syndicates kill elephants and rhinoceroses and sell their tusks and horns in contravention of international conventions. Mr. Obama committed $10 million to help combat the problem and will detail a member of the federal Fish and Wildlife Service to the continent.
''It's decimating the populations of some of Africa's iconic animals, including rhinoceros and elephants as well,'' said Grant Harris, the senior director for Africa on the National Security Council. ''One thing we have been doing so far is raising the global profile of how bad this issue is,'' Mr. Harris said, adding that the United States would continue ''a massive diplomatic campaign'' to make other countries more aware of the issue.
White House officials also said Monday that Mr. Obama would be joined by Mr. Bush, at a wreath-laying event Tuesday morning at the site of one of the 1998 coordinated bombings of United States Embassies in Tanzania and Kenya. Ten people were killed at the embassy in Dar es Salaam.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama moved to the music on Monday as President Jakaya Kikwete of Tanzania welcomed him in Dar es Salaam. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); FAMINE (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); FOOD SECURITY (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%) AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (92%); GHANA (79%); SENEGAL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



56 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1572 words

HEADLINE: Outrage in Europe Grows Over Spying Disclosures

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER; Reporting was contributed by Brian B. Knowlton from Washington; Michael D. Shear from Dar es Salaam, Tanzania; Melissa Eddy and Chris Cottrell from Berlin; Aurelien Breeden from Paris; and Rick Gladstone from New York.

 BODY:
PARIS -- Damage from the disclosures of United States spying on its European and Asian allies spread on Monday, threatening negotiations on a free trade agreement, hurting President Obama's standing in Europe and raising basic questions of trust among nations that have been on friendly terms for generations.
President François Hollande of France issued some of the harshest language yet from a European leader on the issue, telling reporters that ''we cannot accept this kind of behavior between partners and allies'' and suggesting that talks on the trade pact, scheduled to start next week, should be delayed at least until questions over the spying issue were resolved and confidence restored.
It was not so much the fact of the spying as its sheer scale that alarmed European leaders and others here. Elmar Brok, an outspoken German who is chairman of the European Parliament's foreign affairs committee, said that ''the spying has reached dimensions that I did not think were possible for a democratic country.'' He said the United States had ''lost all balance -- George Orwell is nothing by comparison.'' 
While some of the comments were political and from leaders of countries that also spy with great energy against their allies, there was a new tone of disappointment with President Obama and concern that the American intelligence system had become too large for careful political oversight.
''France is a cynical country,'' said François Heisbourg, a defense expert at the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris. ''We all spy, but the difference here is the scale -- up to 60 million connections in Germany in a day!''
That spies go ''spearfishing'' after particular targets is one thing, he said. ''But no one has understood that our societies were being spied on so massively -- this isn't spearfishing but trawling with a big, big net. That's the real shocker.''
The European Parliament, which will vote on any free trade agreement, will debate the latest spying revelations in Brussels on Wednesday, with the Parliament's president, Martin Schulz of Germany, saying that he was ''deeply worried and shocked.'' If the latest reports, which include American spying on the European Union itself, are true, he said, ''it would be an extremely serious matter that will have a severe impact on E.U.-U.S. relations.''
European lawmakers across the political spectrum warned of a loss of confidence in the Obama administration that would make a free trade deal difficult. Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the Green Party floor leader, spoke for many when he said that the European Union ''must immediately suspend negotiations with the U.S. over a free trade agreement.'' First, he said, ''we need a deal on data protection so that something like that never happens again.''
The reaction was particularly angry in Germany, with its history of Nazism and the East German Stasi, made more acute by the disclosure that a large part of the American interception efforts were aimed there.
Michael Grosse-Brömer, the parliamentary president for the ruling conservative bloc, warned that if the reports proved true, ''it would be sufficient to shatter mutual trust and to damage the close, trusting trans-Atlantic relationship.''
Mr. Obama was in Berlin on June 19, giving a speech in which he explained that the spying programs were about counterterrorism and served the interests of all allies. But the online edition of the German newsmagazine Der Spiegel and The Guardian, based on leaks from Edward J. Snowden, the former American intelligence contractor, reported on Saturday that the spying and data collection included the European Union offices in Brussels and Washington, which struck many here as unlikely places to find terrorists.
Terrorism is real and ''there are systems that have to be checked, especially to fight terrorism,'' Mr. Hollande said, ''but I don't think that it is in our embassies or in the European Union that this threat exists.''
France has been a critic of the proposed free trade deal, trying to ensure that its key interests, which include domestic production of films and videos and agriculture, are protected. France is also well known as having a sophisticated, well-funded intelligence system that also spies on allies and enemies to protect its national and commercial interests.
What also troubles people is the sense that the United States, ''having unlimited means, uses them because they exist, and this speaks poorly of checks and balances in the system,'' Mr. Heisbourg said. He also wondered ''if Obama thought he was telling the truth in the Berlin speech,'' since ''spying on the E.U. was particularly revealing.''
Camille Grand, the director of the Foundation for Strategic Research, said that the disclosures fed into ''a growing disappointment with Obama in Europe'' stemming from the American drone program and the president's failure to close the military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba. For allied intelligence services to spy on one another is not new, he said, especially in trade negotiations and commercial dealings. ''But it's complicated the view of Obama, to realize he's a rather standard U.S. president, using all the tools at his disposal.''
Mr. Obama has told Americans that an N.S.A. program, called Prism, that gathers information from major Internet companies, is not aimed at them. Mr. Grand said, ''Then we find out that policy doesn't apply to America's allies. It creates a lot of skepticism.''
Many intelligence experts dismissed as posturing the expressions of shock and disappointment among Europe's leaders. Richard J. Aldrich, a former intelligence officer who teaches international security at Britain's University of Warwick, said that he was ''often surprised by the disconnect between political leaders whom one presumes get intelligence reports and the level of indignation they express.''
''They are political creatures,'' Mr. Aldrich said, ''and they detect some political mileage to be gained.''
European allies themselves spy on the European Union and have been happy to collaborate with the United States on intelligence gathering and even rendition, Mr. Aldrich said, ''so long as everything remains secret.'' Some of the pressure on Mr. Obama to crack down on whistle-blowers comes from his European allies, Mr. Aldrich said.
While France, Germany and other allies all spy, there is a large imbalance in technical means, which adds to the discomfort. James Bamford, the author of a 1982 book about the National Security Agency, ''The Puzzle Palace,'' said that the latest technology gives the United States a huge qualitative advantage over its partners.
''The difference is, you're comparing eavesdropping with a nuclear weapon to eavesdropping with a cannon,'' he said. ''These countries don't have anywhere near the capacity that the N.S.A. does in terms of their capacity to do to us what we do to them.''
That can confer an immense edge, he said, adding, ''It's the equivalent of going to a poker game and wanting to know what everyone's hand is before you place your bet.''
Mr. Bamford, like other experts, said that Washington's interest in Germany was understandable, both because of its political and economic clout and the fact that the Sept. 11, 2001, terror plot was hatched in Harburg, near Hamburg.
William R. Timken Jr., who served as the United States ambassador to Germany from 2005 to 2008, said Monday that he thought the European reaction was ''a little overdone.'' He said the assumption among diplomats had long been that espionage among allies was a given.
Now retired, he said that when he moved into the ambassadorial residence in Berlin, ''I asked our guys if they'd swept it for bugs and they said, 'Ambassador, nothing can prevent anybody from listening.' They just assume everybody's going to be listening to everything.''
Jane Harman, a former congresswoman from California and member of the House Intelligence Committee, played down the impact of the revelations. ''I do think there have to be some private conversations between some in Europe and some in our intelligence community, so there's a better understanding of what's going on. But it has ever been thus, that governments spy on governments.''
Ms. Harman, now the president of the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, said that European threats to stall or scrap the proposed free trade agreement were self-defeating. ''It will hurt Europe not to have this trade pact,'' she said.
In Tanzania on Monday, the last stop in his weeklong trip to Africa, Mr. Obama said that he had directed his staff to examine the latest reports regarding spying on United States allies. ''We will take a look at this article, figure out what they may or may not be talking about, and then we'll communicate with our allies appropriately,'' Mr. Obama said.
He said of every intelligence service: ''Here's one thing that they're going to be doing: they're going to be trying to understand the world better and what's going on in world capitals around the world, from sources that aren't available through The New York Times or NBC News.''
''If that weren't the case, then there'd be no use for an intelligence service,'' he said, adding, ''I guarantee you that in European capitals, there are people who are interested in, if not what I had for breakfast, at least what my talking points might be should I end up meeting with their leaders. That's how intelligence services operate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: German officials, including Foreign Minister Guido Westerwelle, expressed anger Monday over reports of United States spying. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROLF VENNENBERND/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN PARLIAMENT (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (91%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (91%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



57 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1494 words

HEADLINE: A Dimmed Marquee

BYLINE: By ZACH SCHONBRUN; Richard Sandomir, Ken Belson and Mary Kenney contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At dusk on the first day of summer at Yankee Stadium, there was a gentle breeze blowing to left field as a rim of fading sunlight marched across the bleachers in right. It was, in every respect, a sweet Friday night for baseball, with the Yankees taking on a formidable division rival, the Tampa Bay Rays.
The only thing wrong with the picture was the number of empty seats that remained visible in the stands as the game progressed -- and the missing names from the Yankees' lineup.
The attendance for the game was announced as being slightly more than 41,000, or about 9,000 short of capacity. That was a solid number for a regular-season game but not as robust as it might have been in other seasons in the Bronx, where the Yankees usually reign as the most distinguished name in American sports. 
Through 41 home games this season, the Yankees have drawn nearly 106,000 fewer fans than at this point a year ago, a 6.1 percent drop that is almost twice as large as the overall decline in baseball. More than half a dozen other teams have had bigger attendance losses than the Yankees, but without exception they are teams that went from good to bad, at least for a while, or from bad to worse, or that play in cities without a notably intense fan base.
The Yankees do not fit in any of those categories, which makes their attendance falloff more intriguing. And while they also experienced a decrease in attendance the last two years, the one this season is more pronounced.
Even more sobering for the team: the television ratings for their games have plummeted. Through June 25, the ratings on their YES Network were down 40 percent to 2.52 from 4.17 at this point last season, and from 4.08, 4.50 and 4.72 in the three previous seasons, with each rating point this year representing 73,843 households.
Yet the sizable drop in the number of people watching the Yankees is not reflected by the team's performance. Battered by injuries to many of their stars, they have, for the most part, played admirably, holding on to first place until late May. Even now, while in a slump, they remain in contention with a lineup filled with castoffs and call-ups, although that could be a reason fewer people are paying attention.
In that June 21 game in the Bronx, Jayson Nix, a journeyman infielder, was playing shortstop instead of Derek Jeter, who has yet to return to action since fracturing his ankle in October. Playing third base was David Adams, an unheralded rookie filling in for Alex Rodriguez, who has yet to play this season, either, as he recovers from hip surgery in January.
No Jeter. No Rodriguez. And for that matter, no Curtis Granderson or Mark Teixeira, two other big names who were not in the lineup that night, or almost any other night this season, as they dealt with their own confounding health problems.
All of those missing boldface names, in the opinion of fans and experts alike, have translated into missing people at the ballpark and in the living room.
''The Yankees are known as a team of stars,'' said Randy Levine, the team president, who acknowledged that the absence of Jeter, Rodriguez and the others was clearly having an impact ''on the television side.''
''These Yankees are competitive, but they're not the Yankees that fans have been accustomed to for the past 20 years,'' said Wayne McDonnell, a professor of sports management at New York University. ''Are families going to spend $500 to see Lyle Overbay at first base?''
Vince Gennaro, a consultant for several major league teams, said the Yankees were suffering from the fact that their business model differs from that of other teams -- it is built on ''a tradition and a history of greatness -- all the things that the Yankees stand for,'' Gennaro said.
''It's not winning like the Colorado Rockies win,'' he added. ''It's winning with marquee names.''
Fans interviewed at recent Yankees games pointed to what they thought were other reasons for the empty seats, most notably the high price of tickets. According to Team Marketing Report, a sports marketing publishing company, the Yankees have the second-highest average ticket price in baseball, at $51.55. Only Fenway Park, the fabled and far smaller home of the Boston Red Sox, charges more.
At another game against the Rays in late June, Tom O'Neil, a 51-year-old Yankees and Reds fan from Cincinnati, volunteered that he had paid $190 for his ticket, which was behind third base on the field level, and that he did not think it was worth the price.
''But it's the Yankees,'' he said, adding that they were the one team he thought could get away with such prices.
Then again, O'Neil and other fans took note of the expensive seats that ring the home plate area and have not seemed to be filled since the new Yankee Stadium opened in 2009.
''Behind the plate, it's empty,'' O'Neil said, exaggerating, but only a little, about seats that cost $2,500 each when the Stadium opened in 2009 and have since been cut by 50 percent or more.
''If they charged $150, maybe they could fill it,'' he said.
Amid the complaints about prices -- ''they've priced a lot of people out,'' said Tony Anzalone, 44, of Brooklyn, who also showed up for a Rays game -- a number of fans seized on the absence of Jeter and Rodriguez for the diminished interest in the team, although it had not kept them from showing up.
''People who are coming now are the real Yankees fans, baseball fans,'' said John O'Connell, 56, of Yonkers.
What those fans are seeing is a team that almost defied logic while building a 30-19 record on the Sunday of Memorial Day weekend. Since then, however, the club has fallen victim to baseball's unforgiving law of averages: a lineup that has few of its regulars is unlikely to keep hitting game after game, and this one has not.
Entering Monday's games, the Yankees ranked 17th in the major leagues in home runs, with 81; 23rd in runs scored; and 25th in batting average, with a .239 mark. The lack of offense is the main reason the team went 12-20 over the last month to fall to 42-39. Instead of sitting in first place in the American League East, the Yankees are now in fourth, six and a half games behind the division-leading Red Sox.
The Yankees' skid is unlikely to lead to an increase in attendance or viewers; losing tends to generate disgust among fans, not sympathy. But what would surely stoke more interest would be the returns of Jeter and Rodriguez, who are working out at the Yankees' complex in Tampa, Fla. Rodriguez has been cleared to begin minor league rehabilitation games.
Whether the 39-year-old Jeter, the Yankees' captain, can still play shortstop on a regular basis on his repaired ankle remains to be seen. Whether the 37-year-old Rodriguez can play at all after his second hip surgery in four years is also unclear, as is his status as the season progresses and investigators for Major League Baseball continue to examine his ties to an anti-aging clinic in South Florida that is suspected of dispensing performance-enhancing drugs.
But if Jeter and Rodriguez return by the end of July and play effectively, and if the Yankees end up in a free-for-all for a playoff spot, the ratings and the home attendance should spike. And if the Yankees are able to add a veteran bat before the July 31 trading deadline, that might stir enthusiasm.
But those are a lot of ifs. For now, it is left to Levine, the forceful team president, to argue that whatever the ratings and attendance figures show, there is no cause for alarm. He has presided as the Yankees' president for the last 13 ½ years, a period in which the team's attendance soared to more than four million for four straight seasons, then leveled off when the newer, smaller, higher-priced stadium opened during the recession.
Last fall the Yankees failed to sell out several playoff games, although that was generally attributed to the fact that the team had to play five postseason games in a row at home, without a day off, leaving fans overwhelmed.
In addressing the current numbers, Levine noted the numerous instances of bad weather in April and May, the attendance drop-offs in baseball-strong cities like Boston and Philadelphia, and the Yankees' decision to spurn StubHub and establish their own online ticket resale operation with Ticketmaster. The move was intended to encourage fans to buy more tickets directly from the Yankees, and Levine said it was paying dividends but that the initial adjustment might have hurt attendance.
As for the larger point, the need for big names in the Bronx, he seemed as confident as Jeter normally is before a big at-bat.
''This is the Yankees,'' he said. ''We've been around a lot of years. There will be more stars.''
But not just yet. And when the Yankees return home Friday to begin a 10-day homestand that will carry them into the All-Star Game break, there may still be a noticeable number of empty seats at Yankee Stadium and too few viewers turning on the TV. In every respect, it has been an unusual season in the Bronx.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One of Alex Rodriguez's reserved seats, unused, at Yankee Stadium. Empty seats have been more common while he and other prominent Yankees have been out. (B11)
Some Yankee fans also pointed to the high price of tickets to explain why attendance has dropped. ''People who are coming now are the real Yankees fans, baseball fans,'' said one. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B12) CHARTS: 40,000 or Bust: If the Yankees' home attendance continues at its current pace (39,662 fans a game through 41 games) for the remainder of the 2013 season, it will be the first time in the last decade that the team has averaged less than 40,000 fans a game in the Bronx. (Source: baseball-reference.com)
 TV Ratings: The Yankees' current ratings on the YES Network (2.52) are not only a sharp drop from a year ago but also a significant decline from measurements taken at similar points dating to 2009. (Source: YES Network) (B12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (65%); BONE FRACTURES (65%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (94%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (77%); DEREK JETER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



58 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 560 words

HEADLINE: For Many in Africa, Lack of Electricity Is Barrier to Growth

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS KULISH

 BODY:
DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania -- Alex Adrian, a carpenter at Yasir Ahmed Hardware, proudly brought out his newest purchase on Monday afternoon, a small lamp with a square solar panel to charge it.
He still had the receipt for 45,000 Tanzanian shillings, or about $28, pay for roughly two full days of work here. Two days of work, that is, unless the power goes out, as it often does. In that case, work stops and no one gets paid. At home, families have to skip meals.
A few minutes earlier, nine workers had huddled around Mr. Adrian, watching President Obama's arrival at the airport in Tanzania on the tiny screen of his phone. The discussion turned to how the United States could help their country. The answer was unequivocal and unanimous: Electricity. 
''We know we have natural gas supplies in this country and we want to use them to provide affordable electricity for work,'' Mr. Adrian said. ''All we need Obama to help us with is a reliable supply of electricity.''
Mr. Obama has begun a new push to bring power to the two-thirds of sub-Saharan Africans who have no access to electricity, one of the cornerstones of his policy for the continent. That would mean light for schoolchildren to do their homework after sunset and refrigerators to keep food from spoiling. It would also mean more jobs and more development.
''Electricity is the heart of my business and of the development of Tanzania in general,'' said Dotto Said, 50, the supervisor at Yasir Ahmed, which sits along the four-lane Nelson Mandela Road in the neighborhood of Mwenge, a stretch of storefronts selling paint, water tanks and office supplies.
Phil Hay, the World Bank's spokesman for Africa, said that for the continent ''to keep growing at this extraordinary rate it depends on more electricity,'' adding, ''That's good for small traders, shopkeepers, businesses, for lighting roadways, for traffic lights.''
Yasir Ahmed's workshop provides jobs for 35 people who make wooden doors, window frames and metal gates for the local market. There are stacks of wood and piles of piping and rebar. The men worked outside, shaded by a corrugated metal roof, but they still sweat from the exertion. Sawdust drifts are ankle deep in some places.
''Tanzania has some of the most talented artisans and technicians,'' said Mr. Said, ''but we use very old, outdated equipment, mostly from Italy, from the 1960s and '70s.''
In the metalworking area, the men operating the grinding machines wear sunglasses instead of goggles to protect their eyes from sparks. ''We don't do enough because the power is not reliable,'' said Abdul Nganga, 35, a welder. ''We don't work to our full potential.''
Africa is rising, the experts say, Africa is booming, but it is relative. The challenge of moving beyond selling natural resources and agricultural products is apparent.
Businesses do not have connections to foreign markets and do not export as much as they would like. The situation in the country ''has improved from bad to better,'' Mr. Said said, ''but there is still room for improvement.''
The solar lamp allows Mr. Adrian's 7-year-old daughter to study at night without her father having to worry that if she knocks over the kerosene lamp she will start a fire, another small improvement. ''Life is getting better for those who are hard workers,'' Mr. Adrian said, ''except for those depending on electricity.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPHTHALMIC GOODS (86%); SOLAR ENERGY (77%); CHILDREN (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); POWER FAILURES (71%); NATURAL GAS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); RETAILERS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (63%); WOOD WINDOW & DOOR MFG (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%) AFRICA (94%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



59 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: No Substitute for Cash

BYLINE: By MICKEY MEECE

 BODY:
Until person-to-person mobile payments become widely adopted or someone develops the killer app for gratuities, business travelers who tip will still need to cough up cash on the road.
A few bucks here, $5 there, tips for shuttle drivers, skycaps, bellhops, concierge services and housekeeping -- it adds up. But for everything else -- restaurants, taxis and delivery services -- there are ways business travelers can keep better track of their tips.
Thomas King, 23, knows this all too well. As a consultant who travels frequently, Mr. King says he does not have a choice when it comes to tipping. Junior members who travel with senior colleagues are responsible for digging into their wallets. ''I do my best to write them down as I go along,'' said Mr. King, who does so on his smartphone. But when he is not traveling for work, ''I don't carry cash anymore,'' he said. ''I really have to go out of my way to have $20 in cash in my pocket.'' 
Given that the typical company spends 10 percent or more of its total annual budget on expenses related to business travel, according to the Aberdeen Group, a market research firm, those miscellaneous expenditures can nick corporate coffers. That is, if a business traveler actually remembers or cares to add out-of-pocket spending on travel and expense reports.
When he travels, Michael Hilton, a co-founder of Concur, the Bellevue, Wash., provider of travel and expense management software, says he tries to keep most but not all of his tips on credit cards, or he uses mobile apps like Uber, Square and Taxi Magic, which automatically uploads taxi receipts to Concur. But for workers like bellhops and housekeeping, which are typically not included in a final bill, he uses cash.
''I tip people who service the room, but I never once expense them,'' he said.
''Nobody likes cash,'' Mr. Hilton said. ''That's where technology comes in. People want electronic receipts and want to pay electronically.'' Concur uploads such online receipts into expense claims to save time and ensure accuracy, he said.
The automated technology that Concur provides companies with typically helps avoid the opposite problem of the employee who routinely overestimates cash tips.
Most companies allow for ''reasonable tips'' in their travel guidelines, Mr. Hilton said.
For Abraham Shafi, 26, chief executive of GetTalent, an upstart recruiting software provider based in San Francisco, the issue is straightforward. He follows a personal guideline instilled by his father who was in the service industry: Tip to scale to reinforce positive behavior.
''I've never expensed tipping, but now that you bring it up, I probably should,'' Mr. Shafi said. ''These days, you don't carry cash. It is difficult when you can pay for everything now with phone or credit card. It's easier to expense what's on the credit card.''
The same is true for his 10 employees, Mr. Shafi said. He said he did not think his employees included tips on the expense reports because it was too much trouble.
Business travelers like Mr. Shafi and Mr. Hilton would certainly welcome some kind of technological assistance to help them remember to tip or to make it easier to do so.
Jeff Kagan, a technology analyst, says mobile payments are in their infancy. At present, he says he does not know of a mobile app just for gratuities. ''That doesn't mean there isn't one,'' Mr. Kagan said in an e-mail interview. ''There are almost a million apps today. But I have not heard of one yet.
''Gratuity apps seem to make a lot of sense,'' he added. ''The next question is what kind of app? Is it a generic app that can be used for many different tips at different places? Or is it a hotel app, for that particular hotel? It would not get as much use, however.''
Google Wallet and PayPal are staking a claim in the mobile payments area, as are banks like JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America and Wells Fargo, in offering person-to-person payments.
Back in the paper economy, the reality for workers is that not everyone is inclined to tip, especially for housekeeping, as opposed to say, restaurant servers.
''It has been a long-established tradition in the United States -- again it's somewhat different in parts of Europe -- that servers are offered a gratuity and that the gratuity varies in a fairly narrow band even if service is not great,'' said Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean of the New York University Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management.
''But it is the opposite tradition that generally in North America, most travelers do not offer gratuities for housekeeping,'' Mr. Hanson said.
Optional gratuities are in addition to the estimated $1.95 billion in annual fees and surcharges that United States hotels charged guests in 2012, Mr. Hanson said. He expects that number to grow this year.
Fees and surcharges added to bills could confuse travelers, or make them disinclined to tip. A fee or surcharge is collected by the hotel and can be used by management however it wants, Mr. Hanson said. It is subject to sales tax because it is a form of revenue.
A gratuity is collected by management and is to be paid in full to employees, with no sales tax collected, he added.
Some hotels will let travelers add a housekeeping gratuity to the bill, said Doug Beeuwsaert, practice leader for the Lyndon Group, a professional services firm that works with Concur. ''The hotels pay it out as an incidental to the staff.'' Some don't, he added, so travelers just need to ask the front desk or concierge. The advantage is, of course, travelers can add it to the credit card as they check out.
Then there is the question of how much to tip. Sarah Schlichter, senior editor of IndependentTraveler.com, encourages business travelers to follow its general tip guidelines for all travelers. Those include $2 to $5 for valet, but more in bad weather; $2 to $5 for housekeeping per night; and $2 for the shuttle driver. (The Web site has more tip suggestions.)
John E. DiScala, a frequent traveler, recently posted on Twitter, ''I leave my daily housekeeper tip (usually $2+) under the pillow, so the minibar attendant or bellman doesn't snag it.''
When he was staying at a hotel in Tennessee in May, he was accidentally locked out of his room, so he asked the maid in the hallway about the guests and tipping. The maid told him, ''The funny thing is, the messier the room, the less chances of a tip,'' he recalled in an interview. ''I was like, really? It should be the opposite.''
Not only do travelers want to ensure good service, Mr. DiScala posted online, leaving a daily tip for housekeeping is also ''good karma.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRATUITIES & TIPS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (89%); MOBILE PAYMENTS (78%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (71%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (66%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

COMPANY: ABERDEEN GROUP INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



60 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: Suing, or Taxing, the Gun Makers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Let gun owners be sued. That's a fairer and simpler way to use civil liability to bring down gun deaths than the two proposals on your June 24 Op-Ed page (''Let Shooting Victims Sue,'' by Robert M. Morgenthau, and ''Make Gun Companies Pay Blood Money,'' by Lucinda M. Finley and John G. Culhane).
Gun owners won't have the money when sued? No problem: require that they have liability insurance. We don't have any issue with requiring car owners to have insurance. Some other countries require liability insurance for guns. We can, too. 
JAMES R. MAXEINER Bronxville, N.Y., June 24, 2013
The writer is an associate professor at the University of Baltimore School of Law.
To the Editor:
Devotion of so much space to those who argue that somebody must pay serves only the plaintiffs' bar. Thirty cities have wasted taxpayer money to sue the firearms industry, only to be reminded by courts that no liability attaches for the criminal misuse of lawfully sold, nondefective products.
The Justice Department reports that firearms-related homicides declined 39 percent, while nonfatal crimes involving firearms fell 70 percent, from 1993 to 2011. During this time, the number of firearms lawfully owned by American citizens has risen markedly.
We all want to see further reduction in the criminal misuse of firearms, but seeking to penalize an entire industry and, by extension, those who lawfully obtain and responsibly own its products is misdirected and wrong, if lucrative for lawyers. Focus on criminals, and crime decreases.
STEPHEN L. SANETTI President and Chief Executive National Shooting Sports Foundation Newtown, Conn., June 25, 2013
To the Editor:
Lucinda M. Finley and John G. Culhane's suggestion that the gun manufacturers be taxed for the social costs of gun violence is a good one.
One question, however: In view of the National Rifle Association's multimillion-dollar campaign to defeat any such legislation, which Republican members of Congress will vote for the proposed law?
MARTIN BERNSTEIN Seattle, June 24, 2013
To the Editor:
Contrary to the anti-gun articles in your June 24 issue, shooting victims should not be able to sue manufacturers, distributors and retailers; the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act should stay in effect; and manufacturers and importers should not be taxed for every gun sold to create a compensation fund.
Gun manufacturers, distributors and dealers operate under a comprehensive set of federal laws and various state laws and are not responsible for the actions of criminals, just as automobile manufacturers, distributors and dealers are not responsible for accidents or drunken driving.
It was necessary to put the Protection of Lawful Commerce in Arms Act into effect to prevent unwarranted and misdirected lawsuits designed to drive gun manufacturers out of business, the ultimate objective of the ''gun control'' advocates.
Gun manufacturers and importers should not be taxed on the basis of each gun sold, because law-abiding citizens who purchase guns are not responsible for the actions of criminals and should not be punished with higher prices.
I wish that people in this country would stop using the term ''gun violence,'' which mistakenly implies that guns jump up and do something by themselves, and start using the term ''criminal violence,'' which puts the blame for the misuse of guns on the criminals.
DAVID R. RUSSELL Berkeley, Calif., June 26, 2013
To the Editor:
The contention that gun manufacturers should be forced to pay a tax to ''internalize'' the costs of gun violence is risible. Should makers of utensils also pay a tax, because sometimes the knives they make are used to stab people? Should baseball bat manufacturers pay a tax because their bats occasionally hit human heads rather than baseballs?
But what about the times that guns are used to save lives? By their own reasoning, the authors ought to advocate government subsidies to gun makers for each innocent life saved because of the deterrent effect of a gun, or the shooting of a violent criminal. But they do not, because they are not trying to make a serious intellectual argument, but rather are abusing a sound economic principle to find a pretext for bankrupting gun manufacturers, who are just providing legal goods that consumers want to purchase.
MICHAEL WOOD Chicago, June 24, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SCOTT MENCHIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); HOMICIDE (78%); LITIGATION (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); FIREARMS WHOLESALERS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); AUTOMAKERS (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); WRITERS (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (73%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); RETAILERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (63%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (51%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL SHOOTING SPORTS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



61 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Experts See New Normal As a Hotter, Drier West Faces More Huge Fires

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and KENNETH CHANG; Fernanda Santos and John Dougherty contributed reporting from Prescott, Ariz., and Jonathan Weisman from Washington.

 BODY:
One of the deadliest wildfires in a generation vastly expanded Monday to cover more than 8,000 acres, sweeping up sharp slopes through dry scrub and gnarled piñon pines a day after fickle winds and flames killed 19 firefighters.
The gusty monsoon winds where the Colorado Plateau begins to drop off into the Sonoran Desert continued to bedevil about 400 firefighters who were defending 500 homes and 200 businesses in the old gold mining villages of Yarnell and Peeples Valley.
Scientists said those blazes and 15 others that remained uncontained from New Mexico to California and Idaho were part of the new normal -- an increasingly hot and dry West, resulting in more catastrophic fires. 
Since 1970, Arizona has warmed at a rate 0.72 degrees per decade, the fastest among the 50 states, based on an analysis of temperature data by Climate Central, an independent organization that researches and reports on climate. Even as the temperatures have leveled off in many places around the world in the past decade, the Southwest has continued to get hotter.
''The decade of 2001 to 2010 in Arizona was the hottest in both spring and the summer,'' said Gregg Garfin, a professor of climate, natural resources and policy at the University of Arizona and the executive editor of a study examining the impact of climate change on the Southwest.
Warmer winters mean less snowfall. More of the winter precipitation falls as rain, which quickly flows away in streams instead of seeping deep underground.
The soils then dry out earlier and more quickly in May and June. ''It's the most arid time of year,'' Dr. Garfin said. ''It's windy as well.''
The growing season also starts earlier, so there is more to burn.
''The fire season has lengthened substantially, by two months, over the last 30 years,'' said Craig D. Allen, a research ecologist at the United States Geological Survey station at Bandelier National Monument in New Mexico.
The fire potential is exacerbated by the past policy, beginning around 1900, of putting out all fires. Fires are a natural way of clearing out the underbrush. With that natural rhythm disrupted, the flammable material piled up, so when it did catch fire, it ignited a giant fire that burned hotter and wider.
This total-suppression policy began to ease as early as the 1950s, when scientists began to see fire's role in ecosystems. It was completely abandoned nearly two decades ago.
But in the 1970s, the Southwest entered a wet period, part of a climate cycle that repeats every 20 to 30 years. ''That wet period helped keep a lid on fires,'' Dr. Allen said. ''And it also allowed the forests to fluff up.''
Since 1996, the climate pattern, known as the Pacific decadal oscillation, has swung to the dry end of the spectrum, and the region is caught in a long-term drought.
Stephen J. Pyne, one of the nation's leading fire historians and a professor at Arizona State University, said, ''How we live on the land, what we decide we put on public and private lands, how we do things and don't do things on the land, changes its combustibility.''
In many landscapes, he added, ''you've enhanced the natural combustibility'' by building hundreds of thousands of homes in fire-prone areas, and for years suppressing natural fires, allowing a buildup of combustible materials like the ''slash'' debris left behind by logging.
''The natural conditions, particularly climate, the land-use changes that interact with it and how we add or subtract fire, those are the three parts of the fire triangle. Almost all of those are pointing in the same direction -- bigger, more damaging fires,'' he said.
While Yarnell is not a new community, and its population remained basically stable between 2000 and 2010, it is representative of the risk involved in the trend around the West for people to move into fire-prone areas in what social scientists call the ''wild land-urban interface.''
Those expanding communities, with rural views but more urban economies, have been the focus of concern among federal and state officials for a decade or more. While such regions are more plentiful in the East, it is in the areas west of the 100th longitude, reaching from West Texas and the Dakotas to the Pacific Ocean, where the natural aridity, increasingly exacerbated by climate change, makes fires a common threat.
In the West in the 1990s, more than 2.2 million housing units were added in these fire-prone areas, according to testimony by Roger B. Hammer, a demographer at Oregon State University and a leading authority on the issue. Speaking to a House subcommittee in 2008, he called this a ''wicked problem,'' and predicted an additional 12.3 million homes would be built in such areas in Western states -- more than double the current numbers.
Government and scientific data show that destructive sweep of wildfires covered an annual average of seven million acres in the 2000s, twice the totals of the 1990s. Michael Kodas, who is writing a book on modern firefighting, wrote in On Earth magazine last year that scientists believe that number will rise 50 percent or more by 2020.
Yet in fiscal 2013, more than $1.7 billion, or 38 percent of the Forest Service's budget, was to be devoted to firefighting in general, with $537.8 million -- a slight reduction from the previous year -- specifically allocated for wildland fires. The Interior Department's appropriation for wildland firefighting was $276.5 million, a slight increase over the previous year.
But the federal budget sequester eliminated $28 million from the Forest Service budget, although Interior's remained nearly level. This occurred even though both agencies overspent 2012 budgets of similar size, and though federal firefighters are often first responders, working alongside their state colleagues during blazes like the Yarnell Hill fire.
''The Forest Service is being treated as a firefighter of last resort,'' Dr. Pyne said. This, he added, ''is not what the agency was set up for, and it's not financed for it.''
Dr. Allen said that what was different in the recent fires -- hotter, more enveloping -- is that they are killing far more trees. ''We're seeing the size of postfire treeless patches merging into thousands of acres,'' he said, ''sometimes many thousands of acres.''
That could permanently transform much of the Arizona landscape as grasslands and shrubs fill in the empty space.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yarnell Hill fire, which quickly expanded on Monday to cover more than 8,000 acres. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID KADLUBOWSKI/THE ARIZONA REPUBLIC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) GRAPHICS: Arizona Blaze Traps Firefighters
Acres burned in wildfires in the Southwest
Portable fire shelters
High-risk zones (Sources: Arizona State Forestry Division
National Wildfire Coordinating Group
International Association of Firefighters
 Missoula Fire Sciences Lab) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (90%); FOREST FIRES (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); DESERTS (77%); WEATHER (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (75%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (73%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (70%); NATIONAL PARKS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



62 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Zero-Based Tax Reform

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: If they don&#8217;t make specific proposals for eliminating tax deductions, Senate leaders are posturing and wasting everyone&#8217;s time with their talk of tax reform, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
In the 1970s, there was a management fad called "zero-based budgeting" that Jimmy Carter used as governor of Georgia and tried to put in place as president. The theory was that every government program needed to justify itself annually, rather than being automatically renewed. 
The idea never caught on because the payoff turned out to be small and it required a great deal of paperwork and data collection that complicated the budget process, according to a recent review by the Government Finance Officers Association.
Now, the chairman and ranking member of the tax-writing Senate Finance Committee, Senators Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, and Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, have proposed zero-based tax reform. Their idea is to wipe out every tax expenditure - deductions, exclusions and credits that reduce tax liability - and start from scratch, requiring tax-expenditure supporters to justify each one as if it were being proposed for the first time. Presumably, tax rates would be reduced, but the proposal does not say how much.
Critically, the senators say they will maintain the existing progressivity of the tax code. This puts a severe constraint on their efforts, because tax expenditures are not evenly distributed across income classes, nor is the burden of taxation. What appears fair at first glance may be grossly unfair when thinking the issue through.
The senators provide the table below to show the impact on average federal income tax rates in 2017 of restoring $2 trillion of individual income tax expenditures and $200 billion of corporate tax expenditures over 10 years.
The point seems to be that every income class will be hit approximately the same if Congress retains tax expenditures rather than eliminating them. But that is not at all what it shows, because the baseline on which the tax changes would be applied is not indicated. Also, the brackets are oddly chosen because five of the seven brackets apply to a tiny number of households with incomes far above those of most Americans. To have a clearer idea of what might happen, the following table from the Tax Policy Center shows the distribution of federal taxes in 2017 under current law.
It's hard to compare the two tables because we don't know what impact tax expenditures have on each income bracket. But clearly, those at the bottom are not going to benefit much, if at all, from rate reductions because they pay little if any federal income taxes. As Republicans keep reminding us, 47 percent of tax filers pay no federal income taxes. It's disingenuous to imply that a family making $20,000 and one making more than $450,000 will be affected equally by the retention of tax expenditures, as the first table shows.
Kitty Richards of the Center for American Progress points to another way of looking at the zero-based proposal. She notes that the budget proposal put forward by Alan Simpson and Erskine Bowles in 2010 would also have wiped the slate clean of all tax expenditures and reduced tax rates to three statutory brackets of 9 percent, 15 percent and 24 percent.
In 2010, the Tax Policy Center estimated the distributional effect of this proposal for 2015, retaining only the child credit, earned income tax credit and employer contributions for health and retirement plans. The following table compares that proposal to the center's current estimate of federal tax rates in 2015 for each 20 percent of households and the ultra-wealthy.
As one can see, those with lower and middle incomes would see a tax increase, while the wealthy would get a tax cut. That is because those with high incomes control such a large percentage of total income that they benefit disproportionately from any cut in tax rates. It is hard to see how any reduction in tax rates financed by base-broadening won't have a similar effect given the current distribution of taxes.
Of course, another problem with the Baucus-Hatch approach is that certain tax expenditures are so popular it is inconceivable that they would ever be abolished. As I have previously noted, just the top 10 largest tax expenditures on the individual side account for more than 70 percent of the estimated $1.1 trillion in total tax expenditures. These include such "sacred cows" as the exclusion for health insurance, the deduction for interest on owner-occupied homes, the deduction for charitable contributions and others that Congress will never abolish.
Even special tax breaks that members of both parties denounce and that are clearly perverse have proven impossible to repeal.
The idea that we can wipe the slate clean and start from scratch is ridiculous pie-in-the-sky thinking and an abrogation of responsibility by the Senate's two principal leaders on tax issues. They ought to be willing to exercise some judgment and put forward a specific proposal of tax expenditures they think are worthy of abolition in order to clean up the tax code and lower rates. That's what Ronald Reagan did in 1985, which led to enactment of the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
Until a specific proposal on the table can be discussed, analyzed and amended, tax reform isn't going anywhere. Senators Baucus and Hatch are not helping; they are just wasting time.

        
Getting to Tax Reform
        
When $250,000 Isn't Actually $250,000
        
Immigration and Fiscal Policy
        
The Wealthy Keep the Tax Man Guessing
        
What Your Tax Dollars Are Buying

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX REFORM (94%); TAX LAW (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); WRITERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (69%) Baucus, Max; Federal Taxes (US); Hatch, Orrin G; Income Tax; Law and Legislation; Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Tax Policy Center; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Tax Policy Center

PERSON: MAX BAUCUS (88%); ORRIN HATCH (88%); RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%) Baucus, Max; Hatch, Orrin G

GEOGRAPHIC: GEORGIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



63 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1825 words

HEADLINE: Bringing Bitcoin to the Mainstream

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Two backers of the alternative crypto-currency bitcoin, Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the twins best known for their part in the history of Facebook, are trying to bring bitcoin to a broader investing public, pending approval of the United States government, Nathaniel Popper and Peter Lattman report in DealBook. The brothers filed a proposal with securities [...] 

 BODY:
Two backers of the alternative crypto-currency bitcoin, Cameron and Tyler Winklevoss, the twins best known for their part in the history of Facebook, are trying to bring bitcoin to a broader investing public, pending approval of the United States government, Nathaniel Popper and Peter Lattman report in DealBook.
The brothers filed a proposal with securities regulators on Monday that would allow any investor to trade bitcoins through an exchange-traded fund. "It is part of a broader effort to remove the stigma hovering over bitcoin and other online money endeavors, which have faced a barrage of regulatory questions and enforcement actions," DealBook writes. The proposal is an audacious one, and it is far from certain that securities regulators will approve it. For background, DealBook has a primer on bitcoin.
The filing set off lively commentary on social media. "The Winklevoss Bitcoin filing must be some sort of peak market absurdity indicator? Perhaps it means there is no value anymore?" Izabella Kaminska of FT Alphaville wrote on Twitter. "Well, at least the Winkelvii Bitcoin trust is consistent with their practice of being parasitic on new innovation," Epicurean Dealmaker, a pseudonymous Twitter user, wrote. "'Bitcoin ETF' is an anagram of 'Fiction Bet' which seems pretty apt," Lorcan Roche Kelly, chief Europe strategist at Trend Macrolytics, said in a post. 
LOAN PRACTICES OF CHINA'S BANKS RAISE CONCERN | Some of China's largest banks have been sending text messages to the phones of many of the country's wealthy, trying to raise cash to finance lending outside the scrutiny of bank regulators, David Barboza reports in The New York Times. "The complex way they go about making off-the-balance-sheet loans is at the heart of China's $6 trillion shadow banking industry, which the government is now trying to tame. Efforts to rein in the dodgy lending practices rattled stock markets worldwide in late June."
"China's regulators - and a fair number of economists, policy makers and investors - worry that legitimate banks are using lightly regulated wealth management products to repackage old loans and prop up risky companies and projects that might not otherwise be able to borrow money," Mr. Barboza writes. "Analysts warn that shadow banking is helping drive the rapid growth of credit in a weakening economy, which could lead to - in the worst situation - a series of bank failures." Dong Tao, an economist at Credit Suisse, said of shadow banking: "This is the biggest uncertainty I've seen in my 18 years following the China market."
SORKIN'S SUMMER READS | Some of the best business books are so dramatically written they could easily be beach reading. Others provide a grounding in economic and business history. And still others are practical books that help explain the thinking in the corner office. With summer here, Andrew Ross Sorkin has compiled a list (though not an exhaustive one) of some of his favorite business books. They include "Den of Thieves" by James B. Stewart, "Barbarians at the Gate: The Fall of RJR Nabisco" by Bryan Burrough and John Helyar, "The Informant" by Kurt Eichenwald, "Lords of Finance: The Bankers Who Broke the World" by Liaquat Ahamed, "The Art of War" by Sun Tzu and the classic, "The Intelligent Investor: The Definitive Book on Value Investing" by Benjamin Graham.
ON THE AGENDA | Data on factory orders in May is out at 10 a.m. Constellation Brands reports earnings before the market opens. Sheila C. Bair, former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, is on Bloomberg TV at 7:48 a.m.
A SLOW HALF FOR DEALS | "A long-awaited rebound in mergers is taking its time to arrive. But for all the hand-wringing by bankers and lawyers, the business of arranging deals has not quite disappeared yet," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. The first half of 2013 was the slowest first six months for mergers in four years, with about $996.8 billion worth of deals announced in the period, down 13 percent from the period a year earlier, according to data from Thomson Reuters. The number of deals announced worldwide in the first half was 16,808, the fewest for the period since 2003. "We're seeing buyers and sellers talk about deals, only to see them die in the marketplace," said Scott A. Barshay, the head of the corporate department at the law firm Cravath, Swaine & Moore.
In Europe, the deal environment remained gloomy. The number of announced European deals fell 43 percent, to $221 billion, in the first six months of the year, according to Thomson Reuters, DealBook's Mark Scott reports. That has left investment bankers scratching their heads over how to get deals done. "At the U.S. Open, the best players in the world couldn't break par. It's the same for our industry," Hernan Cristerna, the new global co-head of JPMorgan Chase's mergers and acquisitions division.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Rothschild Said to Be Advising on R.B.S. | The Financial Times reports: "The government has moved quickly to appoint advisers on the potential split of Royal Bank of Scotland into a good bank and bad bank, with Rothschild set to be named to run the assessment." FINANCIAL TIMES
Attorneys General Said to Examine Airline Merger | Attorneys general from 19 states, led by Texas, have joined the Justice Department in looking into the planned merger of American Airlines and US Airways, according to Reuters, which cited three unidentified people close to the discussions. REUTERS
Icahn Says He Has Secured Financing for Alternative to Dell's Buyout | The billionaire Carl C. Icahn pressed his attack on Dell's $24.4 billion proposed leveraged buyout on Monday, announcing that he had secured the $5.2 billion in debt financing necessary for his alternative plan. DealBook »
Penguin and Random House Complete Merger | The merged publishing company, Penguin Random House, said change would come slowly. NEW YORK TIMES
Intuit to Sell Financial Services Unit to Thoma Bravo | With the $1 billion sale, Intuit will retain Mint.com, the popular personal finances tracking service, and its Open Financial Exchange connectivity unit. DealBook »
Tribune to Buy 19 TV Stations | The Tribune Company's $2.7 billion deal comes as big media companies stockpile stations to reap the lucrative retransmission fees the stations receive, and take advantage of a revived advertising market. DEALBOOK
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Goldman Appoints a New President in Asia | Goldman Sachs said on Tuesday that Ken Hitchner would succeed David C. Ryan as president for the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan. DealBook »
Former Morgan Stanley Banker Joins Perella Weinberg | Brian Silver has joined the boutique investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners after recently leaving his job as a managing director at Morgan Stanley. DealBook »
Bank of America's Stock Loses Some of Its Luster | Bank of America's stock experienced a substantial rise last year, but the shares have lagged behind rivals so far in 2013, The Street writes. THE STREET
2 Managers at Vatican Bank Resign | The resignations on Monday followed the arrest of a high-ranking cleric. REUTERS
UBS Begins Singapore Gold-Storage Service | 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Steinway Sold to Private Equity Firm for $438 Million | Steinway Musical Instruments agreed to be acquired by the private equity firm Kohlberg & Company for $35 a share. DealBook »
Morgan Stanley Attracts $770 Million for Private Equity Fund | The money management division of Morgan Stanley raised $770 million for a fund to buy interests in private equity funds in the secondary market. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Vestar Capital Falls Short of Target for New Fund | 
REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
As Bond Market Tumbles, Pimco Seeks to Reassure Investors | Interest rates have surged in the last two months, and the company, the fifth-largest asset manager in the world, is showing signs of stress. DealBook »
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Zynga Hires Xbox Chief to Lead a Turnaround | The social games maker Zynga has replaced its founder and chief executive, Mark Pincus, with the head of Microsoft's Xbox video game business, Don Mattrick, the Bits blog reports. The change comes after a series of miscalculations and poor management decisions that have helped push Zynga's stock down nearly 70 percent since its initial public offering in 2011. The stock jumped when news of the transition was reported on Monday. NEW YORK TIMES BITS
Emcure Pharmaceuticals, Backed by Blackstone, Files for I.P.O. | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Revolution Ventures Seeks $150 Million for Fund | Revolution Ventures, the early stage venture capital arm of the investment firm run by Steve Case, is planning to raise its second fund, a filing shows, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
Former Quora Executive Heads to Greylock Partners | 
ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Big Companies Paid Only a Fraction of Corporate Tax Rate | The biggest, most-profitable American companies paid a 12.6 percent tax rate, far below the official 35 percent corporate tax rate, the Government Accountability Office found. NEW YORK TIMES
GlaxoSmithKline Under Scrutiny in China | GlaxoSmithKline said on Monday that the authorities were investigating whether senior managers working for the company in China were involved in "economic crimes." NEW YORK TIMES
Determining Corzine's Role in the Demise of MF Global | The Commodity Futures Trading Commission's case against Jon S. Corzine in the collapse of MF Global will come down to whether the agency can show that a chief executive should be held responsible for the conduct of an employee fairly well removed from his direct supervision, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook »
Urban Smog and Hazy Economic Prospects in China | China's leadership appears to have decided to focus on the quality rather than the quantity of economic growth, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook »
LVMH Is Fined Over Stake in Hermes | The French market regulator said it had fined LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton about $10.4 billion for having stealthily built a stake in Hermès International, The New York Times reports. LVMH said it would appeal the decision. NEW YORK TIMES
Former Officer of Dow Chemical Is Charged in Insider Trading Case | 
REUTERS
Europe Accuses 13 Banks of Blocking Entrants to Default Swaps Market | The European Commission says it has found evidence that the banks had tried to prevent exchanges from entering the credit derivatives business between 2006 and 2009. DEALBOOK
Citigroup to Pay Fannie Mae $968 Million Over Mortgage Claims | Citigroup said on Monday that it had agreed to pay Fannie Mae $968 million to resolve potential claims on 3.7 million mortgage loans from 2000 to 2012. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); APPROVALS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TRENDS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); CREDIT REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



64 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(After Deadline)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: TIMESTOPICS

LENGTH: 1212 words

HEADLINE: Singular? Plural? Pick One

BYLINE: PHILIP B. CORBETT


HIGHLIGHT: A small number of words or expressions can be either singular or plural, depending on the context or the construction. But they can&#8217;t be construed as both singular and plural at the same time, in the same sentence. 

 BODY:
Some words and expressions can be either singular or plural, depending on the context or the construction. But they can't be construed as both singular and plural at the same time, in the same sentence.
Consider these recent missteps:
 The couple was in New York at their Fifth Avenue penthouse on Thursday when news of the divorce, said to be Mr. Murdoch's decision, emerged. 
We used a singular verb with couple, but a plural pronoun. Which is it? Here, as in most cases, we should have treated "couple" as plural; one hint is that we would never have said "its Fifth Avenue penthouse." Occasionally, though, the singular is appropriate, when the couple is treated as a single entity - for instance, when one couple is compared as a unit with other couples. Here's what The Times's stylebook says:
 couple may be either singular or plural. Used in reference to two distinct but associated people, couple should be construed as a plural: The couple were married in 1952. The couple argued constantly; they [not it] even threw punches. When the idea is one entity rather than two people, couple may be treated as a singular: Each couple was asked to give $10; The couple was the richest on the block. In general, couple causes fewer problems when treated as a plural. 
 Even as the number of views were adding up, so were concerns within the company about the site's future. 
In this case, make it "the number of views was adding up" (or simply, "the views were adding up"). Here's the stylebook's guidance:
 Total of or number of (and a few similar expressions, like series of) may take either a plural or a singular verb. In general, when the expression follows a, it is plural: A total of 102 people were injured; A number of people were injured. When the expression follows the, it is usually singular: The total of all department budgets is $187 million; The number of passengers injured was later found to be 12.
 When Diana Greene Foster, a demographer and an associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the University of California, San Francisco, first began studying women who were turned away from abortion clinics, she was struck by how little data there were. 
Traditionalists among our readers bemoan our permissiveness in allowing "data" to be used as plural or singular, rather than insisting on the plural. (Actually, it's clearer to distinguish between its use as a "count" noun, requiring a plural verb, and as a "mass" noun, with a singular verb.)
But even we aren't as permissive as this example suggests; the word can't be singular and plural at the same time. In this example, if we insisted on "data" as a plural (count) noun, we would have to say "struck by how few data there were." That doesn't really convey the intended sense; better to construe it as a mass noun and make it singular throughout: "struck by how little data there was." Or, if you're worried about offending traditionalists, consider an artful dodge: "was struck by the paucity of data."
 In December, the Federal Communications Commission urged the F.A.A. to relax the rules of devices on airplanes during takeoff and landing, noting that the use of electronics "empower people to stay informed and connected with friends and family, and they enable both large and small businesses to be more productive and efficient, helping drive economic growth and boost U.S. competitiveness." 
Here's a different problem. The verb in the quote is plural, so the paraphrased portion has to provide a plural subject; the singular "use" doesn't work.
 
 In a Word 
This week's grab bag of grammar, style and other missteps, compiled with help from colleagues and readers.
 Emotional clips also made it difficult for depressed viewers to distinguish between fat-free and whole milk. As such, the study's author, Petra Platte, cautions against buying buttered popcorn: "Fifty percent of us might not even taste the fat," she says. 
"As such" does not simply mean "accordingly." From the stylebook:
 as such. In this construction, such is a pronoun, requiring a noun for its antecedent. Thus: She is an editor; as such, she assigns reporters. But not He works for The Times; as such, he covers medicine.
 The maker of the drug, Teva Pharmaceuticals, must first apply for permission to sell it over-the-counter to all ages, which the Food and Drug Administration has said it will approve promptly. 
The hyphens would be needed only if the phrase were modifying a noun, e.g. an over-the-counter medication.
 So far, the Afghan security forces have held, but like the Americans and British before them, the price has been high, according to Afghan and Western officials and accounts by locals. 
The "like" phrase is a dangler, since it does not modify the following noun ("the price").
 So is all this a case of wringing the hands (and the alarm bell) too soon? 
Make it "wringing the hands (and ringing the alarm bell)" or abandon the wordplay.
 One of Mr. de Blasio's ideas includes a municipal identification card that would serve as proof of residence and allow illegal immigrants to access services. 
Avoid this jargony use of "access" as a verb. Here, "get" or "receive" or "have access to" would all work.
 She said her son adamantly denied any abuse had taken place and that psychologists and the police had emphasized how important it was for him to come to terms with his abuse and how, according to her notes, "testifying is a very positive experience" that would bring victims "enormous relief." 
This long, cumbersome sentence is hard to read. Among other things, we should have "that" after "said," to be parallel with the later "that."
 A review concluded that Jesse Friedman, whose case was featured in a film, was properly ruled as a "sex offender." 
"As" is extraneous here.
 It stressed it would withdraw its support only if the economy were strong enough. 
Here, we didn't want the subjunctive; make it "only if the economy was strong enough." The original, direct quote was something like, "The Fed will withdraw its support only if the economy is strong enough." After the past tense "stressed," "is" changes to the simple past tense "was."
 Lindsay Benner, a professional juggler, honed her talents at Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco after graduating college. 
From the stylebook:
 graduate (v.). A person may graduate from a school or be graduated from it. But never: They graduated high school.
 Still, some doctors and obesity advocates said that having the nation's largest physician group make the declaration would focus more attention on obesity. 
This sort of shorthand is illogical, even silly; no one advocates obesity. Rephrase.
 The properties he bought up in the 1970s and '80s - the Shore Theater, the Thunderbolt roller coaster and the Playland Arcade - either remain dilapidated and largely vacant, or have been utterly vanquished. 
This was an odd choice of phrase to describe properties. Did we mean "razed" or "bulldozed"?
 There were ministers and moguls, rabbis and raconteurs, a tall blonde model with a plunging neckline, a religious soldier with sidecurls and an Intel executive inexplicably donning a black beret. 
Use "blond" as the adjective, the stylebook says.

        
Tangled Passages
        
Words We Love Too Much
        
Spoiler Alert: Phrase Is Overused
        
When Spell-Check Can't Help
        
Tangled Passages

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (60%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (50%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); ABORTION (50%) After Deadline; Grammar

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



65 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 506 words

HEADLINE: Sequester Hits the Long-Term Unemployed

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Federal unemployment insurance benefit programs have been pared back over the last year and a half, and are now undergoing major cuts as a result of the budget cuts known as the sequester. 

 BODY:
Sunday was the five-year anniversary of the Emergency Unemployment Compensation program, a federal program signed into law by President George W. Bush that initially added 13 weeks of unemployment benefits to the standard 26 weeks states already offered eligible jobless workers. The 13 additional weeks of benefits were intended to be temporary, but as the recession worsened, Congress decided to keep the program going and even lengthened the amount of time that workers could receive benefits. For a while workers could receive as many as 99 weeks in some states, the longest duration of jobless benefits on record. 
Those benefits have been pared back over the last year and a half, though, and are being cut more severely now as a result of the across-the-board spending cuts known as the sequester.
A new report from the National Employment Law Project calculates exactly how much: Of the more than $80 billion in automatic budget cuts that must occur between March 1 and Sept. 30, about $2.4 billion is being slashed from the federal emergency unemployment benefits program, says NELP, a labor-oriented research and advocacy group.
The organization estimates that upward of 3.8 million unemployed workers will ultimately be affected by the cuts. The average weekly benefit check of $289 is being cut by $43, or about 15 percent.
"It is the workers who have benefited least from the economic recovery who are bearing the largest share of the burden of the sequester," the organization said in a statement.
Almost every state has carried out the federally mandated cuts to its unemployment benefits at this point, but many waited until recently to do so. The longer the states took to put the cuts into effect, the sharper the reduction in each remaining weekly benefit check.
For example, the 20 states that cut their benefits starting on March 31 or April 6 trimmed 10.7 percent from each weekly benefit check, whereas Maryland and New Jersey started decreasing benefits on June 30, which required slashing all future weekly checks by 22.2 percent to achieve the total required savings.
The advocacy group has put together a table showing what's happening in each state, a portion of which is below.
Note that there is one outlier in North Carolina, which on Monday ended its participation in the federal Emergency Unemployment Compensation program altogether. That's for reasons unrelated to the sequester; basically North Carolina reduced its state-level jobless benefits (which workers go on before qualifying for the later tier of Emergency Unemployment Compensation benefits) by so much that it is no longer legally eligible for the federal extended benefits.
The National Employment Law Project estimated that North Carolina, which has the fifth-highest unemployment rate in the country, is cutting off federal benefits for an estimated 70,000 workers.

        
Immigration and Fiscal Policy
        
Lessons of the Great Recession: How the Safety Net Performed
        
The Sequester Starts to Show
        
Sales Tax Talk and Reality
        
Where the Jobs for the Young Are and Aren't

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (95%); BUDGETS (92%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Budget Control Act (2011); Federal Budget (US); National Employment Law Project; States (US); Unemployment Insurance

ORGANIZATION: National Employment Law Project

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



66 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: Requiring Defendants to Admit Guilt Will Be Costly for S.E.C.

BYLINE: DAVID ZARING


HIGHLIGHT: The Securities and Exchange Commission&#8217;s new policy on requiring some defendants to admit misconduct when settling cases will make will make pursuing the big fish draining for the agency, the author writes. 

 BODY:
 David Zaring is assistant professor of legal studies at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission recently qualified its longstanding policy that allowed companies to "neither admit nor deny" their guilt when settling cases.
The policy tinkering has come in the wake of criticism by lawyers, academics and, most memorably, Judge Jed S. Rakoff of the United States District Court in Manhattan. These critics have argued that the public interest is not served when the agency settles cases and imposes sanctions without explaining to the public the basis for the penalty. 
It now appears that the agency agrees - sort of. "There may be certain cases," it, "where heightened accountability or acceptance of responsibility through the defendant's admission of misconduct may be appropriate, even if it does not allow us to achieve a prompt resolution."
I am not sure that the critics are right to insist on these sorts of public admissions, and I am glad that the S.E.C. is hedging its bets by limiting the change to "certain cases," and not every case.
Private parties - be they corporate boards, drug manufacturers or divorcing spouses - never have to explain publicly the reasons they are settling civil cases. It is not clear that the government should be treated differently. Is the public interest in securities fraud cases greater than the public interest in other civil cases, which can affect jobs, the public health and the best interests of children?
I once represented the government as a defense lawyer, and the last thing I would want to do in a settlement negotiation would be to agree publicly that my employer had broken the law. It is much easier to let bygones be bygones, hold on to your private opinion of your client's rectitude, and, when necessary, pay the other side money to make the case go away.
What is clear is that in securities fraud cases, requiring defendants to admit they committed fraud to settle cases will make it surpassingly easy for private parties to sue over the same conduct. That prospect will actually make the S.E.C.'s job more difficult because defendants will know that, by settling with the S.E.C. and acknowledging wrongdoing, they are opening themselves up to more litigation.
How did we get here? Judge Rakoff made his stand against "neither admit nor deny settlements" in the S.E.C.'s case against Citigroup, a bank that performed particularly badly during the financial crisis. He was apparently worried that the S.E.C., while making grand claims of serious wrongdoing in its complaint, was imposing a slap on the wrist and receiving a halfhearted promise from the bank to behave properly in the future.
The judge decided that he could not determine whether the settlement was fair (something particularly important for courts that will be charged with continuing involvement in the case if the defendant sins again) without "cold, hard, solid facts, established either by admissions or by trials." He accordingly demanded that the S.E.C. and Citigroup provide him with those facts before he would settle the case.
The S.E.C. has appealed that order, and things look promising for the agency, but in the wake of his very public criticism, Judge Rakoff has won some adherents. As Judge Victor Marrero, who is overseeing the SAC Capital settlement, : "There is something counterintuitive and incongruous about [a company] settling for $600 million if it truly did nothing wrong." Other judges have followed suit.
And now, with the latest memorandum, the agency itself appears to be swayed.
It apparently wishes to require an admission only in particularly important cases, but even for these, I am uncomfortable with the policy. Law enforcement agencies always take some defendants to trial and verdict; everyone wants a few trophies. But once an agency has won some cases, it is cost-effective to get other defendants to settle or face the consequences. Indeed, extracting settlements is one of the points of building a fearsome reputation through a few wins in court.
The new policy, however, will make pursuing the big fish draining. For the large cases, it will mean that there are only two possible outcomes: a civil trial with a verdict, or an admission of guilt by the defendant, which will lead to serious follow-on litigation.
It is particularly troubling given that the new S.E.C. chairwoman, Mary Jo White, has said she would like to prioritize securities fraud cases. Those cases are hard enough to win to begin with. They frequently involve large public companies that may balk rather than make an admission and face litigation from plaintiffs' lawyers who did not discover and bring cases on their own before the S.E.C. action.
One can also assume that making the price of admissions high will make the price of fines correspondingly low.
Even for the most prominent cases, I would prefer to evaluate the agency on the size of the fines it wins and conditions it imposes. There will be plenty of corresponding news stories about the subject matter of the case, if it is important enough, and that gives us another yardstick with which to judge the agency as well. It may be a lot easier than requiring an "I did it" from the defendant in court.

        
Judge Takes Aim at Another S.E.C. Settlement
        
A Warning Shot on Management Buyouts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MISCONDUCT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GUILTY PLEAS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LITIGATION (89%); WRITERS (79%); LAWYERS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LEGAL EDUCATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); CRIMINAL FINES (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (51%) Fines (Penalties); Rakoff, Jed S; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Another View; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: C (NYSE) (54%); C (BMV) (54%); 8710 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%)

PERSON: Rakoff, Jed S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



67 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: G.M. and Honda to Collaborate on Fuel-Cell Development

BYLINE: LINDSAY BROOKE


HIGHLIGHT: Both companies have working fuel cell-powered models, but want to pool their resources to reach the next step in development. 

 BODY:
General Motors and Honda on Tuesday announced an agreement to jointly develop a hydrogen fuel cell to be shared by both automakers for vehicles they would produce around the end of the decade.
Speaking at the announcement in Manhattan, G.M.'s vice chairman, Stephen Girsky, and the president of American Honda, Tetsuo Iwamura, said that by collaborating on a common design and components, they would be able to lower costs and reduce development time. They said the new partnership would also work with energy suppliers and state and local governments to expand the network of hydrogen refueling stations, a critical element in fostering consumer acceptance of fuel-cell vehicles.
Fuel cells, which combine hydrogen gas stored in the vehicle with oxygen from the atmosphere to generate electricity, offer driving distances and refueling times equivalent to gasoline-powered cars. Though the electricity is produced on board, rather than drawn from a battery pack, the vehicles qualify as zero-emission because the only byproduct is water vapor. Many researchers regard fuel cells as more promising than batteries as an electricity source for vehicles. 
Fuel cells also are expected to play a key role in the federal fuel economy regulations set for 2017 to 2025. A section of those rules allows each fuel-cell vehicle to count as 1.75 conventional vehicles in 2020 and 1.5 vehicles in 2021. Such credits enable automakers to somewhat offset the fuel economy of less-efficient vehicles like S.U.V.'s and large trucks.
Additionally, hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles are deemed important for meeting California's zero-emission vehicle requirements scheduled for 2018. Under those rules, automakers would need to sell an estimated 1.4 million fuel-cell vehicles, E.V.'s and plug-in hybrids in California by 2025. And because nine other states are expected to follow California's so-called ZEV law, automakers would need to sell more than half of a million of those vehicles nationwide in 2025.
G.M. and Honda are considered industry leaders in fuel-cell technology, ranking first and second, respectively, in the total number of related patents filed from 2002 to 2012, according to the Clean Energy Patent Growth Index. Both companies have had active fuel-cell development programs for decades - G.M. since the 1960s.
Honda has produced about 100 examples of its fuel-cell FCX Clarity model, which is available on a lease-only basis in the United States, Europe and Japan. G.M. fielded a fleet of fuel cell Chevrolet Equinoxes that accumulated more than three million miles of consumer road testing.
"We have complementary technologies, and by pooling them we can move development along faster," Mr. Girsky said. He described the new relationships as "a complete sharing of all our respective intellectual properties on the subject." He even offered Honda technical assistance on its next fuel-cell car, a 2015 replacement for the Clarity that will be unveiled at the Tokyo Motor Show in September.
High development and materials costs - G.M. has spent more than $1 billion on its fuel-cell program, according to company engineers - are forcing automakers into technology partnerships where they can take advantage of their supply chains and manufacturing scale to help lower costs. Last January, the Ford Motor Company, Renault-Nissan and Daimler formed a joint development alliance aimed at making "affordable, mass-market" fuel-cell vehicles by 2017. BMW and Toyota have a similar arrangement. Hyundai and Volkswagen also are developing fuel-cell technology independently.
G.M. and Honda executives at the New York announcement indicated that the fuel-cell technology agreement potentially could expand into other joint development projects.
"With G.M. and Honda sharing our technical expertise, we believe we can achieve the world's strongest partnership in the area of fuel-cell technology," Mr. Iwamura said.

        
Recall Roundup: Honda, Chrysler, G.M., Mercedes and Yakima Issue Recalls
        
Air Bag Problems May Affect 320,000 Honda Minivans
        
Wheelies: The Electric Phantom Edition
        
Concept Cars From the Shanghai Auto Show
        
BMW and G.M. Discuss Collaboration on Advanced Technologies, Including Fuel Cells

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (98%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); PATENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%) automobiles; General Motors; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Hydrogen; Manhattan (NYC); Automobiles

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors; Honda Motor Co Ltd

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%) Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



68 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 335 words

HEADLINE: Cengage Learning Files for Bankruptcy

BYLINE: DEALBOOK


HIGHLIGHT: The private equity-backed education company has filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection as part of an effort to shrink its $5.8 billion debt load. 

 BODY:
Chalk it up to a learning experience: too much debt, even in a low interest rate environment, can be costly.
Cengage Learning, a private equity-backed education company, filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection on Tuesday as part of an effort to shrink its $5.8 billion debt load. The company, based in Stamford, Conn., also said that it had entered into a restructuring agreement with lenders who hold $2 billion of its first-lien debt. The restructuring will eliminate more than $4 billion in debt from the company's balance sheet. 
 "The decisive actions we are taking today will reduce our debt and improve our capital structure to support our long-term business strategy of transitioning from traditional print models to digital educational and research materials," Michael Hansen, Cengage Learning's chief executive, said in a statement.
Cengage was originally Thomson Learning, part of the Thomson media conglomerate of Canada, which sold it for about $7.75 billion in 2007 when the company was preparing to merge with Reuters. The buyers were Apax Partners and Omers Capital Partners - a private equity unit of the Ontario Municipal Employees Retirement Board pension fund.
As Cengage, the company acquired the college publishing division of Houghton Mifflin Harcourt Publishing for $750 million. In 2011, Cengage acquired National Geographic's digital and print school publishing unit for an undisclosed price.
Cengage said that it planned to make timely payment to vendors for goods and services during its Chapter 11 restructuring and that employees would continue to receive their usual pay and health and welfare benefits. In the filing in the United States bankruptcy court in Brooklyn, the company said it had more than $1 billion in assets.
Cengage's legal adviser is Kirkland & Ellis, its restructuring adviser is Alvarez & Marsal, and its financial adviser is Lazard.
Cengage Learning's Chapter 11 petition

        
HMV Stores to Be Sold to Private Equity Firm
        
Garda Security Gets $1.1 Billion Buyout Offer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (95%); PRIVATE EQUITY (93%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (91%); PUBLISHING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); EDUCATIONAL PUBLISHING (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (77%); PETITIONS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (74%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (71%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (66%); CIVIL SERVICES (66%); EXECUTIVES (53%) Apax Partners; Bankruptcies; Cengage Learning; Private Equity; Restructuring & Bankruptcy

COMPANY: CENGAGE LEARNING INC (92%); SOURCEMEDIA INC (68%); HOUGHTON MIFFLIN HARCOURT PUBLISHING CO (58%); KIRKLAND & ELLIS LLP (54%); APAX PARTNERS LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Apax Partners; Cengage Learning

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (58%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (54%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (54%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); ONTARIO, CANADA (54%) UNITED STATES (90%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



69 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Most U.S. Health Spending Is Exploding - but Not for Mental Health

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Mental health spending has remained roughly 1 percent of the economy since 1986, while total health spending has climbed from about 10 percent of gross domestic product in 1986 to nearly 17 percent in 2009. 

 BODY:
 As I write in a magazine column this week, mental illness costs the country a lot of money, primarily in indirect costs like lost worker productivity and increased use of the social safety net. That is one argument for why it might be cost-effective to increase national spending on the direct costs of treatment (like therapy, drugs, etc.). 
And there does seem to be some room for increasing spending on mental health care; so far, anyway, the United States has not had the same problem with out-of-control mental health treatment costs that has been seen with other kinds of medical spending.
Mental health spending, both public and private, was about $150 billion in 2009, more than double its level in inflation-adjusted terms in 1986, according to a recent article in Health Affairs. But the overall economy also about doubled during that time. As a result, direct mental health spending has remained roughly 1 percent of the economy since 1986, while total health spending climbed from about 10 percent of gross domestic product in 1986 to nearly 17 percent in 2009.

These numbers might seem particularly surprising given greater awareness of mental health care and higher take-up rates for it. Here is a chart, from the National Institute of Mental Health, showing the number of Americans who had any expenses associated with any of the five most costly medical conditions in 1996 versus 2006:
As you can see, the fastest growth has been for those with mental disorders, and in 2006, more Americans had expenses for care related to mental disorders than for any other medical condition except for asthma.
Now here is a chart from the same source showing the average expenditures per person associated with each of those five most costly medical conditions, in inflation-adjusted terms:
For most medical conditions, costs per person have gone up, but for mental disorders and heart conditions, they have fallen slightly.
So what is holding costs down? One explanation has to do with the patent system. A number of blockbuster psychiatric drugs like Prozac lost their patent protection in the early 2000s, which has helped slow growth in the costs of treatment per patient for many mental illnesses. The Health Affairs article also mentions that shortages of inpatient hospital beds in some areas may have helped slow spending growth for inpatient services as well.
In any case, while costs have been relatively controlled, a larger share is being borne by the public sector rather than the private sector, according to the Health Affairs article. In 1986, 43 percent of all mental health spending came from private sources (like patients or private insurance companies); as of 2009, that share had fallen to 40 percent. The cost shift primarily occurred from 2007 to 2009, the years of the recession, as people lost their private insurance and went onto federal programs like Medicaid.
The cost shift from private to public payers has been even greater for overall health spending, of which 59 percent was paid by private sources in 1986 versus 51 percent in 2009.

        
A World of Rising Health Care Costs
        
Health Spending: Watching for a Rebound
        
The Culprit Behind High U.S. Health Care Prices
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
Health Care as an Economic Stabilizer

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); MEDICAID (78%); PRODUCTIVITY (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (78%); RECESSION (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS PATENTS (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); INSURANCE (63%); PATENTS (61%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (50%) Health Affairs (Journal); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Medicine and Health; Mental Health and Disorders; National Institute of Mental Health; United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: Health Affairs (Journal); National Institute of Mental Health

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



70 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank Resists Pressure to Scale Back Its Global Ambition

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: The universal banking model is under attack by regulators, but Deutsche Bank seems determined to keep its two-track focus of branch network and investment bank. 

 BODY:
In many ways, Deutsche Bank operates in two different realms.
Deutsche Bank's blocklong headquarters in London's financial district oozes the wealth and sophistication one would expect of a global investment bank competing with the likes of Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase. The modern eight-story building even has its own full-time curator, who has lined the walls with works by contemporary artists like Damien Hirst and David Hockney.
A different side of Deutsche Bank is on view at Postbank, the sleepy retail unit whose branches are ubiquitous in German towns and cities and have long served the basic needs of citizens. Depositors wait in line amid racks of greeting cards and shelves stacked with manila envelopes and packing tape. The tellers double as postal clerks.
Its blend of provincialism and global ambition reflects Deutsche Bank's role as a so-called universal bank, a combination of branch network and investment house that gathers all those German deposits and puts them to work in global capital markets. 
But the universal banking model is under attack by regulators on several continents as the industry faces new regulatory pressures. Some new rules could potentially force Deutsche Bank to separate its investment banking activities, the largest in Europe, from the less glamorous business of taking consumer deposits and writing loans.
The question confronting Deutsche Bank managers is whether those pressures could be intense enough to undermine the bank's ability to compete with the big American banks.
"If all the measures before us were implemented as proposed," Anshu Jain, the co-chief executive of Deutsche Bank, told an audience in Frankfurt last month, "they would practically spell the end of over 100 years of universal banking in Europe."
Regulators are leaning on all big banks with measures like bonus caps, transaction taxes and higher capital requirements. But Deutsche Bank is under particular scrutiny because of a perception - considered grossly unfair by bank management - that it is too thinly cushioned against losses if there were another financial crisis.
The regulatory pressure comes in addition to a host of other challenges, including a long list of official investigations and lawsuits, most linked to investment banking, that are likely to be a burden on Deutsche Bank profits, and its reputation.
American regulators in particular seem to have set the bank up as a straw man that could collapse in the wake of another financial crisis. In what could be interpreted as a warning of regulation, Thomas M. Hoenig, vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told Reuters last month that Deutsche Bank was "horribly undercapitalized."
The unusually harsh statement came only weeks after Mr. Jain had assured shareholders that Deutsche Bank was one of the best-capitalized banks in the world. Mr. Jain was using a different measure of capital than Mr. Hoenig did, reflecting an intense debate in policy-making circles about the right way to measure bank risk.
European rivals like UBS in Switzerland or the Royal Bank of Scotland in Britain have already reduced the size of their investment banks under pressure from government regulators who want to make sure they never again have to ask taxpayers for a bailout. Others like UniCredit in Italy have been hobbled by the euro zone financial crisis. Deutsche Bank, however, seems determined to keep its two-track focus.
Deutsche Bank maintains that it can handle the additional capital requirements and remain a force in investment banking. Still, the outside critics have clearly been a source of frustration for Mr. Jain, who played a large role in building up the investment banking business after joining Deutsche Bank in 1995.
Measured by revenue, Deutsche Bank is the largest investment bank in Europe and sixth worldwide behind the American banks, according to Dealogic, a data provider. Deutsche Bank also consistently ranks near the top of banks worldwide in managing large sales of debt or shares, syndicated loans, or mergers and acquisitions.
Mr. Jain, 50, shares power with Jürgen Fitschen, 64, the other co-chief executive. Polished and confident, Mr. Jain is more often the face of Deutsche Bank to its global clients, while Mr. Fitschen focuses more on the German market.
Since taking over a little more than a year ago, they have increased the bank's capital, including raising 2 billion euros, or $2.6 billion, in a sale of new shares in April. They have vowed to instill a sense of ethics that they acknowledge was missing in the years before the financial crisis began in 2008.
Deutsche Bank is one of numerous banks suspected by American and British authorities of manipulating benchmarks used to set interest rates on trillions of dollars in loans. Deutsche Bank has said that no senior managers were involved in any wrongdoing. Still, that and other legal proceedings have prompted the bank to set aside 2.4 billion euros to cover potential settlements or judgments.
On Monday, Deutsche Bank was among 13 banks accused by European antitrust regulators of colluding to block competition in the market for credit derivatives. A bank spokesman declined to comment on the complaint by the European Commission.
Mr. Jain, a native of India who earned a master's degree in business at the University of Massachusetts, has worked hard to shift the focus from problems of the past to what he insists is a bright future for Deutsche Bank deploying German savings in the global economy. German deposits at Deutsche Bank total more than 300 billion euros, and are a crucial source of financing.
Mr. Jain, who declined a request for an interview, has won praise from some investors who have criticized Deutsche Bank over what they perceived as lax ethical standards and thin capital buffers.
"It's going in the right direction," said Hans-Christoph Hirt, director of Hermes Equity Ownership Services, which represents the interests of pension funds and other large investors. "They are doing a lot of very sensible things in the areas where we criticized them."
Some regulators also remain doubtful whether recent moves by Deutsche Bank to increase its capital are sufficient. With its enormous portfolio of derivatives, valued at well over $1 trillion, Deutsche Bank is clearly too big to fail. Any problems at the bank could reverberate around the global financial system.
The Federal Reserve is seeking a new rule requiring foreign banks to hold capital in the United States in proportion to their activities in the country, a regulation that would hit Deutsche Bank particularly hard because of its big presence on Wall Street. Deutsche Bank has resisted efforts to set aside its capital by country, preferring instead to keep it under one global umbrella.
By one commonly used measure, Deutsche Bank is indeed among the better-capitalized banks in the world. Its ratio of capital to assets, or total money at risk, is 9.6 percent, up from just 5.9 percent when Mr. Jain and Mr. Fitschen took over the bank in 2012 from Josef Ackermann.
Some banking experts, however, question the way Deutsche Bank and other institutions have calculated their risk, using methodology that allows them discretion in estimating the chances that a loan or other asset could sour.
Among regulators, academics and some analysts, there is growing sentiment that the use of so-called risk-weighted assets to calculate capital is fundamentally flawed. "This is like asking the poachers to be game wardens," said Adrian Blundell-Wignall, a well-known financial markets expert at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.
Using another yardstick, known as the leverage ratio, Deutsche Bank still looks risky compared with its peers. According to estimates by James Chappell, an analyst at Berenberg Bank, a private bank in Hamburg, Deutsche Bank borrows $50 for every dollar of its own money that it lends or otherwise deploys in the market. It is Deutsche Bank's leverage ratio that prompted Mr. Hoenig's comments last month.
Mr. Blundell-Wignall, citing O.E.C.D. research, said that banks' ratio of borrowed money to its own equity should not exceed 20 to 1. Banks with more than that "are potential accidents waiting to happen," he said. Most large American banks have less leverage, because of tougher regulations than in Europe.
Deutsche Bank said in its first-quarter financial report that its ratio of borrowed money to capital was 36 to 1 at the end of March using European accounting standards. Using accounting methods more comparable to that used by American banks, the ratio was just 21 to 1, the bank said.
Some analysts say that Deutsche Bank might be forced to scale back its ambitions. Mr. Chappell of Berenberg Bank estimated that the cost to Deutsche Bank of meeting new requirements on capital would consume four years' worth of profits.
"It can remain as a universal bank," Mr. Chappell said, "but once they are properly capitalized, returns will be significantly lower."

        
Warm Welcome at Deutsche Bank Meeting, Followed by Rancor
        
With Set-Aside, Deutsche Bank Cuts 2012 Profit

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANK BRANCHES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); DEREGULATION (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); EURO CRISIS (70%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (65%); DEBT CRISIS (65%); EXTERNAL DEBT (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); LITIGATION (61%) Deutsche Bank AG; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Fitschen, Jurgen; Jain, Anshu; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: Fitschen, Jurgen; Jain, Anshu

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



71 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: Military Auto Borrowers to Get Refund Checks

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Military members who financed car loans under the MILES program will get refund checks. 

 BODY:
Active members of the military who took out a car loan under the "MILES" program may have refund checks coming their way.
As part of its effort to make sure members of the military get fair financial treatment, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has ordered U.S. Bank and an affiliated company to refund $6.5 million to thousands of borrowers for failing to fully disclose some costs and fees under the automobile lending program. "Miles" stands for Military Installment Loans and Educational Services.
U.S. Bank and its affiliate, Dealers' Financial Services, will repay funds to about 50,000 borrowers who took out loans after Jan. 1, 2010. The average check will be around $100, and will vary depending on when the car was bought, its price, and whether add-on products were purchased. Richard Cordray, the bureau's director, said in a prepared statement that the bureau didn't assess civil penalties because the companies cooperated to resolve the issues. 
U.S. Bank, part of U.S. Bancorp, initially created the program a decade ago to make sub-prime car loans to younger, active-duty service members buying their first cars. It partnered with Dealers Financial Services, based in Lexington, Ky., to recruit participating car dealerships and to market and administer the program. In a statement, U.S. Bank said the loans were "offered at competitive rates compared to typical car loans for individuals without established credit histories. "
The bureau found that U.S. Bank violated the Truth in Lending Act as well as federal laws that prohibit deceptive marketing and lending practices, because it failed to properly disclose fees associated with the loans, like a $3 monthly processing fee that would total $180 over the life of a typical 60-month loan.
It also found that DFS misrepresented the cost of add-on features, such as service agreements and "gap" insurance to cover costs not covered by the borrower's regular car insurance policy.
The bank, the bureau said, required borrowers to pay under the military's "allotment" system, but didn't disclose the full cost of fees associated with doing so. The system allows soldiers to pay bills from their paycheck before it is deposited in their bank account, but typically requires a fee from a third-party processor.
One of the bureau's tasks is to oversee financial services marketed to military members. Mr. Cordray said the bureau began looking into potential problems with the MILES program after receiving complaints from family members. For instance, a man from Massachusetts told how his 21-year-old son, who had good credit and was being deployed to Iraq in the infantry, financed a used Dodge Ram for $20,000 through the MILES program, at an 18 percent interest rate. In addition to the loan, he was sold add-on products, including a warranty, costing thousands of dollars. The payments and upkeep cost $700 a month, or more than 70 percent of his take-home pay .
U.S. Bank intends to exit the MILES program, bank spokesman Tom Joyce said in an e-mailed statement. He noted that the bank has been recognized by the Department of Defense for its support of employees who serve in the National Guard and the military reserves, and has about 2,300 employees who are serving or who have served in the military.
"We take seriously the CFPB's concerns regarding these disclosures and certain marketing materials used in conjunction with the MILES program," he wrote. "At U.S. Bank, we have high expectations for ourselves and our company's product offerings, and we apologize for any confusion this program may have caused our customers."
A spokesman for Dealers' Financial Services did not return a call seeking comment.
Holly Petraeus, the bureau's assistant director for service member affairs, said in a statement that the finding highlights potential problems with the use of allotments as a way to pay off consumer debt. The allotment system, which predates the widespread use of electronic payments and online banking, was used to make paying bills easier for active-duty service members. Because the payments are deducted before the salary is deposited, however, it offers less flexibility in the event of a financial emergency, and can cost more in fees than most bill payment options because they typically involve third-party processors, she said.
The Defense Department has requested a review that may result in changes to the system, Secretary Chuck Hagel said in a statement.
Have you financed a car loan through the MILES program? Were its terms fairly disclosed?

        
Helping Older Americans Avoid Swindles
        
Ask Your Questions About Debt Collection
        
A New Spanish Language Consumer Finance Site
        
Telling the Difference Among 50 'Senior' Financial Credentials
        
Complaints About Money Transfers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); US TRUTH IN LENDING ACT (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (76%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (67%); INSURANCE POLICIES (67%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (64%) Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; consumer protection; US Bancorp; Consumer Protection

COMPANY: U S BANCORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; US Bancorp

TICKER: USB (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



72 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Immigration and Social Security

BYLINE: SHAILA DEWAN


HIGHLIGHT: Economists who have studied the issue tend to agree that more immigration is better for the Social Security system, at least for many years to come, but that the effect is small. 

 BODY:
The Social Security Administration says that the immigration bill passed by the Senate would help its coffers, adding $276 billion in revenue over the next 10 years while costing only $33 billion.
But 10 years is a short time when you consider that a vast majority of the new and newly legalized immigrants would be paying into the system during that period and drawing out their Social Security benefits later. That is the problem with attempts to determine the effect of immigration on Social Security in the long haul - every study is going to have some sort of end point, after which people who have paid in are going to start drawing out.
The Social Security Administration's chief actuary, Stephen C. Goss, says he believes that even 75 years out, there will be a net gain from immigrants, as he wrote in May. That is because their withdrawals will be offset by their children's contributions. 
Such estimates are based on a lot of assumptions, says Paul N. Van de Water, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, like how many children the newcomers are likely to have (higher birth rates among immigrants taper off with time), how many are low-skilled versus high-skilled (low-skilled workers tend to cost the system more, while high-skilled workers pay in more than they get out) and just how many new immigrants are admitted under the bill, all of which are open questions.
"It's amazing that the actuaries have said it would be positive in the long run," Mr. Van de Water said. "It's a lot of moving parts."
Economists who have studied the issue tend to agree that more immigration is better, but that the effect is small. "There are other better reasons to be for or against more immigration, besides its effect on Social Security," Mr. Van de Water said.
James P. Smith, an expert on labor markets at the RAND Corporation, added that it was misleading to consider the effect of immigration on Social Security alone. "Immigrants contribute on net to Social Security and health care," he said. "They're a drain on state and local budgets, largely because of education. So isolating one program is always a mistake." (Again, it is hard to estimate the long-term effects even of a drain on education budgets because having more educated workers helps the economy.)
There are also two separate pools to consider - unauthorized immigrants who are here already, about a third of whom pay Social Security taxes, according to government estimates, and the additional immigrants who will arrive through new legal channels. The Center for American Progress, a supporter of immigration reform, says if 70 percent of illegal immigrants are eligible for legal status under the bill, they will contribute $500 billion on net in 36 years - the period that the baby boomers will put a strain on the system.
It does not include the period in which those immigrants themselves begin to draw more heavily on the system. But Adriana Kugler, a former chief economist at the Labor Department and the lead author of that study, said it did not take into account projections that an influx of immigrants would result in higher wages for everyone, nor did it calculate the contributions of offspring. "You could look at a longer horizon, but then the benefit is even greater," she said.
Republicans have tried to clamp down on the amount that illegal immigrants who paid into the system will be able to withdraw. The Social Security Administration estimates that in 2010 illegal immigrants paid a net contribution of $12 billion, either by working under a fraudulent Social Security number or by using a legitimate Social Security number after overstaying a visa or otherwise losing permission to work. Currently, if such immigrants obtain legal status and can prove their earnings with pay stubs or W-2 forms, they can get credit for those contributions. But the Corker-Hoeven amendment to the Senate bill, which paved the way for passage, would bar them from getting credit for the previous decade's worth of payments even if they obtain legal status.
"To some extent, it's a taking by the federal government," said Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law Center. "The people who are going to be most severely impacted by this are going to be low-income immigrants."

        
Immigration and the Labor Market
        
Stronger U.S. Growth Ahead
        
Immigration and Fiscal Policy
        
Tightening the Border
        
How Immigration Reform Would Help the Economy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATION (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%) Foreign Workers; Immigration and Emigration; Law and Legislation; Social Security (US); Immigration Divide

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



73 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: You Say You Want a Revolution

BYLINE: GARY GUTTING


HIGHLIGHT: Is the Obama administration really the sort of oppressive government that needs to be overthrown? 

 BODY:
American politicians love to evoke our Revolution against British rule, and will certainly do so again this week, adding their own verbal fireworks as the nation celebrates its independence. Last January in his second inaugural address, President Obama made his own distinctive use of this hallowed reference when he analyzed our history as a continuing effort to carry out the ideals of the revolution and presented his administration as the most recent step in this gradual process.
The rhetoric of the Tea Party - the far right of the Republican Party - asserts a quite different view: that Obama's mode of governing represents a betrayal of our revolutionary ideals and calls for a "mission. . . to restore America's founding principles." Although few Tea Party members advocate armed opposition, many, like the original Tea Party, are committed to much more than the conventional elective and legislative efforts to thwart the goals of "liberal" government. 
Ever since Obama's initial election, they have been willing to employ almost any "acts of disruption" short of civil disobedience or insurrection. They routinely use filibuster to oppose legislation, obstruct the implementation of laws (especially the Affordable Care Act) already enacted, and put on indefinite hold appointments to key administrative and judicial positions. In this sense, they are indeed a revolutionary party.

On the other side of the political spectrum, recent developments - particularly Edward Snowden's leaks about government surveillance programs - have evoked similar revolutionary sentiments from the far left. Glenn Greenwald, the journalist who published Snowden's information, maintains that it shows a "government [that] continues on its orgies of whistleblower prosecutions, trying to criminalize journalism, and building a massive surveillance apparatus that destroys privacy." Snowden himself sees such actions as "an existential threat to democracy." Similarly, Noam Chomsky says the surveillance program is an example of how "governments combat their primary enemy - which is their own population."
We may well think that a proper response to a government so opposed to the fundamental rights of its citizens would be "disruptive action" to negate its power - which is precisely what Snowden undertook. We might further think that at this moment, at least, both the far right and the far left are revolutionary parties: both insist that disruption is necessary because the current government, like that of our 18th-century British rulers, is violating our fundamental rights as citizens and so has lost legitimacy. The principles of our original revolution, it would seem, once again require revolutionary action.
In this context it is instructive to return to Obama's own reading of the Revolution in his second inaugural address. Citing our Declaration's "all men are created equal," he defines the revolutionary ideal as equal rights for all. He goes on to offer an interpretation of our history as a gradual, non-revolutionary process of our learning what this principle means and finding ways of putting it into practice.
Obama acknowledges that the initial understanding of the ideal of equality - arising from the overthrow of an oppressive government - emphasized the rights of individuals in opposition to the government, and that this has rightly remained a major strand in our thinking: "We have never relinquished our skepticism of central authority, nor have we succumbed to the fiction that all society's ills can be cured through government alone."
But he also thinks our history shows that this can't be the whole story. From our efforts to "protect . . . people from life's worst hazards and misfortunes," we have learned that "preserving our individual freedoms ultimately requires collective action." Part of what we have learned, moreover, is that, in many cases, the power of the federal government is an essential instrument of collective action. It required government power to, for example, abolish slavery, build the country's railroads and highways, impose anti-trust restrictions and set up our Social Security system.
The Tea Party's case against Obama stalls in the face of his historical analysis. Specifically, the analysis poses a dilemma to which they have no good response. If, on the one hand, they reject Obama's claim of the indispensable role of government intervention, then they must also reject many of the defining achievements of our revolutionary heritage, which clearly required such action.
If, on the other hand, they accept Obama's reading of our revolutionary history, then they must agree that the government has a major role to play, and that the only remaining questions are about the nature and extent of that role in specific cases. Such acceptance, however, means giving up the central Tea Party tactic of objecting to every deployment of government power (for instance, any increase in taxes or regulations, any major reform projects) as in itself a betrayal of core American principles. Rather they must argue, for each particular case, that Obama's particular proposal involves an unjustified use of government power. This brings them into Obama's preferred, distinctly nonrevolutionary, political world: back-and-forth debates over the details of proposals to solve specific problems, with lots of room for fruitful compromise and a willingness to let unresolved disagreements be settled by majority vote.
A similar dilemma undermines the revolutionary tendencies of the far left. They must either deny the obvious fact that protecting Americans from terrorist attacks requires a substantial government surveillance system or they must agree that the only debate should be about how this surveillance system should work, not whether it should exist. Taking the second approach means accepting the fundamental legitimacy of Obama's anti-terrorism program and merely challenging specific aspects of this program. 
Similar arguments could be developed against far-left attacks on the legitimacy of Obama's use of military force, support for Israel and acceptance of market capitalism. Unless they want to renounce the use of military force, abandon Israel and eliminate the market economy, they must disagree within Obama's preferred political framework.
There is, in fact, no good case for a revolutionary challenge to our government. Both the far right and the far left should give up the romantic fantasy of revolution and take up, with the president, the challenge of actually governing this country.
 Gary Gutting is a professor of philosophy at the University of Notre Dame, and an editor of Notre Dame Philosophical Reviews. He is the author of, most recently, "Thinking the Impossible: French Philosophy since 1960," and writes regularly for The Stone. He was recently interviewed in 3am magazine.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (77%); FILIBUSTER (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LEGISLATION (72%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (64%); WRITERS (64%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (52%) The Stone

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



74 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Confusing the Public on the Affordable Care Act

BYLINE: UWE E. REINHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: Many opponents of the Affordable Care Act have used cautionary warnings of its impact, and some of them are jam-packed with misleading information, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Uwe E. Reinhardt is an economics professor at Princeton. He has some financial interests in the health care field. 
In my previous post I explained that general statements on the probable impact of the Affordable Care Act on the pocketbooks of Americans often do not make sense and can be quite misleading. 
My point can be illustrated with a recent news release from the Ohio Department of Insurance, "Health Insurance Costs to Increase Significantly Under Affordable Care Act." The department states that it "released the information today to help health insurance consumers continue to prepare for the expected price increases." It offers a one-sided perspective.
In its announcement, the department reports: 
The department's preliminary analysis of the proposed plans for the individual market reveal that insurers expect the cost to cover health care expenses for consumers will significantly increase. Based on a report released by the Society of Actuaries earlier this year, the department estimates this increase is an average of 88 percent. ... A total of 14 companies filed proposed rates for 214 different plans to the department. Projected costs from the companies for providing coverage for the required essential health benefits ranged from $282.51 to $577.40 for individual health insurance plans.
Presumably these numbers refer to claims cost and not premiums. 
The release is silent on whether the reported average of $420 of this wide range of claims costs are those for a given benefit package or an average over quite different benefit packages. If the former, how could the range of cost claims be so wide? If the latter, the reported average of these numbers would be meaningless. After all, how informative would it be to say that the average cost for a group of cars is $110,422, when that includes Chevrolets, Jeeps, BMWs and Ferraris? 
If properly informing consumers had been truly the department's intention, it should have added at least two additional pieces of information.
First, the news release should have reminded readers explicitly that income-related federal subsidies toward health insurance premiums will be available for individuals with household incomes up to 400 percent of the federal poverty level, along with "cost-sharing subsidies" toward out-of-pocket costs for families with incomes between 100 and 250 percent of the federal poverty level. For lower-income people, these subsidies will significantly offset premiums driven up by the reported 88 percent increase in costs. 
Second, the news release might have included some explanation of why the "cost to cover health care expenses for consumers" in Ohio is expected to rise as a result of the Affordable Care Act.
A clue to the answer can be gained from the study by the Society of Actuaries cited by the department. 
That study reports average claims costs per member per month for what it calls the "pre-A.C.A." and the "post-A.C.A." state of affairs. The pre-A.C.A. figure represents estimated claims cost per insured person per month in 2014 if the Affordable Care Act did not exist. The post-A.C.A. estimate reflects the counterfactual assumption that the entire act has been fully carried out in 2014, something that actually will occur only by the latter half of the decade.
Using a highly complex simulation model, the actuaries estimate that if the Affordable Care Act were fully carried out by 2014, the average claims cost per member per month in Ohio's nongroup risk pools would rise from an estimated pre-A.C.A. level of $223 (Figure S-2, Page 8) to the post-A.C.A. level of $406, an 82 percent increase, assuming no expansion of Medicaid in Ohio. The increase in systemwide total health spending in Ohio brought on by the Affordable Care Act, however, is estimated to be only 3.2 percent. 
Aside from the fact that the minimally accepted package of essential benefits under the Affordable Care Act will be more generous and costly than many of the much leaner policies traditionally sold in the nongroup market, that can leave people exposed to high financial risk, a major driver of the projected cost increase - one explicitly flagged by the actuaries - is a projected change in the risk profile of the insured in Ohio's nongroup market. 
The Society of Actuaries projects that the number of individuals insured in that market will increase from the pre-A.C.A. level of 415,000 to the post-A.C.A. level of one million. Many of these newly insured are projected to be relatively sicker individuals who had been excluded from Ohio's nongroup market, either because they could not afford the high premiums they were quoted, based as these were on the individual's health status; or because insurers had refused them coverage outright; or because they were in the state's high-risk pool. 
Just last week Julie Appleby of the Kaiser News Network reported on the tribulations that individuals had routinely experienced in the current, pre-A.C.A. nongroup market.
The proponents of the Affordable Care Act should not deny that with this simulated change in the risk profile of Ohio's nongroup insurance market - which may or may not come about - a switch from medically underwritten premiums to community-rated premiums, coupled with a richer benefit package, could significantly raise premiums for healthy individuals with higher incomes who are not entitled to substantial federal subsidies or any at all. The Ohio Insurance Department's news release certainly drives home that point. 
On the other hand, for projected new entrants into Ohio's nongroup market who are relatively less healthy, the community-rated premiums even before federal subsidies are most likely to be significantly lower than their medically underwritten pre-A.C.A. premiums - if they had been offered coverage at all. A forthright news release would have mentioned that positive outcome as well. 
From the "fact sheet" that the Department of Insurance appended to its news release, one gathers that Ohio's lieutenant governor, Mary Taylor, who also acts as director of the Department of Insurance, opposes the Affordable Care Act and supports its repeal. In the fact sheet, her department notes: 
Health insurance today is priced based on individual characteristics. Those with healthier lifestyles are rewarded with more affordable options. Under the A.C.A., all Ohioans will be lumped together for the purposes of pricing thereby eliminating the benefits of healthier choices. This method of rating is commonly known as "community rating. ... Because Ohio is being forced into this type of pricing, health insurance costs are increasing in 2014.
I can understand how community rating violates the theory of justice espoused by libertarians. In fact, I have proposed a way to accommodate their preferred social ethic. The department's rationale for opposing what it calls "one-size-fits-all pricing," however, astonishes me.
One can agree that an individual's choice of an unhealthy lifestyle can reduce her or his health status and increase that person's use of health care. Community rating gives such people a financial break we would rather not give them.
But many serious and often devastating illnesses afflicting individuals are a result of accidents, or genetic or environmental factors that have little to do with lifestyle choices. The many victims of such illnesses, in Ohio as elsewhere, might interpret the Ohio Insurance Department's rather crudely put theory of the causation of illness as an insult added to injury. 

        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment
        
Putting Off the Employer Mandate
        
'Premium Shock' and 'Premium Joy' Under the Affordable Care Act
        
The New Subsidy for Layoffs
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (91%); INSURANCE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); INSURANCE RATE REGULATION (89%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (85%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Ohio; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Society of Actuaries; Taylor, Mary; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Society of Actuaries

PERSON: Taylor, Mary

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Ohio

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



75 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: Suntory Unit's $4 Billion I.P.O. Rises in Tokyo Trading Debut

BYLINE: NEIL GOUGH


HIGHLIGHT: Shares in Suntory Beverage and Food gained modestly in their debut in Tokyo on Wednesday despite the recent shaky response to new offerings in markets around the world. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Shares in Suntory Beverage and Food rose on Wednesday in the closely watched trading debut of the biggest new share offering in Asia this year.
Shares in the food and nonalcoholic beverage unit of the Japanese conglomerate Suntory Holdings traded as high as 3,195 yen apiece before closing at 3,145 yen, up 1.5 percent from the initial public offering price. 
Suntory Beverage and Food raised 388 billion yen ($3.9 billion) on June 24 when it priced its I.P.O. at 3,100 yen a share, near the bottom of the deal's marketed range of 3,000 yen to 3,800 yen a share.
The modest rise in Suntory's shares on Wednesday compared with a gain of about 8 percent in Japan's benchmark Nikkei 225 share index in the week since the I.P.O. was priced. The Nikkei closed at 14,055.56 points on Wednesday, down 0.3 percent from Tuesday.
Around the world, investor appetite for new listings has waned in recent weeks as markets have been rattled by concerns over a cash crunch in China and the United States Federal Reserve's comments on plans to reduce its bond-buying.
Last week, two companies planning listings in Hong Kong decided to postpone or downsize their offerings, while in the United States, a pair of I.P.O.'s were priced below the marketed range because of weak demand.
That Suntory's deal was able to get out the door was partly a tribute to investor support for the company's plans to use the proceeds to pay for overseas acquisitions. It also comes as new signs emerge that Prime Minister Shinzo Abe's battle against deflation in Japan may be making progress by stoking long-dormant consumer demand.
Suntory's offering ranks as Japan's, and Asia's, biggest in 2013. It is also the second-largest global offering this year, behind BB Seguridade Participações's $5 billion I.P.O. in Brazil in April, according to the financial data and services provider Dealogic.

        
Suntory Plans Big I.P.O. for Its Food and Beverage Unit
        
Hong Kong's I.P.O. Market Cools

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (91%); NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BONDS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%); DEFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) Abe, Shinzo; Initial Public Offerings; Japan; Stocks and Bonds; Suntory Beverage and Food; Suntory Ltd; Food & Beverage; I.P.O./Offerings

ORGANIZATION: Suntory Ltd

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (89%) Abe, Shinzo

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%) Japan

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



76 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 734 words

HEADLINE: Putting Off the Employer Mandate

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: Although the White House is delaying a provision requiring employers to offer health coverage or pay a penalty, the key aspects of the Affordable Care Act should be little affected, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
Well, I didn't see that coming. The Obama administration announced Tuesday afternoon that it was going to delay an important part of the Affordable Care Act for one year. The rule requiring employers with at least 50 full-time workers to provide them with coverage or pay a penalty (also known as the employer mandate) will now be enforced starting in 2015, not 2014 as originally planned.
Here's a very brief look at why, what, and what it means. 
A Treasury official published a blog post explaining that officials decided to give businesses more time to comply with the reporting requirements. As The Times reported:
"We have heard concerns about the complexity of the requirements and the need for more time to implement them effectively," Mark J. Mazur, an assistant Treasury secretary, wrote on the department's Web site in disclosing the delay. "We recognize that the vast majority of businesses that will need to do this reporting already provide health insurance to their workers, and we want to make sure it is easy for others to do so."
Though the mandate will ultimately affect only a few employers, it is actually an important piece of the law's architecture. Without it, employers who currently provide coverage to their workers could drop the coverage and send their workers over to the state health care exchanges. And since some of those employees would be eligible for subsidies to help defray the cost, the employer would be shifting what is now a private cost over to the government.
The penalty for such actions was supposed to kick in next year; now they'll kick in the year after next. The government needs a bunch of information from businesses to determine if the penalty is warranted, and the White House is now saying that putting that reporting process in place is going to take longer than expected.
How will this affect coverage? Hard to see it having much impact at all. The important coverage aspects of the Affordable Care Act - the Medicaid expansion and the state health care exchanges - are still scheduled to be up and running by Oct. 1, the beginning of the fiscal year (of course, not every state has accepted the Medicaid part). And the requirement to have health insurance or pay a penalty - the individual mandate - will still take effect in 2014.
And a vast majority of employers with at least 50 full-time workers - about 95 percent - already offer coverage to the workers. With the exchanges going up, there's a chance some employers could try to pull off the cost shift noted above, but the mandate will be in place by 2015, so we're unlikely to see much of that.
At least one report suggests a budgetary cost from the delay, since the revenues from penalties would flow to the Treasury Department. But a colleague who tracks this stuff very closely tells me that while the Congressional Budget Office earlier this year scored this part of the bill as providing $5 billion to the Treasury next year, its most recent score dropped that to zero. The budget office appears to have wisely assumed it was already going to take a while to get this part of the system up.
So, no budget cost, little impact on coverage. Is this delay just not a big deal?
Um ... this is Washington, folks, and we're talking Obamacare. There will be much hay made of this delay in coming days. Conservatives will argue that this confirms that the law is unmanageable - which is a bit rich, since many of them have been trying to kill it, block it, and stop it in its tracks. (Speaker John Boehner's press secretary, Brendan Buck, on Twitter: "Obamacare. Such a train wreck.") Liberals may argue that the administration is caving to business, which just wants to put off the paperwork for a year.
I think it's an unfortunate delay of an important but relatively small piece of the bill, more growing pains of the type I'm sure Medicare had when it got going than anything existential. But that's not how it will play in the hurly-burly of the next few days of Washington politics.

        
Confusing the Public on the Affordable Care Act
        
'Premium Shock' and 'Premium Joy' Under the Affordable Care Act
        
The New Subsidy for Layoffs
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
Massachusetts Employees Will Keep Their Health Plans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICAID (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Obama, Barack; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Reform and Reorganization; Today's Economist

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2013



77 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Deadline on Trading Rules Abroad Splits an Agency

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: As the deadline nears, the plan to regulate trading by American banks in London and beyond has set off a rare breakdown of decorum at an agency long known for its cordial style and unanimous votes. 

 BODY:
Wall Street lobbyists, seeking to delay a July 12 deadline for rules that would rein in lucrative trading by banks overseas, pressed their case before a top Washington regulator last week.
The regulator, Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, had an unusual response. He summoned into his office a pregnant employee whose due date happened to be July 12.
 "Tell everyone about that day," Mr. Gensler instructed the employee, according to people who attended the meeting.
Pointing to her abdomen, she grinned and replied, "No delay." 
While the message to bankers was clear, some of Mr. Gensler's colleagues are still fighting his plan to extend the agency's reach beyond American borders, an issue that took shape in the 2008 financial crisis.
Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak, recently called the deadline "arbitrary." And with the agency's Republicans pushing for a delay, Mr. Wetjen holds the swing vote.
The dispute underscores a larger tension gripping the trading commission. As the deadline nears, the plan to regulate trading by American banks in London and beyond has set off a rare breakdown of decorum at an agency long known for its cordial style and unanimous votes.
Mr. Wetjen, for example, irked some colleagues last week when, without warning them, he delivered a speech to bankers in London that called for a new "interim" plan, according to an e-mail reviewed by The New York Times.
And when Mr. Gensler refused to budge on the July 12 deadline - he informed co-workers that he was departing for vacation a day later, and would have limited access to e-mail - one Republican commissioner, Jill Sommers, declared, "no one has ever accused Gary Gensler of being reasonable."
Even in a town known for its partisan outbursts and vitriolic finger-pointing, the tension at the agency was striking to political insiders. "It's like the seventh grade but without the lollipops," said a Congressional aide.
Some officials, who spoke on the condition that they not be named to freely discuss private talks, said they were still optimistic a deal would be struck next week. Until then, commissioners are planning to negotiate through the holiday weekend.
The time pressure reflects the importance of the cross-border plan. During the financial crisis, trades by the American International Group in London nearly brought the insurance giant and its Wall Street clients to their knees. JPMorgan Chase's $6 billion trading loss at a London unit last year further highlighted how risk-taking can come crashing back to American shores.
The blowups spurred a federal crackdown on the $700 trillion marketplace for financial contracts known as derivatives - contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond or an interest rate.
Even today, banks continue to book much of their derivatives trading overseas. Wall Street's biggest banks, regulators say, have more than 2,000 legal entities spread internationally.
"Without effective cross-border oversight, there is no derivatives reform," said Marcus Stanley, the policy director of Americans for Financial Reform, which supports the new rules. "It's like barring the front door and leaving the back door open." Dennis Kelleher, who runs Better Markets, called it a "defining" moment for the agency.
The agency's cross-border guidance stems from the Dodd-Frank Act. Under that 2010 law, the trading commission is supposed to extend new derivatives reforms - including tougher capital standards - if overseas trading has "a direct and significant connection with activities" of the United States.
The agency is now drafting guidelines for how the law applies to everyday trading, mindful that certain requirements could drive trading business away from United States banks. Under the plan, it is likely that firms like Goldman Sachs International and Citigroup's London branch will face the new scrutiny, though Mr. Gensler's agency will ultimately defer to European regulators if they adopt rules similar to Dodd-Frank.
The agency also softened an earlier draft of its guidelines. In recent weeks, officials briefed on the negotiations said, Mr. Gensler has offered to narrow the definition of what sort of firm is considered a "U.S. person" that would be covered under the regulation while expanding an exemption for smaller banks overseas. In another concession, the officials said, the agency plans to exempt certain entities of giant foreign banks so long as each entity does not trade in more than $8 billion in derivatives a year.
Mr. Gensler also circulated a plan to commissioners this week that would phase in the cross-border requirements over time.
Some lawmakers are urging the agency to tighten its rules. On Wednesday, a group of Democratic senators, including Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, are expected to raise concerns about loopholes.
Wall Street, in contrast, is bracing for July 12, when an order exempting overseas trading from federal scrutiny expires. If the agency fails to produce new guidelines but declines to extend the deadline, some banks fear widespread confusion will ensue.
"We find it very problematic that, this close to a critical date, there is complete uncertainty as to how the agency will proceed," said Annette L. Nazareth, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk.
History would suggest that a deal will materialize. Of 56 Dodd-Frank rules approved at the agency, two-thirds won support from all five commissioners.
But this deal is different. For one, it is likely to be the last policy to come from the current configuration of the trading commission. Ms. Sommers recently said her last day would be Monday. And Mr. Gensler, whose term expires in December, has turned down the White House's offer to return to the agency.
With time running low, Mr. Gensler has refused to extend the July 12 deadline. By his reckoning, the deadline comes three years after the passage of Dodd-Frank and a year after a draft version of the guidance.
"Congress and President Obama asked us to do this thing three years ago," said Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner at the agency who supports Mr. Gensler's effort. "Come on already."
Mr. Wetjen, the newest member of the agency, has been a harder sell. He has not ruled out meeting the July 12 deadline, but has publicly raised concerns about rushing and has yet to produce for Mr. Gensler a comprehensive list of suggestions. "I don't make any apologies for being deliberative and trying to sort out the best policy," he said.
A spokesman for Mr. Gensler declined to comment.
While Mr. Wetjen has voted with Mr. Gensler on every proposal before the agency, unlike other commissioners, he has also softened some rules. In the cross-border plan, according to officials briefed on the matter, he urged Mr. Gensler to allow for overseas branches of banks like Citigroup to be overseen by foreign regulators with similar rules.
A former aide to Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, Mr. Wetjen has challenged the notion that he is friendly to Wall Street. At a recent meeting with one such group, Mr. Wetjen began by jokingly saying, "I suppose you're here to tell me that I'm blowing a hole in financial reform."
His relationship with Mr. Gensler is more complicated. The two are friendly in person, and are said to respect one another.
But Mr. Gensler, some officials say, has expressed dismay with Mr. Wetjen when he proposes certain changes to a rule. And in a moment of frustration with Mr. Gensler's aggressive bargaining style, one person said, Mr. Wetjen blurted to a colleague that he should tell Mr. Gensler where to go, using an expletive. (Mr. Wetjen said that he did not "recall saying that.")
Their roles at the agency seem unlikely. Mr. Wetjen is a soft-spoken lawyer from Iowa; Mr. Gensler, a former Goldman Sachs banker whose job was to oversee derivatives trading.
In the meeting last week, Mr. Gensler emphasized his Wall Street ties. "Guys, I was one of you," he said, according to a person at the meeting. "But you're asking us to repeal Dodd-Frank. We're not going to do this."

        
Big Banks Get Break in Rules to Limit Risks
        
Regulators Overhaul Derivatives Market, but With a Caveat

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FUTURES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEREGULATION (85%); US DODD FRANK ACT (79%); BONDS (79%); LOBBYING (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); INSURANCE (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Gensler, Gary S; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Wetjen, Mark P; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (62%); 8685 (TSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (62%)

PERSON: Gensler, Gary S; Wetjen, Mark P

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



78 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 2, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1041 words

HEADLINE: To Basel's Defenses, the Fed Adds a To-Do List

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The Federal Reserve seemed to recognize that its approval of new banking rules related to Basel III was only part of the solution. 

 BODY:
After overlooking so many excesses before the financial crisis, bank regulators have spent the last five years trying to regain credibility.
The public got an important opportunity to assess their progress on Tuesday when the Federal Reserve approved a sweeping new set of rules intended to reduce the riskiness of banks' activities and make them more resilient to losses. While an important step, the rules, which stem from an international agreement known as Basel III, go only so far, something the Fed seemed to go out of its way to acknowledge.
It is easy to get lost in the weeds of Basel. Like most financial regulations these days, the new rules are dizzyingly complex. Adding to the confusion, they will exist alongside the Dodd-Frank overhaul of the financial system, passed by Congress in 2010. 
But boiled down, the Basel III measures approved on Tuesday focus on strengthening capital, the cushion that banks must maintain against losses. It's hard to overstate the importance of capital. The banks that had the least going into the 2008 crisis, like Citigroup, were the most problematic.
The cornerstone of the new rules is that banks must maintain high-quality capital, like stock or retained earnings, equal to 7 percent of their loans and assets. The biggest banks may be required to hold more than 9 percent. According to industry estimates, the six largest American banks have met or are close to meeting the 9 percent level. After the crisis, the banks were required to increase capital substantially.
The Basel approach to capital has drawn criticism, however.
For one thing, it uses something called risk weighting, which means less capital can be held against loans or bonds that are perceived to be less risky even though they may end up producing higher-than-expected losses. Basel may also give banks too much leeway when calculating how much capital they have to hold, because the banks get to apply the risk weightings. Finally, for some, Basel's capital ratios are simply too low to protect a bank from a real shock.
"They are certainly going in the right direction, but there's still more to be done," said Sheila C. Bair, a former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, another bank regulator.
The approval of the Basel III rules, which were subject to intense lobbying from the banking industry, comes at a crucial moment in the debate over bank size. Some lawmakers and consumer advocates say they think neither the new Basel rules nor changes in the 2010 Dodd-Frank overhaul do enough to protect taxpayers in a crisis. They argue that even with the new measures, the authorities may still bail out failing banks if they feel it is necessary to protect the wider financial system. This is called the too-big-to-fail problem.
It appears that the Fed is not yet satisfied that this threat has been removed.
Daniel K. Tarullo, the Fed governor who oversees regulation, made it clear on Tuesday that the largest banks need to be subject to some stricter measures, which he outlined. One proposal is for higher capital at banks that rely heavily on short-term borrowing, which can evaporate during crises, causing a cash squeeze. Another requires the biggest global firms to hold even more capital to cover the risks of their size and complexity.
These initiatives could set off another wave of resistance from the financial industry. Still, Mr. Tarullo suggested the stakes were high. He said that the Fed's mission would be complete only after the extra measures were in place.
"This regime would conform to the mandate given us by Congress to apply to large banking organizations more exacting regulatory and supervisory requirements that become progressively stricter as the systemic importance of a firm increases," Mr. Tarullo said in a statement.
Another of these added measures could offset the problems caused by Basel's risk weighting. It concerns something called a leverage ratio. This approach requires banks to hold capital at a fixed percentage of total assets without taking into account risk weightings. In other words, a leverage ratio effectively treats government bonds the same as, say, credit card loans. Regulators are close to setting a leverage ratio in excess of the Basel minimum, which is 3 percent of assets.
Ms. Bair thinks it makes sense to raise it to 8 percent.
While the Fed is taking a tougher stance in some areas, it opted for a softer approach to mortgages, even though bad home loans played a central role in the crisis.
The concessions it made are arcane but could be significant. The Fed's first draft of the Basel rules suggested that banks hold more capital for mortgages with features that might make them more likely to default. One crucial metric is loan to value, which measures a mortgage as a percentage of the house price. Loans in excess of 90 percent of the house's value are theoretically riskier than ones at 75 percent, which have a bigger down payment. Using risk weighting conservatively, the Fed initially proposed increasing capital as the loan-to-value ratio rose.
But that approach was taken out of the final rules. One reason the Fed pulled back was that the mortgage industry pointed out that some loans with riskier features performed well in the crisis. Also, rules unrelated to Basel III prevent lenders from writing loans that the borrower might find it hard to repay.
Some consumer advocates supported the Fed's move.
"There is ample evidence that lenders can extend mortgage credit to low-wealth households in a safe and sound manner, even with low-down-payment mortgages," Roberto G. Quercia, a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said. "It is good to see a regulator recognizing the risks of overcorrection."
Still, other banking specialists say they think that high loan-to-value ratios were partly responsible for the flood of foreclosures during the crisis and that the Fed should have singled out such loans in its new Basel rules.
"It is hard to understand how regulators could ignore loan-to-value ratios in risk-weighting mortgages," Ms. Bair said. "They clearly influence the likelihood and size of mortgage losses."

        
A New Fed Thought for 'Too Big to Fail' Banks: Shrink Them
        
Banks Pass Fed's Tests; Critics Say It Was Easy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BONDS (69%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Reserve System; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Tarullo, Daniel K; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; News Analysis

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Federal Reserve System

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%) Tarullo, Daniel K

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



79 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Showed Powerful Gains Across the Board in June

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC and JACLYN TROP

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Automakers said on Tuesday that the pace of new vehicle sales quickened in June as the industry turned in its strongest performance in six years and solidified its comeback from recessionary levels.
Sales of new models were up across the board, from families replacing older-model sport utility vehicles to businesses buying pickup trucks and fuel-conscious consumers snapping up small cars.
The broad demand in all segments of the market is another sign that the industry's recovery is sustainable and could improve further in the second half of the year. 
The auto companies said that overall sales in the United States grew 9.2 percent during June to 1.4 million vehicles, compared with about 1.28 million in the same month a year ago, according to the Autodata Corporation.
But the bigger surprise was the closely watched seasonally adjusted annual sales rate, which came close to 16 million vehicles during the month -- the highest level recorded since 2007.
Analysts said the results were an indication of an industry hitting a sweet spot in its comeback, because of a combination of pent-up consumer demand, more available credit and a plethora of new products.
''The recent surge in consumer demand is real and not going anywhere,'' said Jesse Toprak, an analyst with the auto research site TrueCar.com.
All three American automakers benefited from a growing need for new pickups by companies in the housing, construction and energy industries.
''Pickup sales in particular continue to grow nearly three times the pace of overall sales,'' said Joseph Spak, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets.
Yet manufacturers also reported big gains in some smaller cars, compact S.U.V.'s and hybrid gas-electric models. The strength of so many models also reflected the financial health of most of the major automakers and their ability to invest in new products and technology.
General Motors, the nation's largest auto company, said it sold about 265,000 vehicles in June, a 6.5 percent increase from a year ago and its best month since September 2008 -- just before the financial crisis began.
Most of the gains came from G.M.'s biggest brand, Chevrolet. The company said its top-selling vehicle, the Silverado pickup, had a nearly 29 percent gain.
G.M. also reported sizable increases in its Cruze compact and the new Spark minicar. And the company continued to build sales in its Cadillac luxury brand, primarily with its ATS model.
''We're in an economy that gets a little stronger each and every month,'' said Kurt McNeil, G.M.'s vice president for United States sales operations.
Ford Motor, the second-biggest American manufacturer, turned in another stellar month in June. Ford said it sold about 235,000 new vehicles in June, a 13.4 percent increase from last year's total.
Ford said combined sales of its small cars soared 39 percent during the month, with the Fiesta subcompact posting a 104 percent increase from a year ago.
Sales of the F-Series pickup, the top-selling vehicle in America, grew about 24 percent in June, its 23rd consecutive monthly sales increase.
Chrysler, the smallest of the Detroit car companies, said it sold more than 156,000 new vehicles in June, an 8.2 percent improvement over last year.
All of Chrysler's brands gained sales, led by the Ram pickup with a 24 percent increase, and the Jeep Grand Cherokee, which improved by 33 percent.
''The fundamentals for continued industry gains remain intact,'' said Reid Bigland, head of Chrysler's United States sales.
The large Japanese automakers all did well in June, mostly because of sales of their bread-and-butter passenger cars and small sport utility vehicles.
Toyota said it sold 195,000 new vehicles during the month, a 9.8 percent increase from a year ago. Both the Camry sedan and the Prius line of hybrid cars had double-digit gains, and sales of the revamped RAV4 S.U.V. improved nearly 36 percent.
Honda had a similar month, reporting that sales increased 9.7 percent to about 137,000 vehicles.
The third major Japanese car company, Nissan, said it had its best June sales performance in the United States. It sold 104,000 new vehicles during the month, a 12.9 percent improvement over a year ago.
The rising sales industrywide did little to bolster the German automaker Volkswagen and the South Korean company Hyundai.
Both V.W. and Hyundai have enjoyed big gains in recent times as they have added new models to their lineups. But their growth appears to have stalled in the face of intense competition.
Hyundai said it sold 65,000 vehicles during June, a 1.9 percent increase from a year ago. And V.W. reported that sales, including its Audi luxury brand, fell 0.3 percent during the month.
One unlikely segment that made big gains in June was battery-powered cars, which had been lagging the overall market.
Nissan said that sales of its all-electric Leaf rose 315 percent during the month, and G.M. reported that sales of the Volt, its plug-in hybrid, climbed 53 percent. Those gains were heavily subsidized by sales incentives and lower sticker prices intended to spur demand.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Chevrolet Cruze
Chevrolet Mailbu CHARTS: How the Industry Fared
How the Automakers Fared
 Most Popular Cars and Trucks (Source: MotorIntelligence.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); NEW PRODUCTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PICKUP TRUCKS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (73%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); HYBRID VEHICLES (73%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (74%); TRUECAR INC (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (74%); F (NYSE) (74%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (74%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



80 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2567 words

HEADLINE: As Sweet as ...

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
MOUNT AIRY, N.C. -- The sonker has become my Moby Dick.
I came here to Surry County, where the cooking has Appalachian roots and the Blue Ridge Mountains are a short drive away, in search of the sonker. The dessert is baked nowhere else in the nation. But as I tried to get to the bottom of what makes a sonker a sonker, I realized that, as with so many country recipes, definitive answers are as elusive as that white whale.
A big, deep, soupy mess of warm fruit or soft sweet potato, the sonker was made to feed everyone who happened to be working at the farm on any given summer day. Like the many other players in the loose-knit team of dishes based on cooked fruit and bread, it began as a way to stretch fruit that was perhaps past its glory or make use of economical fillings like wild blackberries.
A big pan of sonker was easy to haul to the church supper or the event in the South known as the ''covered dish.'' It is less fussy than a traditional round pie, and easier to serve to a crowd. 
At this point, the astute reader is probably thinking this sounds like a cobbler with a funny name. But what is a cobbler, really? Is it the freewheeling cousin of the crisp? The Southern answer to the thrifty New England brown Betty? A pan dowdy with integrity? A pie for lazy people?
If you are looking for clarity, I apologize. Unlike a classic pie, which everyone can pretty much agree on, the broader category of baked fruit desserts like cobblers and crisps is at once specific and general. These dishes are so regional that people within the same county will disagree on the proper form, but so accessible and varied in interpretation that no one has a lock. A proper cobbler (or a crisp or a Betty or a sonker) is what you grew up eating.
''I think of them all as a Hail Mary for dying fruit,'' said Amanda Hesser, a former New York Times food writer who created the Food 52 Web site and wrote ''The Essential New York Times Cookbook,'' which explores several examples of the genre. ''This whole category is really plain desserts that have been well marketed with good names. Who doesn't want to try a slump?''
(A slump, by the way, is juicy fruit simmered on a stove with steamed dumplings. It is reminiscent of a British steamed pudding. You there in Massachusetts may call it a grunt. But I digress.)
Like many Northeasterners, Ms. Hesser prefers the crisp, with its crumbly oatmeal topping, or the brown Betty, made by layering fruit and buttered bread crumbs.
In the South, it would be hard to find someone who doesn't prefer a cobbler. The Betty is rare, since biscuits and cornmeal have long been the go-to breads and there historically hasn't been a lot of leftover bread to use up.
But exactly what constitutes a true cobbler is the kind of question that can lead to conversations more intense than those that center on football or God.
It's not so much the filling, although there are those in Georgia and South Carolina who believe nothing but peaches should be in the pan. What's on top is really the cobbler Mason-Dixon Line. You grew up in a family that made it either with biscuits, or batter, or pie dough.
''I grew up with a batter cobbler,'' said Virginia Willis, the Southern chef and cookbook author. She is from Macon County, deep in South Georgia, where the start of peach season was so important that school administrators planned spring break around it. ''It was that cuppa cuppa cuppa thing that turned into a cake,'' she said, referencing an easily remembered formula based on equal parts of milk, self-rising flour and sugar.
Edna Lewis, the careful cook from Virginia whose books are considered definitive tomes in the Southern culinary canon, often suggested a lattice top on her peach cobbler, with bits of raw dough tucked into the filling before baking. In parts of Alabama and Louisiana, a cobbler is always topped with biscuit dough. At countless barbecue joints across the South, cobbler is often nothing more than overly sweet canned peaches baked in a hotel pan with commercial cake mix.
''So a cobbler is biscuit dough on fruit goo or modern cake batter on fruit goo? Anything goes? Wrong, wrong, wrong!'' said Nancie McDermott, a North Carolina cookbook author and food historian.
She, like others, waxes indignant at such culinary inexactitudes. ''In my part of North Carolina, a cobbler is a big, rectangular pan with the fruit and a pie crust,'' she said.
Biscuits are never good the second day, she said, so why put them on a cobbler?
But disputes about cobbler become mere child's play when one attempts to define the sonker. Like a few other Southern cooks, Ms. McDermott has tried to get to the bottom of the grand mystery. She includes a recipe in her book, ''Southern Pies.''
One common component is something simply called dip, a boiled amalgam of milk, sugar and a thickener like flour or cornstarch and perhaps a drop or two of vanilla. It tastes a bit like sweetened condensed milk.
''It's so specific and distinctive,'' she said. ''There's nothing else like that in my world of Southernness.''
After a couple of days in Surry County, I found myself no less closer to unraveling the riddle that is the sonker.
There were clues at the Edwards-Franklin House, which was built in 1799. About 35 years ago, its supporters were looking for a way to raise money for its upkeep. The notion of a sonker festival came up during a dinner where sonker was served. A lively debate over what constituted a sonker ensued, said Cama Merritt, who was there with her husband, Robert. He had grown up in Mount Airy, which with nearly 10,000 people is the largest town in the county. He had never heard of sonkers.
''They were for people who lived out in the country,'' Ms. Merritt said.
Most people seem to agree that the essential characteristics of sonkers are these: They are juicier than cobblers. They are deeper than cobblers. They used to be made in what Southern country cooks called bread pans. Deep, square and designed to fit exactly inside a wood-burning stove, bread pans were pressed into service throughout the day for biscuits and, in Surry County, for sonkers.
There appears to be a racial divide among sonker cooks. Emma Jean Tucker, an African-American in charge of the sonker festival, says that when she was growing up, a cobbler was two layers of pie dough filled with syrupy fruit. A sonker, on the other hand, is filled with sliced sweet potatoes, sugar, butter, water and, often, buttermilk.
Still, both forms are served at the festival, where they're all referred to as sonkers.
Others in the county's small black population concur on the sweet potatoes, and say that the sweet gravy that results is crucial. ''That sweet, thick juice, that's the important part,'' said Melody Fonville, a Pentecostal minister whose mother, Emily Woodbury, 71, is widely said to make the best sweet potato sonker in the county.
And a sonker is not made with fruit -- that's a cobbler. Her mother is firm on that point. ''She'll say, 'I'll fix a couple of cobblers and a sonker,' '' Ms. Fonville said. Her mother sells them at the church for $3 a cup or $12 a pan, even though her children say she is not charging enough.
To some white people in the county, the sonker is made with a batter, which has become more popular as people have less time to roll out a pie dough.
Wilma Fleming has been making batter sonkers all her life. She cranks them out every morning for her son, who owns Barney's Cafe on Main Street in Mount Airy. It's called Barney's after Barney Fife, the fictional deputy sidekick in ''The Andy Griffith Show.'' Some years ago, Mount Airy turned itself into a faux Mayberry in honor of Mr. Griffith, who was born here.
''Maybe you call this a cobbler or maybe this is a sonker,'' Ms. Fleming said. ''I was raised on a farm, so we cooked everything we could get our hands on. I'm a plain country cook, and this is how I make them.''
Over at the Mayberry Motor Inn, a room is dedicated to Aunt Bee memorabilia. Alma Venable, the proprietor, even looks a little like the TV character. With the same calm but firm guidance Aunt Bee offered Opie, Ms. Venable explains that a proper sonker is made with a crust.
And the fine line that separates a sonker from a cobbler?
''You have the violin and you have the fiddle,'' she said. ''The sonker is the fiddle.''
A Fruitful Glossary
Cobbler
The close country cousin to a pie, which can be topped with either a pastry crust, a biscuit dough or a batter. As for the name, some say the biscuit dough makes the dish look as if it is topped with cobblestones, or that it is a dish that was cobbled together. More erudite thinkers trace the dish to the 14th-century English word cobeler, meaning wooden bowl.
Sonker
A soupy, deep-dish baked dessert of sweet potatoes or fruit topped with a crust or a batter. Specific to Surry County, N.C., and made in a deep pan, it is big enough to feed a large farm family. You might have a hard time distinguishing it from a cobbler unless you grew up there.
Brown Betty
An economical dish with thrifty Colonial roots, it is essentially nothing more than butter, bread crumbs and fruit, baked so some of the bread forms a soft inner stuffing and the rest turns crispy on top.
Buckle
Closer to cake than any of its fruity siblings. Batter envelops the fruit, which bakes into something you can eat with a fork. Some recipes add a streusel topping, which helps emphasize the buckled surface.
Grunts and Slumps
American cousins to British steamed puddings, despite the undignified names. Fruit is stewed on the stovetop, then topped with biscuit dough or a batter which then steams into soft dumplings. (In some parts of the South, these are often simply called dumplings.)
Crumbles and Crisps
These are so similar they're nearly indistinguishable, but people will still argue their differences endlessly. Either way, a sweetened, spiced topping -- usually built on oatmeal but sometimes on flour -- is crumbled or sprinkled over fruit and baked until crunchy.
Recipe: Lazy Sonker
8 tablespoons (1 stick) butter
4 heaping cups (about 1 1/2 pounds) hulled strawberries (halved if large) or pitted cherries
1/2 teaspoon vanilla extract
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons sugar
1 cup plus 2 tablespoons self-rising flour
1 cup milk
1/2 teaspoon salt
1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Put 5 tablespoons butter in a 9-by-12-inch baking pan, and place in oven; remove when melted.
2. In a large saucepan, combine fruit, vanilla, 1/4 cup sugar, 1 tablespoon butter and 1 cup water. Place over low heat and simmer until fruit is slightly tender, about 5 minutes. Remove from heat. Drain fruit, reserving liquid and fruit separately; there should be about 1 cup liquid.
3. In a small saucepan, combine remaining 2 tablespoons butter, 2 tablespoons of the sugar and 2 tablespoons of the flour. Place over medium heat and stir until butter melts and mixture is well blended and thickened, about 2 minutes. Add 1/2 cup of the liquid from the fruit, and whisk until smooth. Add another 1/2 cup liquid and whisk again. Add mixture to fruit, combining well.
4. In a medium bowl, combine milk, remaining 1 cup flour, the salt and remaining 3/4 cup sugar. Whisk to consistency of pancake batter.
5. Pour fruit mixture into the pan with the melted butter. Carefully pour batter over fruit, taking care to spread it so it touches the edge of the pan. There will be some bare spots. Bake until crust is golden, about 35 minutes.
Yield: 8 servings
Adapted from Wilma Fleming, Barney's Cafe, Mount Airy, N.C.
Recipe: Cherry and Coconut Brown Betty
Butter, for greasing baking dish
4 cups halved and pitted cherries (from about 1 1/2 pounds whole cherries)
1/2 cup sugar
1/2 cup freshly grated coconut (see note)
2 cups fresh bread crumbs (preferably from brioche, challah or country bread)
Chilled heavy cream, for serving
1. Heat oven to 350 degrees. Butter an 8-inch-square baking dish. Spread 1 cup cherries in bottom of dish. Sprinkle with 2 tablespoons sugar, 2 tablespoons coconut and 1/2 cup bread crumbs. Repeat three more times with cherries and dry ingredients.
2. Cover baking dish with foil. Bake until cherry juice bubbles and candies a bit on the edges, about 1 hour. Remove foil and place dish under a broiler to toast the top layer, 1 to 3 minutes.
3. Serve warm; pass a pitcher of chilled cream at the table for drizzling on top.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings
Adapted from ''The Essential New York Times Cookbook: Classic Recipes for a New Century,'' by Amanda Hesser
Recipe: Peach Cobbler
3 cups sifted all-purpose flour (345 grams)
1 1/2 teaspoons kosher salt
1 teaspoon granulated sugar
1 cup (2 sticks) unsalted butter, cut into 1/2-inch pieces and frozen for 10 minutes
2 tablespoons lard or vegetable shortening, frozen for 10 minutes and cut into small pieces
1 to 2 teaspoons granulated sugar, for sprinkling on top crust, optional
8 cups firm but ripe peeled, sliced peaches
3/4 cup granulated sugar
2 tablespoons all-purpose flour
1/4 teaspoon salt
1/2 teaspoon freshly grated nutmeg
4 tablespoons (1/2 stick) butter, thinly sliced
1. Make the pastry: Set aside a small bowl of ice water. On a work surface, mound flour, salt and sugar, and mix to blend. Top with frozen butter and lard or shortening, and use a pastry cutter or your fingers to mix until it resembles coarse meal; some large pieces of the fats should still be visible.
2. Quickly form a mound and, with your finger, draw a trench down the center. Sprinkle trench with 1 tablespoon ice water and fluff flour so it absorbs the water. Repeat three times, drawing trenches and sprinkling each with 1 tablespoon ice water, so 4 tablespoons of water have been incorporated. The dough should be starting to clump in large pieces. If necessary, add water by droplets until dough begins to form a mass.
3. Gather dough with a pastry scraper. Working quickly, use the heel of your hand to smear an egg-size piece of dough by pushing it away from you. Continue with remaining dough (about 6 smears total), then gather dough again and repeat the process. Shape into 2 flat disks, and cover each in a double-thickness of plastic wrap, pressing wrapped disks to further shape and bind them. Refrigerate for at least 2 hours or overnight.
4. Roll out one chilled disk to 1/8-inch thickness, large enough to line and slightly overhang an 8-inch-square 2-inch-deep baking dish, or other shallow 2-quart pan. Trim to leave 1/2 inch of pastry above rim, refrigerating both pan and trimmings. Roll out remaining dough to about 1/8-inch thickness, to cover top of cobbler, again trimming and refrigerating excess dough. Slide top crust onto a plate, and refrigerate.
5. Make the filling: Heat oven to 425 degrees. In a mixing bowl, toss together peaches, sugar, flour, salt and nutmeg. Place mixture in the crust-lined baking dish, and tuck chilled trimmings into the center and sides of the filling, scattering them throughout. Top with butter slices. Moisten rim of dough with water and slide flat pastry crust on top. Press edges of dough to seal, and cut a few 1-inch slits in top crust. If desired, sprinkle with sugar.
6. Bake for 15 minutes. Reduce heat to 375 degrees, and continue to bake until crust is deep golden brown and filling begins to bubble through slits, 30 to 40 more minutes. Cool cobbler on a rack until warm. If desired, serve with lightly sweetened whipped cream or ice cream.
Yield: 6 to 8 servings
Adapted from Edna Lewis
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Wilma Fleming serving her peach sonker, which she makes with a batter, at Barney's Cafe in Mount Airy, N.C. (D1)
 Above, Wilma Fleming's peach sonker and, top, hot strawberries ready for a sonker, top right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAYMOND MCCREA JONES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (65%); WRITERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (69%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



81 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1042 words

HEADLINE: A Dizzying Condo Market

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
TORONTO -- Sandwiched between two rail lines in this city's core, great factories once produced the finest Canada could offer the world: Magic baking powder, Brunswick bowling alley flooring and Massey Ferguson farm equipment.
Those factories and many others here have been long abandoned or demolished, but the area is bustling. It is now called Liberty Village and it is packed with high-rise condominiums, largely built over the last five years, with many more still under construction.
The popularity of the Liberty Village downtown condominium development is a highly visible sign that Toronto's effort to create a livable city through densely populated neighborhoods is a roaring success. 
Yet some Canadians see the frenzied building boom that repopulated this part of downtown Toronto and worry that it may end badly.
Historically low interest rates and financially healthy banks eager to lend have spurred Canadians to shop for houses and condos. So builders built. Just over 55,000 new condo units are under construction in the city, many of them along Toronto's condo alley, which starts at Liberty Village and heads east for about three miles through the downtown core. Median condo prices have risen 25 percent since 2009. Two-bedroom condos of about 850 to 900 square feet in Liberty Village sell for about $500,000.
For Toronto, this is crazy.
''There is no question that the housing market in Canada is overshooting,'' said Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist of CIBC World Markets. ''Now the cocktail party conversation in Canada is: 'Will this lead to a U.S. style crash?'''
The worriers are not just on the party circuit. Last month, the Bank of Canada said that the growing inventory of unsold condos in Toronto could eventually create ''the risk of an abrupt correction in prices and residential construction activity.''
After almost five years of growth, high-rise condo sales were down 6.4 percent in May, according to the Toronto Real Estate Board. The worry now is that prices will also start to follow a downward path.
Strict mortgage rules and a centralized and conservatively managed banking system helped Canada sidestep the kind of real estate collapse that afflicted the United States in 2008.
''In Canada during the recovery it was almost a crime not to take a mortgage,'' said Mr. Tal, who works for a unit of the Canadian Imperial Bank of Commerce, one of the five large banks that dominate the country's mortgage lending business. ''We were able to borrow our way out of this recession, which is why we are now sitting on this elevated debt level.''
Canadian politicians do not want an American-style crash here. Jim Flaherty, the finance minister, recently scolded Canadian banks for discounting mortgage rates. He has been worried that Canadian household indebtedness has risen over the last three years. His government has tightened up mortgage lending rules by, among other things, shortening the length of mortgages.
Canadian banks have also kept tight rein on developers. Before developers are lent construction money, they generally must sell 70 to 80 percent of units in any project in advance. Given that, Urbanation, a company that tracks the Toronto condo industry for developers and lenders, estimates that 89 percent of the units now being built in Toronto are already sold.
Buyers who do get cold feet and abandon their purchases lose their 20 percent deposits, a significant amount in a city where the average condo sales price was $372,768 in May. Ontario law also makes it easy for developers to recover the full purchase price in court.
But other government entities encouraged the boom. Historically, Toronto, Canada's largest city, met its housing needs like so many North American cities -- by sprawling. But when the province of Ontario designated much of the undeveloped land northeast of Toronto as a greenbelt, many developers went downtown to buy former industrial land.
At the same time, buyers, particularly young ones, started to favor downtown living over long commutes on Toronto's increasingly congested roads and overtaxed subway and commuter train system.
On top of that, Canada changed its immigration rules, so the 381,750 immigrants who came to Toronto from 2006 to 2011 were increasingly affluent or had wealthy relatives back in their home countries. For many of them, real estate as an investment, and condos in particular, are more attractive than low-interest bank accounts and more certain than stocks.
In its report, the Bank of Canada said that it was concerned that the high level of purchases by investors may have ''boosted construction in the condominium market beyond demographic requirements,'' an analysis disputed by Urbanation and others.
Low vacancy rates in Toronto make it easy for condo owners to find renters, while resale statistics suggest that most of those investor-purchasers are holding their units for long-term gains rather than flipping them for quick profits.
David Wex, co-founder and partner of Urban Capital, a developer that is building, among other things, a major project called River City at the eastern end of downtown Toronto's condo alley, remains cautious. He said that about half of the 650 units in one of his recent projects within walking distance of the city's financial district were sold to investors. But like many developers, Mr. Wex limits the number of units anyone can buy in advance of construction to minimize his risk of borrowers' defaults.
''Any number of developers will tell you everything's fine, but it's a self-interested comment,'' Mr. Wex said. ''No one knows. There's no developer out there that doesn't want things to calm down a little bit. Maybe it's calmed down too much, who knows?''
Mr. Tal said that a gradual fall in prices through ''a boring, slow slowdown'' of as much as 10 percent ''would be desirable.'' He added that ''the hope is that prices will basically stagnate for four or five years.''
Mr. Tal, like many economists, believes that Canada will come in for a soft landing, not a crash. But Toronto's condo industry still feels uncertain.
While Mr. Wex's company continues to develop in Toronto, it's also moving into Halifax, Nova Scotia, and Winnipeg, Manitoba. Those places, he said, ''haven't had the crazy boom.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Liberty Village development is popular in Toronto, where median condo prices have risen 25 percent since 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE PAYNE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 The River City project by Urban Capital, above, and David Wex, the company's co-founder, left, at the site. Mr. Wex said he was cautious about the market. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS YOUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (94%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (93%); REAL ESTATE (91%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); MORTGAGE LOANS (84%); CITIES (78%); BOWLING (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); HOME PRICES (76%); RECESSION (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (76%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); INTEREST RATES (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); BOWLING CENTERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%)

COMPANY: CANADIAN IMPERIAL BANK OF COMMERCE (83%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (54%)

TICKER: CM (TSX) (83%); CM (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: JIM FLAHERTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (94%) ONTARIO, CANADA (94%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



82 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Resists Calls to Scale Back

BYLINE: By JACK EWING; Mark Scott contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
In many ways, Deutsche Bank operates in two different realms.
Deutsche Bank's blocklong headquarters in London's financial district oozes the wealth and sophistication one would expect of a global investment bank competing with the likes of Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase. The modern eight-story building even has its own full-time curator, who has lined the walls with works by contemporary artists like Damien Hirst and David Hockney.
A different side of Deutsche Bank is on view at Postbank, the sleepy retail unit whose branches are ubiquitous in German towns and cities and have long served the basic needs of citizens. Depositors wait in line amid racks of greeting cards and shelves stacked with manila envelopes and packing tape. The tellers double as postal clerks.
Its blend of provincialism and global ambition reflects Deutsche Bank's role as a so-called universal bank, a combination of branch network and investment house that gathers all those German deposits and puts them to work in global capital markets. 
But the universal banking model is under attack by regulators on several continents as the industry faces new regulatory pressures. Some new rules could potentially force Deutsche Bank to separate its investment banking activities, the largest in Europe, from the less glamorous business of taking consumer deposits and writing loans.
The question confronting Deutsche Bank managers is whether those pressures could be intense enough to undermine the bank's ability to compete with the big American banks.
''If all the measures before us were implemented as proposed,'' Anshu Jain, the co-chief executive of Deutsche Bank, told an audience in Frankfurt last month, ''they would practically spell the end of over 100 years of universal banking in Europe.''
Regulators are leaning on all big banks with measures like bonus caps, transaction taxes and higher capital requirements. But Deutsche Bank is under particular scrutiny because of a perception -- considered grossly unfair by bank management -- that it is too thinly cushioned against losses if there were another financial crisis.
The regulatory pressure comes in addition to a host of other challenges, including a long list of official investigations and lawsuits, most linked to investment banking, that are likely to be a burden on Deutsche Bank profits, and its reputation.
American regulators in particular seem to have set the bank up as a straw man that could collapse in the wake of another financial crisis. In what could be interpreted as a warning of regulation, Thomas M. Hoenig, vice chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, told Reuters last month that Deutsche Bank was ''horribly undercapitalized.''
The unusually harsh statement came only weeks after Mr. Jain had assured shareholders that Deutsche Bank was one of the best-capitalized banks in the world. Mr. Jain was using a different measure of capital than Mr. Hoenig did, reflecting an intense debate in policy-making circles about the right way to measure bank risk.
European rivals like UBS in Switzerland or the Royal Bank of Scotland in Britain have already reduced the size of their investment banks under pressure from government regulators who want to make sure they never again have to ask taxpayers for a bailout. Others like UniCredit in Italy have been hobbled by the euro zone financial crisis. Deutsche Bank, however, seems determined to keep its two-track focus.
Deutsche Bank maintains that it can handle the additional capital requirements and remain a force in investment banking. Still, the outside critics have clearly been a source of frustration for Mr. Jain, who played a large role in building up the investment banking business after joining Deutsche Bank in 1995.
Measured by revenue, Deutsche Bank is the largest investment bank in Europe and sixth worldwide behind the American banks, according to Dealogic, a data provider. Deutsche Bank also consistently ranks near the top of banks worldwide in managing large sales of debt or shares, syndicated loans, or mergers and acquisitions.
Mr. Jain, 50, shares power with Jürgen Fitschen, 64, the other co-chief executive. Polished and confident, Mr. Jain is more often the face of Deutsche Bank to its global clients, while Mr. Fitschen focuses more on the German market.
Since taking over a little more than a year ago, they have increased the bank's capital, including raising 2 billion euros, or $2.6 billion, in a sale of new shares in April. They have vowed to instill a sense of ethics that they acknowledge was missing in the years before the financial crisis began in 2008.
Deutsche Bank is one of numerous banks suspected by American and British authorities of manipulating benchmarks used to set interest rates on trillions of dollars in loans. Deutsche Bank has said that no senior managers were involved in any wrongdoing. Still, that and other legal proceedings have prompted the bank to set aside 2.4 billion euros to cover potential settlements or judgments.
On Monday, Deutsche Bank was among 13 banks accused by European antitrust regulators of colluding to block competition in the market for credit derivatives. A bank spokesman declined to comment on the complaint by the European Commission.
Mr. Jain, a native of India who earned a master's degree in business at the University of Massachusetts, has worked hard to shift the focus from problems of the past to what he insists is a bright future for Deutsche Bank deploying German savings in the global economy. German deposits at Deutsche Bank total more than 300 billion euros, and are a crucial source of financing.
Mr. Jain, who declined a request for an interview, has won praise from some investors who have criticized Deutsche Bank over what they perceived as lax ethical standards and thin capital buffers.
''It's going in the right direction,'' said Hans-Christoph Hirt, director of Hermes Equity Ownership Services, which represents the interests of pension funds and other large investors. ''They are doing a lot of very sensible things in the areas where we criticized them.''
Some regulators also remain doubtful whether recent moves by Deutsche Bank to increase its capital are sufficient. With its enormous portfolio of derivatives, valued at well over $1 trillion, Deutsche Bank is clearly too big to fail. Any problems at the bank could reverberate around the global financial system.
The Federal Reserve is seeking a new rule requiring foreign banks to hold capital in the United States in proportion to their activities in the country, a regulation that would hit Deutsche Bank particularly hard because of its big presence on Wall Street. Deutsche Bank has resisted efforts to set aside its capital by country, preferring instead to keep it under one global umbrella.
By one commonly used measure, Deutsche Bank is indeed among the better-capitalized banks in the world. Its ratio of capital to assets, or total money at risk, is 9.6 percent, up from just 5.9 percent when Mr. Jain and Mr. Fitschen took over the bank in 2012 from Josef Ackermann.
Some banking experts, however, question the way Deutsche Bank and other institutions have calculated their risk, using methodology that allows them discretion in estimating the chances that a loan or other asset could sour.
Among regulators, academics and some analysts, there is growing sentiment that the use of so-called risk-weighted assets to calculate capital is fundamentally flawed. ''This is like asking the poachers to be game wardens,'' said Adrian Blundell-Wignall, a well-known financial markets expert at the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.
Using another yardstick, known as the leverage ratio, Deutsche Bank still looks risky compared with its peers. According to estimates by James Chappell, an analyst at Berenberg Bank, a private bank in Hamburg, Deutsche Bank borrows $50 for every dollar of its own money that it lends or otherwise deploys in the market. It is Deutsche Bank's leverage ratio that prompted Mr. Hoenig's comments last month.
Mr. Blundell-Wignall, citing O.E.C.D. research, said that banks' ratio of borrowed money to its own equity should not exceed 20 to 1. Banks with more than that ''are potential accidents waiting to happen,'' he said. Most large American banks have less leverage, because of tougher regulations than in Europe.
Deutsche Bank said in its first-quarter financial report that its ratio of borrowed money to capital was 36 to 1 at the end of March using European accounting standards. Using accounting methods more comparable to that used by American banks, the ratio was just 21 to 1, the bank said.
Some analysts say that Deutsche Bank might be forced to scale back its ambitions. Mr. Chappell of Berenberg Bank estimated that the cost to Deutsche Bank of meeting new requirements on capital would consume four years' worth of profits.
''It can remain as a universal bank,'' Mr. Chappell said, ''but once they are properly capitalized, returns will be significantly lower.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A branch of Postbank, the retail unit of Germany's Deutsche Bank, in Frankfurt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY THOMAS LOHNES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
The London headquarters of Deutsche Bank, which has maintained retail and investment banking despite regulatory pressure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES)
 Jürgen Fitschen, left, and Anshu Jain, Deutsche Bank's co-chief executives, have increased the bank's capital since taking over. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL PROBST/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK BRANCHES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (63%); LITIGATION (61%)

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) GERMANY (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



83 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 733 words

HEADLINE: Calculating the Effect On Social Security

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN

 BODY:
The Social Security Administration says that the immigration bill passed by the Senate would help its coffers, adding $276 billion in revenue over the next 10 years while costing only $33 billion.
But 10 years is a short time when you consider that a vast majority of the new and newly legalized immigrants would be paying into the system during that period and drawing out their Social Security benefits later. That is the problem with attempts to determine the effect of immigration on Social Security in the long haul -- every study is going to have some sort of end point, after which people who have paid in are going to start drawing out.
The Social Security Administration's chief actuary, Stephen C. Goss, says he believes that even 75 years out, there will be a net gain from immigrants, as he wrote in May. That is because their withdrawals will be offset by their children's contributions. 
Such estimates are based on a lot of assumptions, says Paul N. Van de Water, a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, like how many children the newcomers are likely to have (higher birth rates among immigrants taper off with time), how many are low-skilled versus high-skilled (low-skilled workers tend to cost the system more, while high-skilled workers pay in more than they get out) and just how many new immigrants are admitted under the bill, all of which are open questions.
''It's amazing that the actuaries have said it would be positive in the long run,'' Mr. Van de Water said. ''It's a lot of moving parts.''
Economists who have studied the issue tend to agree that more immigration is better, but that the effect is small. ''There are other better reasons to be for or against more immigration, besides its effect on Social Security,'' Mr. Van de Water said.
James P. Smith, an expert on labor markets at the RAND Corporation, added that it was misleading to consider the effect of immigration on Social Security alone. ''Immigrants contribute on net to Social Security and health care,'' he said. ''They're a drain on state and local budgets, largely because of education. So isolating one program is always a mistake.'' (Again, it is hard to estimate the long-term effects even of a drain on education budgets because having more educated workers helps the economy.)
There are also two separate pools to consider -- unauthorized immigrants who are here already, about a third of whom pay Social Security taxes, according to government estimates, and the additional immigrants who will arrive through new legal channels. The Center for American Progress, a supporter of immigration reform, says if 70 percent of illegal immigrants are eligible for legal status under the bill, they will contribute $500 billion on net in 36 years -- the period that the baby boomers will put a strain on the system.
It does not include the period in which those immigrants themselves begin to draw more heavily on the system. But Adriana Kugler, a former chief economist at the Labor Department and the lead author of that study, said it did not take into account projections that an influx of immigrants would result in higher wages for everyone, nor did it calculate the contributions of offspring. ''You could look at a longer horizon, but then the benefit is even greater,'' she said.
Republicans have tried to clamp down on the amount that illegal immigrants who paid into the system will be able to withdraw. The Social Security Administration estimates that in 2010 illegal immigrants paid a net contribution of $12 billion, either by working under a fraudulent Social Security number or by using a legitimate Social Security number after overstaying a visa or otherwise losing permission to work. Currently, if such immigrants obtain legal status and can prove their earnings with pay stubs or W-2 forms, they can get credit for those contributions. But the Corker-Hoeven amendment to the Senate bill, which paved the way for passage, would bar them from getting credit for the previous decade's worth of payments even if they obtain legal status.
''To some extent, it's a taking by the federal government,'' said Marielena Hincapié, the executive director of the National Immigration Law Center. ''The people who are going to be most severely impacted by this are going to be low-income immigrants.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ACTUARIAL SERVICES (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION (93%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



84 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 333 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Factory Orders Suggest Manufacturing Is Improving

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Orders to American factories rose in May, helped by a third straight month of stronger business investment. The gains suggest that manufacturing may be picking up after a weak start to the year. 
The Commerce Department said on Tuesday that factory orders rose 2.1 percent in May. April's increase was revised higher, to 1.3 percent from 1 percent.
Most of the increase in May was because of a big jump in commercial aircraft demand. Still, businesses also ordered more machinery, computers and household appliances.
A category of orders that is viewed as a proxy for business investment plans -- which excludes the volatile areas of transportation and defense -- rose 1.5 percent. That rise was even stronger than the gains in the previous two months.
This measure of business investment had not increased for three straight months since the fall of 2011. The consecutive gains suggest manufacturing in the United States could improve in the second half of the year.
Despite its boost to the economy in the first three years after the recession ended, manufacturing has struggled this year. American factories have seen less demand for exports because of a weaker global growth. And businesses reduced their investment in machinery and equipment in the first quarter.
The May report showed that orders for long-lasting goods, like power generation equipment and ships, rose 3.7 percent in May. Orders for nondurable goods, including paper, chemicals and oil, rose 0.7 percent.
Demand for commercial aircraft increased about 51 percent, after a 18.4 percent gain in April and a drop of 43.3 percent in March.
Orders for autos and auto parts fell 2 percent, after jumping 4.1 percent in April, but the decline is most likely temporary.
American automakers on Tuesday reported healthy sales gains in June. Ford Motor's sales soared 13 percent in June compared with a year earlier. Chrysler's sales rose 8 percent. The numbers suggest that auto production will resume a healthy pace in the next months.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Factory Orders: Manufacturers' total new orders, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FACTORY ORDERS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (68%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); AIRCRAFT MFG (58%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



85 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Farm Bill Defeat Shows Agriculture's Waning Power

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The startling failure of the farm bill last month reflects the declining clout of the farm lobby and the once-powerful committees that have jurisdiction over agriculture policy, economists and political scientists said this week.
Although a number of factors contributed to the defeat of the bill -- including Speaker John A. Boehner's failure to rally enough Republican support and Democratic opposition to $20 billion in cuts to the food stamps program -- analysts said the 234 to 195 vote also illustrated the shift in the American population and political power to more urban areas.
''There are a small number of Congressional districts where farming continues to carry much sway,'' said Vincent H. Smith, a professor of agricultural economics at Montana State University. ''Especially in the House, the farm lobby has been substantially weakened.'' 
For much of American history, the agriculture sectors wielded tremendous political power. Farm groups were able to get key farm legislation passed by rallying millions of farmers in nearly every Congressional district. Influential farm state legislators like Representative Jamie L. Whitten of Mississippi, a Democrat who was chairman of the Appropriations Committee and its subcommittee on agriculture, brought billions in agriculture financing to their states and fought off attempts to cut subsidy programs despite pressure from both liberals and conservatives.
Mr. Whitten died in 1995 after 53 years in Congress.
But as Americans have moved to the cities and suburbs, farmers and lawmakers representing districts largely dependent on agriculture have seen their political muscle steadily decline. Just 2.2 million people now work in farming in the United States, or about 2.5 percent of the total work force.
Farming now accounts for about 1 percent of gross national product, down from a high of about 9 percent in 1950. Only 40 lawmakers represent largely farming districts, according to research by Mr. Smith in 2006. He said that number was probably smaller today.
Nonetheless, agriculture groups said they continue to have influence and blamed increased partisanship for the inability of Congress to pass the farm bill.
''Agriculture used to be a nonpartisan issue that both Democrats and Republicans could support,'' said Danny Murphy, president of the American Soybean Association. ''Now people are lining up to take sides; it's nutrition or farm programs,'' he said. ''For us, it's a nonissue. We're farmers, how can we be against food?''
Barry L. Bequette, dean of the School of Agriculture, Research, Extension and Applied Sciences at Alcorn State University in Lorman, Miss., said the issue was not a lack of power. ''Farmers just haven't learned how to utilize the power they have,'' he said. ''All the groups are fractured and focused on their own narrow issues.''
But agricultural economists like Mr. Smith said the Congressional response to last year's drought and this year's debt talks provide more evidence of the waning political influence of agriculture.
Last summer, as the worst dry spell in 50 years was causing widespread damage to farmland and livestock, national farm organizations pushed for the passage of a farm bill that would provide relief. But the groups were unable to muster enough support to even get the bill to the floor for a vote. Representative Frank D. Lucas, Republican of Oklahoma and chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, which did pass a farm bill, made several appeals to House leaders to bring the legislation up for a vote, but they declined.
When the Obama administration and Republican leaders worked out a compromise to avert automatic tax increases in January, Mr. Lucas and Senator Debbie Stabenow, the Michigan Democrat who is chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, tried desperately to get the farm bill included in the talks.
Both touted the savings they had achieved in both the House and Senate version of the bills.
But their pleas were largely unheeded. The Senate instead chose to include in the tax package a slimmed-down farm bill proposal by Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican minority leader.
Mr. McConnell's proposal extended only portions of the current farm bill, which was passed in 2008. The extension did not provide disaster assistance for livestock owners, who had to kill thousands of cows, pigs and chickens because of rising feed prices and lack of water. It eliminated money for conservation programs and financing for fruit and vegetable growers and organic farmers, and cut a program that pays milk producers when feed prices increase.
The proposal did contain provisions to prevent milk prices from rising and left in place direct payments to farmers or farmland owners, whether or not they grow crops. The payments, which total about $5 billion a year, have long been criticized as examples of wasteful government spending.
The bill passed the Senate by 89 to 8, with a reluctant Ms. Stabenow voting for it; it passed the House by 257 to 167. Mr. Lucas also voted for the House bill. Farm groups said they felt equally ignored.
An exasperated Ms. Stabenow summed up the feeling of both farm state lawmakers and the farm sector in an interview shortly after the deal was announced. ''There is absolutely no way to explain this other than agriculture is just not a priority,'' she said.
Collin C. Peterson, the Minnesota Democrat and ranking member on the House Agriculture Committee, sent a letter to House leaders involved in the debt talks. ''I could not believe that you and your leadership team could treat the committee with such disrespect,'' he wrote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker John A. Boehner failed to draw enough Republican support for a bill last month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MANUEL BALCE CENETA/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat, tried to get the farm bill included in the talks over automatic tax increases. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); CROP RESEARCH (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); AGRICULTURAL LENDING (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (69%); HISTORY (69%); FOOD STAMPS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: MONTANA STATE UNIVERSITY (56%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



86 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: The Amazing Energy Race

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN. 
Maureen Dowd is off today.

 BODY:
President Obama delivered his most important national security and jobs speech last week. I think he also mentioned something about climate change.
The headline from Obama's speech was his decision to cut America's carbon emissions by bypassing a dysfunctional Congress and directing the Environmental Protection Agency to implement cleaner air-quality standards. If the rules are enacted -- they will face many legal challenges -- it would hasten our switching from coal to natural gas for electricity generation. Natural gas emits about half the global-warming carbon dioxide of coal, and it is in growing supply in our own country. As a result of market forces alone, coal has already fallen from about one-half to one-third of America's electric power supply. 
But I would not get caught up in the anti-carbon pollution details of the president's speech. I'd focus on the larger messages. The first is that we need to reorder our priorities and start talking about the things that are most consequential for our families, communities, nation and world. That starts with how we're going to power the global economy at a time when the planet is on track to grow from seven billion to nine billion people in 40 years, and most of them will want to live like Americans, with American-style cars, homes and consumption patterns. If we don't find a cleaner way to grow, we're going to smoke up, choke up and burn up this planet so much faster than anyone predicts. That traffic jam on the Beijing-Tibet highway in 2010 that stretched for 60 miles, involved 10,000 vehicles and took 10 days to unlock is a harbinger of what will come.
''In reducing coal's historic dominance, the president is formalizing a market trend that was already taking shape,'' remarked Andy Karsner, who was an assistant secretary of energy in the last Bush administration. His bigger message, though, was ''no matter where you find yourself on the political spectrum, it's useful for the nation to discuss, debate and consider a strategy for climate change. The consequences of inaction are potentially greater than all the other noise out there.''
Sadly, many Republican ''leaders'' rejected Obama's initiative, claiming it would cost jobs. Really? Marvin Odum, the president of the Shell Oil Company, told me in an interview that phasing out coal for cleaner natural gas -- and shifting more transport, such as big trucks and ships, to natural gas instead of diesel -- ''is a no-brainer, no-lose, net-win that you can't fight with a straight face.''
But, remember, natural gas is a fine gift to our country if, and only if, we extract it in a way that does not leak methane into the atmosphere (methane being worse than carbon dioxide when it comes to global warming) and if, and only if, we extract it in ways that don't despoil land, air or water. The Environmental Defense Fund is working with big oil companies, like Shell, to ensure both.
But there is one more huge caveat: We also have to ensure that cheap natural gas displaces coal but doesn't also displace energy efficiency and renewables, like solar or wind, so that natural gas becomes a bridge to a clean energy future, not a ditch. It would be ideal to do this through legislation and not E.P.A. fiat, but Republicans have blocked that route, which is pathetic because the best way to do it is with a Republican idea from the last Bush administration: a national clean energy standard for electricity generation -- an idea the G.O.P. only began to oppose when Obama said he favored it.
Such a standard would say to every utility: ''Your power plants can use any fuel and technology you want to generate electricity as long as the total amount of air pollutants and greenhouse gases they emit (in both fuel handling and its electricity conversion) meet steadily increasing standards for cleaner air and fewer greenhouse gases. If you want to meet that standard with natural gas, sequestered coal, biomass, hydro, solar, wind or nuclear, be our guest. Let the most cost-effective clean technology win.''
By raising the standard a small amount every year, we'd ensure continuous innovation in clean power technologies -- and jobs that are a lot better than coal mining. You can't make an appliance, power plant, factory or vehicle cleaner without making it smarter -- with smarter materials, smarter software or smarter designs. Nothing would do more to ensure America's national security, stimulate more good jobs and global exports -- the whole world needs these technologies -- than a national clean energy standard. And, of course, the climate would hugely benefit.
Improving our energy system plays to our innovation strength. Clinging to our fossil-fuel past plays to the strengths of Russia and Iran. Why would we do that? Why would the G.O.P.? It's already losing young voters. Question: How many college campuses today have environmental clubs and how many have coal clubs?
''The Germans and the Chinese are already in this clean energy race, and we're still just talking about it,'' said Hal Harvey, the chief executive of Energy Innovation. ''The question is: Do we want to control our energy future, or continue to rent it from other countries?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); TRENDS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); CONSUMPTION (69%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (56%)

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (78%); TIBET (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



87 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WHEELS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: For G.M. And Honda, A Fuel-Cell Partnership

BYLINE: By LINDSAY BROOKE

 BODY:
General Motors and Honda on Tuesday announced an agreement to jointly develop a hydrogen fuel cell to be shared by both automakers for vehicles they would produce around the end of the decade.
Speaking at the announcement in Manhattan, G.M.'s vice chairman, Stephen Girsky, and the president of American Honda, Tetsuo Iwamura, said that by collaborating on a common design and components, they would be able to lower costs and reduce development time. They said the new partnership would also work with energy suppliers and state and local governments to expand the network of hydrogen refueling stations, a critical element in fostering consumer acceptance of fuel-cell vehicles.
Fuel cells, which combine hydrogen gas stored in the vehicle with oxygen from the atmosphere to generate electricity, offer driving distances and refueling times equivalent to gasoline-powered cars. Though the electricity is produced on board, rather than drawn from a battery pack, the vehicles qualify as zero-emission because the only byproduct is water vapor. Many researchers regard fuel cells as more promising than batteries as an electricity source for vehicles. 
Fuel cells also are expected to play a key role in the federal fuel economy regulations set for 2017 to 2025. A section of those rules allows each fuel-cell vehicle to count as 1.75 conventional vehicles in 2020 and 1.5 vehicles in 2021. Such credits enable automakers to somewhat offset the fuel economy of less-efficient vehicles like S.U.V.'s and large trucks.
Additionally, hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles are deemed important for meeting California's zero-emission vehicle requirements scheduled for 2018. Under those rules, automakers would need to sell an estimated 1.4 million fuel-cell vehicles, E.V.'s and plug-in hybrids in California by 2025. And because nine other states are expected to follow California's so-called ZEV law, automakers would need to sell more than half of a million of those vehicles nationwide in 2025.
G.M. and Honda are considered industry leaders in fuel-cell technology, ranking first and second, respectively, in the total number of related patents filed from 2002 to 2012, according to the Clean Energy Patent Growth Index. Both companies have had active fuel-cell development programs for decades -- G.M. since the 1960s.
Honda has produced about 100 examples of its fuel-cell FCX Clarity model, which is available on a lease-only basis in the United States, Europe and Japan. G.M. fielded a fleet of fuel cell Chevrolet Equinoxes that accumulated more than three million miles of consumer road testing.
''We have complementary technologies, and by pooling them we can move development along faster,'' Mr. Girsky said. He described the new relationships as ''a complete sharing of all our respective intellectual properties on the subject.'' He even offered Honda technical assistance on its next fuel-cell car, a 2015 replacement for the Clarity that will be unveiled at the Tokyo Motor Show in September.
High development and materials costs -- G.M. has spent more than $1 billion on its fuel-cell program, according to company engineers -- are forcing automakers into technology partnerships where they can take advantage of their supply chains and manufacturing scale to help lower costs. Last January, the Ford Motor Company, Renault-Nissan and Daimler formed a joint development alliance aimed at making ''affordable, mass-market'' fuel-cell vehicles by 2017. BMW and Toyota have a similar arrangement. Hyundai and Volkswagen also are developing fuel-cell technology independently.
G.M. and Honda executives at the New York announcement indicated that the fuel-cell technology agreement potentially could expand into other joint development projects.
''With G.M. and Honda sharing our technical expertise, we believe we can achieve the world's strongest partnership in the area of fuel-cell technology,'' Mr. Iwamura said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephen Girsky, left, the vice chairman of General Motors, and Tetsuo Iwamura, the president of American Honda. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GENERAL MOTORS AND HONDA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (95%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROGRAMS (78%); PATENTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (60%)

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (59%)

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); GM (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



88 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: William H. Gray III, 71, Pastor and Lawmaker, Is Dead

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
William H. Gray III, a third-generation Baptist minister from Philadelphia who won a seat in Congress in 1978 and rose to become the highest-ranking black lawmaker in the country, died on Monday in London. He was 71.
He died while attending the Wimbledon tennis tournament with his son Andrew, said William Epstein, who was Mr. Gray's communications director in Congress. Mr. Epstein said that Mr. Gray had not been ill and that the cause was not immediately clear. 
Mr. Gray, who served in the House from 1979 to 1991, was a persistent voice for equal rights, education and services for the poor, in the United States and abroad. He pressed for more economic aid for Africa and was a leading critic of South African apartheid, helping shape United States policy, including sanctions, against that country. He led the House Budget Committee in the 1980s, and his fellow Democrats selected him as majority whip in 1989, the third-ranking House leadership position.
Two years later, Mr. Gray surprised many people when he resigned to become president and chief executive of the United Negro College Fund. He went on to lead the nonprofit group to record fund-raising.
''Bill Gray was a trailblazer,'' President Obama said in a statement, ''the first African-American to chair the Budget Committee and to serve as the majority whip.''
Six years before he was elected to Congress, Mr. Gray became pastor of Bright Hope Baptist Church in North Philadelphia, and he would serve as pastor for 35 years. He succeeded his father, William H. Gray Jr., who preached there for 22 years, and his grandfather, William H. Gray Sr., who served from 1925 until his death in 1949. While in Congress, he would return to Philadelphia on weekends to preach.
Mr. Gray had not held elected office when he first ran for a House seat, in 1976, challenging the longtime incumbent, Robert N. C. Nix Sr., in the Democratic primary. Mr. Gray, who had once worked in Mr. Nix's office, lost by fewer than 400 votes. Two years later, after accusing Mr. Nix of losing touch with his district, he won easily.
Mr. Gray was frustrated in his first years in Congress, giving up his seat on the Budget Committee in 1981 after complaining that Democrats were more interested in making deals with Republicans than in spending money on social services.
''It was clear that the Democratic leadership felt they did not want or need the liberal vote,'' he said in an interview with Newsday in 1985.
But Mr. Gray returned to the committee in 1983 and eventually became known as a skilled negotiator and consensus-builder. When he became budget chairman, in 1985, some lawmakers asked whether a black representative from a district that was 80 percent black could see beyond the needs of his constituents.
''I face what all blacks go through,'' Mr. Gray said in The New York Times in 1985. ''People see your skin before they see anything else, and sometimes that's all they see. But you've got to keep on truckin' and hope you have the chance to demonstrate excellence.''
He added, ''If I do an effective job as chairman, I will break down a barrier and demonstrate that race is not an obstacle to heading a major financial committee or winning a leadership post.''
William Herbert Gray III was born in Baton Rouge, La., on Aug. 20, 1941. He spent part of his childhood in Florida, where his father was president of Florida Normal and Industrial College, in St. Augustine, and later Florida A&M College, now university, in Tallahassee. The congressman received his bachelor's degree from Franklin & Marshall College, in Lancaster, Pa., and divinity degrees from Drew Theological Seminary and Princeton Theological Seminary. He worked as a minister at Union Baptist Church in Montclair, N.J., for much of the 1960s while teaching at several colleges.
In 1994, President Bill Clinton appointed Mr. Gray as a special adviser on Haiti.
In addition to his son Andrew, survivors include his wife, the former Andrea Dash; two more sons, William IV and Justin; his mother, Hazel; and several grandchildren.
Late in his Congressional career, some news reports raised questions about Mr. Gray's financial arrangements, including those with his church, but the F.B.I. said the congressman was not the target of an investigation and he was never charged. Some critics speculated that the questions prompted his resignation, or that Mr. Gray wanted to make more money to pay for the education of his growing sons.
''If I wanted money, I would not have become a preacher; I wanted mission,'' Mr. Gray said in his first sermon after announcing his resignation, in June 1991. ''If I wanted money, I would not have become an educator; I wanted mission. If I wanted money, I would not have gone into public service; I wanted mission. I have never been motivated by money. The reason I am changing careers to be head of the United Negro College Fund is because of its mission.''
According to the fund's Web site, Mr. Gray raised more than $2.3 billion while he led the fund, from 1991 to 2004.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William H. Gray III in 1994 with President Bill Clinton. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RANKINGS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TENNIS (77%); SPORTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); FUNDRAISING (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (72%); TOURNAMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NEGRO COLLEGE FUND (55%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (76%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



89 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 535 words

HEADLINE: Motive Remains Uncertain In a Shooting in Midtown

BYLINE: By J. DAVID GOODMAN

 BODY:
The brazen Monday morning shooting on a busy stretch of Ninth Avenue appeared at first to be a straightforward case of violent workplace retribution: a laid-off worker returning for revenge. 
But the detectives' understanding of the shooting, which left a 56-year-old construction foreman wounded in his contracting company's van, grew more complicated on Tuesday with the police saying they were investigating two friends, one with ties to the Gambino crime family and to an earlier killing in Flushing, Queens.
Detectives on Tuesday morning picked up one of the friends -- a Queens man identified as Anthony Manco, 29 -- as he was driving in the Rockaways in what the police characterized as the getaway car from Monday's shooting. Surveillance video showed him on West 49th Street, moments after the shooting, getting into the same car -- which the police said was stolen -- and witnesses identified him as the man who fired the shot. Detectives had a partial license plate of the car.
''We have what we believe to be the shooter in custody; his name is Anthony Manco,'' Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly told reporters after a Police Academy graduation in Brooklyn on Tuesday. ''He was observed at the scene yesterday.''
During questioning, Mr. Manco told the police that he had been at the scene, explaining his presence in the videos, but that he did not carry out the shooting. No video of the crime itself had been located, the police said.
The police said their original suspect, Robert Sasso, 31, a worker recently fired from the construction company, was not the gunman. But they did not rule out his connection to the shooting, which happened at 9:30 a.m. between 48th and 49th Streets.
Mr. Sasso was arrested on Tuesday morning at Kennedy International Airport on an outstanding traffic warrant. He was being questioned by the police about Monday's shooting, as well as the killing of a 46-year-old man, Leslie Balogh, found dead of gunshot wounds on a Queens sidewalk on May 3.
At a news conference later in the day, Mr. Kelly said detectives believed that Mr. Sasso ''may have been at the scene'' of the shooting on Monday. Mr. Sasso had been applying for a construction job at Kennedy Airport on Tuesday when a union official alerted the police and he was arrested, a Port Authority spokesman said.
It was not immediately clear what connection existed between Mr. Manco and the construction foreman, Louis Lamburini, who was shot in the left shoulder at close range as he sat behind the wheel of the van belonging to the company, Judlau Contracting, which is under city contract to perform water tunnel work along Ninth Avenue.
But law enforcement officials said that Mr. Manco and Mr. Sasso were friends and that Mr. Sasso, the grandson of a Gambino family associate, Bobby Sasso, harbored a strong resentment toward Mr. Lamburini over his firing, several weeks before the shooting.
Mr. Lamburini, who was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center, has not been cooperating with the police, officials said, adding another layer of complication to the case that has already sent investigators in several directions.
As of Tuesday evening, Mr. Manco and Mr. Sasso remained in police custody but neither had been charged.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE VIOLENCE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ARRESTS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); WITNESSES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ARREST WARRANTS (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (71%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); PORT AUTHORITIES (67%); PRESS CONFERENCES (66%); CITY GOVERNMENT (63%); AIRPORTS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



90 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: News From Egypt Stymies Indexes

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market ended slightly lower on Tuesday after reports of intensifying political turmoil in Egypt offset good news about the American economy.
Stocks rose much of the day on positive news about car sales, manufacturing and home prices. But the major market indexes turned lower in the afternoon as hundreds of thousands of protesters demand that President Mohamed Morsi be ousted. 
The price of oil climbed close to $100 a barrel on concern that the crisis could disrupt the flow of crude oil from the region.
''It's more or less Egypt unrest,'' said Sal L. Arnuk, a co-founder of Themis Trading. ''These very large protests are being televised and broadcast -- that's spooking people.''
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which had been up as much as 9 points shortly before midday, closed down 0.88 point, or 0.1 percent, at 1,614.08.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 42.55 points, or 0.3 percent, to 14,932.41 The Nasdaq composite index slipped 1.09 points, a fraction of a percent, at 3,433.40
Trading activity was lighter than normal as July 4 holiday nears. The stock market will close at 1 p.m. Eastern time Wednesday and reopen Friday.
Crude oil rose about $1 a barrel on news of the worsening political situation in Egypt. Oil closed up $1.61 at $99.60 a barrel in New York. It last crossed $100 on Sept. 14.
The market's early gains came after several strong economic reports. Auto sales reached 7.8 million in the first six months of the year, the highest first-half total since 2007. Factory orders rose 2.3 percent in May, helped by a third straight month of stronger business investment. And home prices jumped 12.2 percent in May from a year earlier, the most in seven years, according to the real estate data provider CoreLogic. Economists are forecasting that the American economy added 165,000 jobs last month, according to data compiled by FactSet.
Investors and traders are also starting to focus on the quarterly corporate earnings season, which begin in earnest next week. Most corporate profits have come from cutting costs rather than increasing sales.
''We're in the middle of a transition,'' said Christopher J. Wolfe, chief investment officer at Merrill Lynch Private Banking and Investment Group. ''You would expect to see, over the balance of this year and going into next year, somewhat stronger macroeconomic data that translates directly into stronger corporate revenue growth.''
In the bond market, interest rates showed little change. The price of the Treasury's 10-year note, rose 1/32, to 93 23/32, while its yield slipped to 2.47 percent, from 2.48 percent late Monday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); REAL ESTATE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); POLITICS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOME PRICES (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (67%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); PRIVATE BANKING (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CORELOGIC INC (52%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (52%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (52%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (52%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (52%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



91 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Sharp Rise in Women's Deaths From Overdose of Painkillers

BYLINE: By SABRINA TAVERNISE

 BODY:
PORTSMOUTH, Ohio -- Prescription pain pill addiction was originally seen as a man's problem, a national epidemic that began among workers doing backbreaking labor in the coal mines and factories of Appalachia. But a new analysis of federal data has found that deaths in recent years have been rising far faster among women, quintupling since 1999.
More women now die of overdoses from pain pills like OxyContin than from cervical cancer or homicide. And though more men are dying, women are catching up, according to the analysis by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. And the problem is hitting white women harder than black women, and older women harder than younger ones. 
In this Ohio River town on the edge of Appalachia, women blamed the changing nature of American society. The rise of the single-parent household has thrust immense responsibility on women, who are not only mothers, but also, in many cases, primary breadwinners. Some who described feeling overwhelmed by their responsibilities said they craved the numbness that drugs bring. Others said highs made them feel pretty, strong and productive, a welcome respite from the chaos of their lives.
''I thought I was supermom,'' said Crystal D. Steele, 42, a recovering addict who said she began to take medicine for back pain she developed working at Kentucky Fried Chicken. ''I took one kid to football, the other to baseball. I went to work. I washed the car. I cleaned the house. I didn't even know I had a problem.''
Ms. Steele, now a patient at the Counseling Center, a rehabilitation center here, remembers getting calls about deaths of high school classmates while working at an answering service for a local funeral home. She counted about 50 women she had known who had drug-related deaths. She believes that had it not been for a 40-day stint in jail for stealing pain pills, she would have been among them.
''I felt like I sold my soul somewhere along the way,'' said Ms. Steele, whose father was an alcoholic and abusive. ''I didn't feel like I deserved to be given a second chance. I thought my kids would be better off without me.''
For years, drug overdose deaths in the United States were seen as mostly an urban problem that hit blacks hardest. But opioid abuse, which exploded in the 1990s and 2000s and included drugs like OxyContin, Vicodin and Percocet, has been worst among whites, often in rural places. The C.D.C. analysis found that the overdose death rate for blacks in 2010, the most recent year for which there was final data, was less than half the rate for whites. Asians and Hispanics had the lowest rates.
According to the report, 6,631 women died of opioid overdoses in 2010, compared with 10,020 men.
While younger women in their 20s and 30s tend to have the highest rates of opioid abuse, the overdose death rate was highest among women ages 45 to 54, a finding that surprised clinicians. The range indicates that at least some portion of the drugs may have been prescribed appropriately for pain, Dr. Nora Volkow, director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, said in an interview. If death rates were driven purely by abuse, then one would expect the death rates to be highest among younger women who are the biggest abusers.
Deaths among women have been rising for some time, but Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the C.D.C. director, said the problem had gone virtually unrecognized. The study offered several theories for the increase. Women are more likely than men to be prescribed pain drugs, to use them chronically, and to get prescriptions for higher doses.
The study's authors hypothesized that it might be because the most common forms of chronic pain, like fibromyalgia, are more common in women. A woman typically also has less body mass than a man, making it easier to overdose.
Women are also more likely to be given prescriptions of psychotherapeutic drugs, like antidepressants and antianxiety medications, Dr. Volkow said. That is significant because people who overdose are much more likely to have been taking a combination of those drugs and pain medication.
Broader social trends, like unemployment, an increase in single-parent families, and their associated stressors, might have also contributed to the increase in abuse, but they are slow moving and unlikely to be a direct explanation, Dr. Volkow said.
Stella Collins, who runs group therapy sessions at the Counseling Center, said her patients, most of whom are poor, feel trapped. They are squeezing a living out of tiny paychecks. Many get no financial support from the fathers of their children and come from families where alcohol or drugs were abused. Their feelings of inadequacy and shame over not properly caring for their children help drive their addictions, she said.
''Poverty is depression, it's failure, it's sadness, it's low self-esteem,'' said Ms. Collins. Her mother, an addict, died of a heart attack at age 56 after spending money meant for heart medication on pain pills, she said.
''These women are stuck, emotionally and financially,'' Ms. Collins added.
But some of the women also fight their way back.
Kathy Newman, 35, who started using pills in her 20s, after her older sister overdosed, and whose oldest son was born addicted, has been drug-free for two years. She now takes classes, and travels around the county telling her story at schools.
For Ms. Steele, the most motivating image is that of her 12-year-old son's face streaked with tears, looking at her through the glass of the prison visiting area. Her eldest son now has custody of him.
''I was at a big stop sign and it was like, 'O.K., which way are you going to go?' '' she said.
Portsmouth has worked hard to stop addiction. Easy access to prescription pain pills has been shut down. Mothers of dead addicts give talks at schools. And while Ohio's death rate from overdoses, like the national rate, is still climbing, the rate in Scioto County, where Portsmouth is located, has declined in recent years, according to the city health department.
Ms. Collins works with women in group sessions, teaching them how to like themselves again.
''Watching them die is the hardest part,'' Ms. Collins said. ''You sit in this room and you don't know who's going to make it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Crystal D. Steele spoke with other patients on Monday at the Counseling Center, a drug rehabilitation center in Portsmouth, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TOM UHLMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) MAP: Deaths From Overdose: The death rate from drug overdoses among women varies widely from state to state. (Source: Centers for Disease Control and Prevention) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); WOMEN (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); HOMICIDE (77%); CANCER (76%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (73%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (73%); COAL MINING (72%); BASEBALL (70%); SINGLE PARENTS (68%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (66%); CERVICAL CANCER (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



92 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Prime Minister Tells Portuguese He Won't Resign

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
MADRID -- Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho of Portugal on Tuesday defied calls for his resignation, even after his coalition government was torn by divisions over austerity policies that prompted the resignation of a second minister in two days.
In a televised address, Mr. Passos Coelho said that instead he would work toward ''a rapid return to stability,'' hours after his foreign minister, Paulo Portas, resigned and suggested that the government needed to revise its economic policy. 
In announcing his resignation, Mr. Portas did not call for an early election, but his decision, which he called irrevocable, could result in one. Mr. Portas leads the conservative Popular Party, which is the junior partner in the center-right government that was formed with Mr. Passos Coelho's Social Democratic Party after elections in June 2011.
While some opposition leaders urged Mr. Passos Coelho to quit, the prime minister said he would ''not abandon my country'' and would try to heal the rift within his coalition rather than accept Mr. Portas's resignation.
The political turmoil within Portugal's coalition government underscored the increasing tensions in much of Europe over whether spending cuts and other austerity measures are to blame for serial recessions and record unemployment in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other countries on the front line of the euro zone's debt crisis. International lenders and bureaucrats once regarded Portugal as an example of the approach's success.
''The back-to-back resignations throw the political opposition to reform in Portugal into sharp relief and pose serious questions about the country's ability to push ahead, let alone exit, its troubled bailout program,'' wrote Nicholas Spiro, the founder of Spiro Sovereign Strategy, a London consultancy that specializes in sovereign debt risk, in a note to investors. ''The rug is being pulled out from under the Passos Coelho government, and Portugal is now staring at the prospect of early elections.''
Mr. Portas announced his decision just before the current secretary of state for the treasury, Maria Luís Albuquerque, was to become finance minister, replacing Vítor Gaspar, who resigned Monday. Ms. Albuquerque was expected to support the austerity program advocated by Portugal's creditors and put in place by Mr. Gaspar, but Mr. Portas said Tuesday that he disagreed with her appointment.
Mr. Portas's surprise resignation ''opens a period of considerable uncertainty, as parties are going to try tagging each other with the blame for the political crisis,'' said Antonio Barroso, a political analyst who has been covering the euro debt crisis for Teneo Intelligence, a consulting company in New York. Like other analysts, he suggested that Portugal was likely to end up holding a general election in late September, when local elections are scheduled.
Mr. Passos Coelho came to power in the spring of 2011 after the governing Socialists were forced to call early elections and negotiate an international bailout worth 78 billion euros, or $114 billion at the time, with the International Monetary Fund, the European Commission and the European Central Bank.
Since then, the center-right government has won plaudits from creditors for sticking to the terms of the bailout, but its fiscal policies and economic changes have provoked widespread protests and strikes. With Portugal in a third year of recession, Mr. Portas increasingly sought to distance himself and his party from the unpopular spending cuts and tax increases enforced by his government.
In his resignation statement, Mr. Portas said that his differences with Mr. Gaspar were known and that he had hoped that Mr. Gaspar's departure would permit ''opening a different political and economic cycle.''
Portugal's borrowing costs have eased in recent months, as have those of other troubled euro zone economies. Mr. Passos Coelho and its creditors say they hope the country will be able to leave its bailout program in June, as scheduled. However, Mr. Spiro said, Mr. Portas's resignation suggests that ''politically speaking, Portugal's adjustment program is collapsing.''
In the general election two years ago, the Social Democrats won almost 39 percent of the vote, ousting the Socialists, who secured 28 percent. Short of a majority, the Social Democrats formed an alliance with the Popular Party, which placed third in the election with almost 12 percent of the vote. The coalition held 129 of the 226 seats in Parliament.
Since then, tensions in the coalition have grown as Portugal's debt has continued to rise while its unemployment rate has soared to almost 18 percent, compared with 12 percent when Mr. Passos Coelho took office.
The government has also faced court setbacks to its austerity efforts, notably in April when Portugal's constitutional court struck down as discriminatory part of the government's plan to cut benefits for civil servants and pensioners.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); RESIGNATIONS (91%); EURO CRISIS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (89%); POLITICS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); DEBT CRISIS (89%); EXTERNAL DEBT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); SOVEREIGN RISK (70%); MONETARY UNIONS (65%); FOREIGN LENDING (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PORTUGAL (95%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (92%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



93 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; LISTENING POST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Obama Seeks New U.S. Role in Climate Debate

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When President Obama barged into a meeting of leaders from Brazil, China, India and other countries at a climate conference in Copenhagen in December 2009, he managed to extract a last-minute agreement to set a goal to limit the rise in global temperatures.
It was the high-water mark of Mr. Obama's leadership on climate change -- even if the deal was less than the Americans or Europeans wanted -- but it has been downhill ever since. Preoccupied with other problems, the president largely disappeared from the global debate.
Now he is trying to reclaim the spotlight.
Mr. Obama's climate change speech at Georgetown University last week was aimed not just at a domestic audience, but also at foreigners convinced that a balky Congress had killed America's commitment to tackling the issue. ''Make no mistake,'' he said, mopping his brow in the 90-degree heat, ''the world still looks to America to lead.'' 
Mr. Obama has done more than talk: he recently reached a deal with President Xi Jinping of China to reduce the use of hydrofluorocarbons, known as HFCs, a particularly potent greenhouse gas. In a meeting long on atmosphere, it was the only achievement that actually cleared the air.
''We felt we needed to expand the discussion,'' said Caroline Atkinson, deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs. ''We're working all the different international angles: multilaterally, bilaterally and actions on our own.''
That last point is crucial because at Georgetown, Mr. Obama reaffirmed the pledge he made in Copenhagen that the United States would reduce its emissions by about 17 percent from 2005 levels by 2020. Without mandated cuts in emissions from American power plants, which Mr. Obama announced he would address using his executive powers, there is little hope that the United States can meet that goal.
For a president who has been on the defensive over the National Security Agency's surveillance operations and his failure to close the military prison at Guantánamo Bay, Cuba, the climate change plan offers a chance to reset his image overseas. It carries echoes of what once made him so popular, tempered with the pragmatism of a leader in his second term.
Yet skepticism about America's resolve to lead runs deep after four years in which climate change took a back seat in Washington to the financial crisis, a new health care law, fiscal negotiations and an overhaul of the nation's immigration laws -- really, every other big-ticket item on Mr. Obama's agenda.
Whether the president can erase those doubts is an open question. While the United States drifted, Europe and Australia have plowed ahead with their own ambitious initiatives to reduce emissions. Critics were quick to fault Mr. Obama's speech for its lack of specifics.
''It's no longer the case where everyone expects key decisions from the United States and are disappointed when they don't come,'' said Stephan Singer, director of global energy policy at the environmental group WWF in Brussels. ''Many countries went ahead and did their own stuff, independent of the lack of action in the U.S.''
Still, Mr. Singer and other experts said a re-engaged United States would make a difference in global climate efforts, particularly with countries like China and India, the world's first and third largest emitters of carbon dioxide. Both still point to the laggard No. 2, the United States, as the main reason they should not be obliged to do more.
Mr. Obama's speech kindled hopes for a couple of reasons. The centerpiece of his plan does not require Congressional approval. And he announced that the United States would no longer finance the building of conventional coal-fired plants overseas, which would help curb emissions in developing countries.
Mr. Obama also argued that confronting climate change need not threaten economic growth: that investing in windmills, solar panels and other types of clean-energy technology could spur scientific innovation and generate jobs. That mollifies countries like India that often complain that the West lectures them about cutting emissions, even if it constricts their development and deprives them of a better lifestyle.
''The U.S. has become very sophisticated in its bilateral dealings with countries,'' said Durwood Zaelke, who runs the Institute for Governance and Sustainable Development. ''We are targeting things that India needs, like super-efficient air-conditioning.''
On a recent visit to New Delhi, Secretary of State John Kerry announced a loan-guarantee program by the United States Agency for International Development intended to generate at least $100 million in private financing to develop clean-energy technologies.
''The good news is that if we do this right, it's not going to hurt our economies,'' Mr. Kerry said. ''It actually helps them. It won't deny our children opportunity; it will actually create new ones.''
Chandra Bhushan, an Indian environmentalist, wrote in the online magazine Down to Earth that it was ''hypocritical'' for Mr. Kerry to call for India to cut emissions in its residential sector without discussing how the United States planned to do the same.
Still, Mr. Kerry got a warmer reception than his predecessor, Hillary Rodham Clinton, on her first visit to India four years earlier. After touring an energy-efficient building outside New Delhi that was meant to showcase American-Indian cooperation, she was caught off guard when an Indian minister warned the United States not to bully India into legally binding reductions of its carbon emissions.
With his long history as a champion of climate change legislation, Mr. Kerry could serve as a not-so-secret weapon for Mr. Obama. At his Senate confirmation hearing, Mr. Kerry said he intended to put climate change at the heart of his agenda at the State Department.
Mr. Kerry was at the table last month in Rancho Mirage, Calif., when Mr. Obama made his deal on HFCs with Mr. Xi. The administration is emphasizing these agreements, in part to work around the hurdles of negotiating a global deal to reduce emissions through the United Nations, an effort that has dragged on for years.
For all Mr. Obama's efforts to forge side deals and clean-energy partnerships, his reaffirmation of his goal to reduce emissions 17 percent ties him to the United Nations process. Attention now turns to the next big climate conference, which is expected to be held in France in 2015. The question is what role the United States will play.
''There are still fears that the political issues in the U.S. could pull down the outcome in the 2015 meeting,'' said Jennifer Morgan, director of climate and energy programs at the World Resources Institute. ''But this breath of fresh air from the president could revive things.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: It was warm in Washington on June 25 when President Obama spoke about climate change at Georgetown University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); IMMIGRATION LAW (68%); POWER PLANTS (66%); PRISONS (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); XI JINPING (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); INDIA (92%); BRAZIL (92%); EUROPE (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



94 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: Trip Treats Africa as Land Of Promise, Troubles Aside

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
DAR ES SALAAM, Tanzania -- The Africa trip that President Obama could have taken would have looked very different.
He could have stopped in Kenya to deliver tough words to its president, who has been charged with crimes against humanity by the International Criminal Court, accused of orchestrating politically motivated death squads.
He could have gone to Nigeria to address both the Islamist militancy shaking the region and the human rights abuses committed by American partners in the effort to contain it. And he could have traveled to the Democratic Republic of Congo to demonstrate his commitment to ending the violence that has plagued it for so many years. 
Instead, Mr. Obama chose an itinerary that was largely safe and heartwarming. His three-nation tour of sub-Saharan Africa, which ended Tuesday, avoided hot spots in favor of places where development is succeeding, investment is increasing and democracy is, in at least two of the cases, well established.
Aides traveling with the president said the trip, Mr. Obama's first extended visit as president, had been designed to accentuate the positive on a continent too often dismissed as beyond help. The destinations were chosen, they said, to provide a forum for him to talk about a new model for helping Africa, one that emphasizes partnership and investment over aid and dependency.
''The entire purpose of the trip is to lift up our efforts on the affirmative opportunities in Africa -- trade, investment, democratization and impactful development programs,'' said Benjamin J. Rhodes, a deputy national security adviser and one of Mr. Obama's top foreign-policy advisers.
A focus on terrorism and ethnic violence would have done little more, he said, than ''reinforce negative stereotypes of a continent in permanent crisis.''
Some of Mr. Obama's optimism on the trip was overshadowed by anxiety over the health of Nelson Mandela, the 94-year-old former South African leader, who remained in critical condition in a Pretoria hospital. Mr. Obama spent much of his time in Africa expressing his concern about Mr. Mandela and competing for the news media's attention.
Nevertheless, Mr. Obama repeatedly delivered a hopeful message. In Senegal, he spoke excitedly about new technologies that enable farmers to quadruple their yields. In Tanzania, he announced programs to provide reliable electricity to those still in the dark and prevent poachers from trafficking in wildlife. And in Cape Town, he told students that they represented the future of a continent on the move.
''From microfinance projects in Kampala to stock traders in Lagos to cellphone entrepreneurs in Nairobi, there is an energy here that can't be denied -- Africa rising,'' Mr. Obama said.
Mr. Obama and his advisers say what Africa needs now are not more lectures from an American president or declarations about the dangers of war and other violence. What Africans need, they say, is a president willing to put the weight of his office behind the less attention-grabbing programs that will help secure the food supply, improve education, clear the way for trade and promote efficient government.
That contention has fueled a debate about what Africa needs more: a president who directly confronts the challenges of a continent, warts and all, or one who sidesteps the negative on his visit to try to inspire a better future.
Critics of Mr. Obama, particularly in Africa, say he missed opportunities to use his influence as America's first African-American president to shine light on the misdeeds of nations and leaders who are holding back progress. They say Mr. Obama passed up a chance to deliver a speech in Kenya, his father's homeland, that could have underlined America's disappointment in the actions of Uhuru Kenyatta, its president, and other African strongmen.
Instead of traveling to South Africa, where Mr. Obama and his family took the expected tour of Mr. Mandela's jail cell on Robben Island, critics say, he could have gone to Malawi or Liberia, two nations with female presidents, to highlight the successes and challenges of women on the continent.
Critics also point to Nigeria, the most populous nation in sub-Saharan Africa, as an obvious choice for a president interested in shaping the continent's future.
''It seems to me a real oversight not to visit Nigeria,'' said Mwangi S. Kimenyi, a Kenyan scholar at the Brookings Institution. ''I would have thought that whoever helped plan for the trip or for the president, in a strategic way, would have included Nigeria. It's a very important country, and it's likely going to overtake some other economies in Africa.''
Mr. Obama's advisers pointed out last week that security concerns in some of these places made travel there exceedingly difficult. And they insist that the president did not altogether avoid the challenges that Africa faces. In the Cape Town speech, he noted that ''from Congo to Sudan, conflicts fester -- robbing men, women and children of the lives that they deserve.''
More broadly, Mr. Obama's advisers argue that his critics have an outdated view of how America can best provide leadership.
Mr. Rhodes recalled the speech that Mr. Obama gave last month at Berlin's Brandenburg Gate, where a wall once stood as a concrete symbol of oppression. In part, the wall came down because of high-minded speeches, Mr. Rhodes said. But now, he argued, the challenge is different.
The president repeatedly described opportunities for economic partnership as a victory for both Africa and America.
As he finished his trip, Mr. Obama visited a once-idle power plant in Dar es Salaam that a partnership between American business and the Tanzanian government had brought back to life. Mr. Obama's administration has agreed to spend $7 billion -- and recruited $9 billion from businesses -- in an effort to double access to electricity in Africa.
In a more whimsical display of solutions, Mr. Obama tried out a soccer ball that stores kinetic activity in a battery during use and later provides electricity to power a lamp or charge a cellphone.
''I don't want to get too technical, but I thought it was pretty cool,'' he said, at one point bouncing the ball on his head. ''You can imagine this in villages all across the continent.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Before leaving Africa, President Obama bounced a battery- charging ball off his head Tuesday outside a power plant in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON REED/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); CRIMES AGAINST HUMANITY (72%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (72%); TERRORISM (70%); MICROFINANCE (60%); ANIMAL POACHING & TRAFFICKING (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (90%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (78%); NAIROBI, KENYA (78%); LAGOS, NIGERIA (77%) AFRICA (96%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (94%); KENYA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%); SENEGAL (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



95 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Deadline Splits an Agency On Trading Rules Abroad

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Wall Street lobbyists, seeking to delay a July 12 deadline for rules that would rein in lucrative trading by banks overseas, pressed their case before a top Washington regulator last week.
The regulator, Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, had an unusual response. He summoned into his office a pregnant employee whose due date happened to be July 12.
''Tell everyone about that day,'' Mr. Gensler instructed the employee, according to people who attended the meeting.
Pointing to her abdomen, she grinned and replied, ''No delay.'' 
While the message to bankers was clear, some of Mr. Gensler's colleagues are still fighting his plan to extend the agency's reach beyond American borders, an issue that took shape in the 2008 financial crisis.
Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak, recently called the deadline ''arbitrary.'' And with the agency's Republicans pushing for a delay, Mr. Wetjen holds the swing vote.
The dispute underscores a larger tension gripping the trading commission. As the deadline nears, the plan to regulate trading by American banks in London and beyond has set off a rare breakdown of decorum at an agency long known for its cordial style and unanimous votes.
Mr. Wetjen, for example, irked some colleagues last week when, without warning them, he delivered a speech to bankers in London that called for a new ''interim'' plan, according to an e-mail reviewed by The New York Times.
And when Mr. Gensler refused to budge on the July 12 deadline -- he informed co-workers that he was departing for vacation a day later, and would have limited access to e-mail -- one Republican commissioner, Jill Sommers, declared, ''no one has ever accused Gary Gensler of being reasonable.''
Even in a town known for its partisan outbursts and vitriolic finger-pointing, the tension at the agency was striking to political insiders. ''It's like the seventh grade but without the lollipops,'' said a Congressional aide.
Some officials, who spoke on the condition that they not be named to freely discuss private talks, said they were still optimistic a deal would be struck next week. Until then, commissioners are planning to negotiate through the holiday weekend.
The time pressure reflects the importance of the cross-border plan. During the financial crisis, trades by the American International Group in London nearly brought the insurance giant and its Wall Street clients to their knees. JPMorgan Chase's $6 billion trading loss at a London unit last year further highlighted how risk-taking can come crashing back to American shores.
The blowups spurred a federal crackdown on the $700 trillion marketplace for financial contracts known as derivatives -- contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond or an interest rate.
Even today, banks continue to book much of their derivatives trading overseas. Wall Street's biggest banks, regulators say, have more than 2,000 legal entities spread internationally.
''Without effective cross-border oversight, there is no derivatives reform,'' said Marcus Stanley, the policy director of Americans for Financial Reform, which supports the new rules. ''It's like barring the front door and leaving the back door open.'' Dennis Kelleher, who runs Better Markets, called it a ''defining'' moment for the agency.
The agency's cross-border guidance stems from the Dodd-Frank Act. Under that 2010 law, the trading commission is supposed to extend new derivatives reforms -- including tougher capital standards -- if overseas trading has ''a direct and significant connection with activities'' of the United States.
The agency is now drafting guidelines for how the law applies to everyday trading, mindful that certain requirements could drive trading business away from United States banks. Under the plan, it is likely that firms like Goldman Sachs International and Citigroup's London branch will face the new scrutiny, though Mr. Gensler's agency will ultimately defer to European regulators if they adopt rules similar to Dodd-Frank.
The agency also softened an earlier draft of its guidelines. In recent weeks, officials briefed on the negotiations said, Mr. Gensler has offered to narrow the definition of what sort of firm is considered a ''U.S. person'' that would be covered under the regulation while expanding an exemption for smaller banks overseas. In another concession, the officials said, the agency plans to exempt certain entities of giant foreign banks so long as each entity does not trade in more than $8 billion in derivatives a year.
Mr. Gensler also circulated a plan to commissioners this week that would phase in the cross-border requirements over time.
Some lawmakers are urging the agency to tighten its rules. On Wednesday, a group of Democratic senators, including Carl Levin of Michigan and Jeff Merkley of Oregon, are expected to raise concerns about loopholes.
Wall Street, in contrast, is bracing for July 12, when an order exempting overseas trading from federal scrutiny expires. If the agency fails to produce new guidelines but declines to extend the deadline, some banks fear widespread confusion will ensue.
''We find it very problematic that, this close to a critical date, there is complete uncertainty as to how the agency will proceed,'' said Annette L. Nazareth, a partner at the law firm Davis Polk.
History would suggest that a deal will materialize. Of 56 Dodd-Frank rules approved at the agency, two-thirds won support from all five commissioners.
But this deal is different. For one, it is likely to be the last policy to come from the current configuration of the trading commission. Ms. Sommers recently said her last day would be Monday. And Mr. Gensler, whose term expires in December, has turned down the White House's offer to return to the agency.
With time running low, Mr. Gensler has refused to extend the July 12 deadline. By his reckoning, the deadline comes three years after the passage of Dodd-Frank and a year after a draft version of the guidance.
''Congress and President Obama asked us to do this thing three years ago,'' said Bart Chilton, a Democratic commissioner at the agency who supports Mr. Gensler's effort. ''Come on already.''
Mr. Wetjen, the newest member of the agency, has been a harder sell. He has not ruled out meeting the July 12 deadline, but has publicly raised concerns about rushing and has yet to produce for Mr. Gensler a comprehensive list of suggestions. ''I don't make any apologies for being deliberative and trying to sort out the best policy,'' he said.
A spokesman for Mr. Gensler declined to comment.
While Mr. Wetjen has voted with Mr. Gensler on every proposal before the agency, unlike other commissioners, he has also softened some rules. In the cross-border plan, according to officials briefed on the matter, he urged Mr. Gensler to allow for overseas branches of banks like Citigroup to be overseen by foreign regulators with similar rules.
A former aide to Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, Mr. Wetjen has challenged the notion that he is friendly to Wall Street. At a recent meeting with one such group, Mr. Wetjen began by jokingly saying, ''I suppose you're here to tell me that I'm blowing a hole in financial reform.''
His relationship with Mr. Gensler is more complicated. The two are friendly in person, and are said to respect one another.
But Mr. Gensler, some officials say, has expressed dismay with Mr. Wetjen when he proposes certain changes to a rule. And in a moment of frustration with Mr. Gensler's aggressive bargaining style, one person said, Mr. Wetjen blurted to a colleague that he should tell Mr. Gensler where to go, using an expletive. (Mr. Wetjen said that he did not ''recall saying that.'')
Their roles at the agency seem unlikely. Mr. Wetjen is a soft-spoken lawyer from Iowa; Mr. Gensler, a former Goldman Sachs banker whose job was to oversee derivatives trading.
In the meeting last week, Mr. Gensler emphasized his Wall Street ties. ''Guys, I was one of you,'' he said, according to a person at the meeting. ''But you're asking us to repeal Dodd-Frank. We're not going to do this.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is resisting efforts to delay a regulation deadline. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EVAN VUCCI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
Gary Gensler in his Washington office. Mr. Gensler has said he is leaving on vacation the day after a July 12 deadline to regulate trading by banks overseas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER W. STEVENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Mark Wetjen, a commissioner of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. (PHOTOGRAPH BY C.F.T.C.) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (79%); FUTURES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); INSURANCE (72%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (61%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (91%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (61%); 8685 (TSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



96 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: 140 Characters Spell Charges and Jail

BYLINE: By ROBBIE BROWN

 BODY:
One night last summer, Jarvis Britton of Birmingham, Ala., sent out a series of Twitter messages that he later described as ''stupid'' jokes. Prosecutors did not think they were funny.
''Let's Go Kill the President,'' wrote Mr. Britton, who is 26 and unemployed. ''I think we could get the president with cyanide! #MakeItSlow.''
When Secret Service agents showed up at his house to question him, Mr. Britton said he had been drunk and apologized. But in September, he posted another round of death threats against President Obama and was arrested. Last month, he was sentenced to a year in federal prison. 
''Because of the repeated threats on Twitter, we took him seriously,'' said Joyce White Vance, the United States attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, who prosecuted the case.
Mr. Britton was the latest in a recent series of social media users to overstep the boundary of legal free speech and face jail time for threatening the president's life. Last month, a Twitter user in Charlotte, N.C., Donte Jamar Sims, was sentenced to six months for posting ''Ima assassinate president Obama this evening!'' among other threats. And Daniel Temple of Columbus, Ohio, is awaiting sentencing for saying on Twitter that he was ''coming to kill'' the president and ''killing you soon.''
A Secret Service spokesman, Brian Leary, said social media are increasingly useful for finding and tracking threats. In 2011, the agency created the @SecretService account, to let users report suspicious tweets. And a group of agents, called the Internet Threat Desk, focuses specifically on threats posted online.
''We get information from many sources. Social media is one of them,'' Mr. Leary said. ''We have the right and certainly the obligation to determine a person's intent.''
The Secret Service investigates an average of 10 threats against Mr. Obama each day, roughly the same number as during George W. Bush's administration, said Ronald Kessler, author of ''In the President's Secret Service,'' a book about the agency. The agency would not confirm that number and does not say how many threats it receives and turns over to the Justice Department to prosecute.
But privacy advocates worry that remarks intended for friends and followers may be misinterpreted in a courtroom or that carelessly typed posts will be seen in the same light as letters mailed to the White House.
''Twitter makes it easier for people to say things they don't mean seriously and be broadcast far and wide,'' said Hanni Fakhoury, a staff lawyer for the Electronic Frontier Foundation, a privacy advocacy group. ''If I say online that I want to kill Obama, it's far harder to assess how serious I am than if I'm standing across the street from the White House and I have a gun.''
Federal law makes it punishable by up to five years in prison and a $250,000 fine to threaten the life of the president or anyone else under Secret Service protection. The law does not require proof that the suspect intended to carry out the plot.
Ms. Vance, the prosecutor, said the case against Mr. Britton was clear cut: He had posted two rounds of threatening messages and ignored the Secret Service's initial warning.
Mr. Britton, who is in prison, could not be reached. But his lawyer, Rick Burgess, said Mr. Britton had no actual plans to harm the president. Court records show that Mr. Britton has received medication for schizophrenia.
A spokeswoman for Twitter did not reply to requests for comment about whether the company removes death threats from the site or provides the Secret Service personal information about users accused of threatening the president. Court records show that in Mr. Britton's case, a woman saw his messages, alerted the Secret Service and agents found his home address.
The Justice Department does not say how many threats against the president have been prosecuted, according to a spokesman.
Last year, a college student in Florida said he was joking when he posted on Facebook about killing the president during a trip to the University of Miami. ''Who wants to help me assassinate Obummer while hes at UM this week?'' the student, Joaquin Serrapio, asked. He later was charged with threatening to harm the president, a felony. He pleaded guilty and received three years' probation.
In another case, Walter Bagdasarian of San Diego said he was drunk when he posted a rant on his blog saying the president ''will have a 50 cal in the head soon,'' referring to a .50-caliber rifle bullet. In federal court, he won an appeal by arguing that his comment stopped short of being a threat.
The cases based on such threats should be a reminder that there are limits on the First Amendment's protection of free speech, said Mr. Burgess, the defense lawyer. ''Whether you meant it as a joke or not,'' he said, ''a Twitter message takes on a whole new meaning when it's read in a courtroom.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A profile picture of Jarvis Britton, 26, who was sentenced to a year in federal prison after posting death threats against President Obama on Twitter. The Secret Service tracks threats on social media. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); SENTENCING (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); ASSASSINATION (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); WRITERS (72%); PRISONS (69%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (67%)

COMPANY: TWITTER INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (88%); CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (71%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (71%) ALABAMA, USA (90%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



97 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 392 words

HEADLINE: A Chance for Pro Sports to Help on Health Care

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The Obama administration thought it had a smart way to publicize the benefits of health care reform: get some professional athletes to help spread the word.
Millions of uninsured Americans, after all, don't know that they will be able to sign up for free or subsidized health insurance beginning Oct. 1, and they may be more likely to pay attention to athletes explaining it than to politicians. In 2007, the Boston Red Sox helped make a similar health insurance program in Massachusetts a success. 
But when Republicans found out the administration planned to approach the major sports leagues, they decided to commit interference. ''Given the divisiveness and persistent unpopularity of this bill, it is difficult to understand why an organization like yours would risk damaging its inclusive and apolitical brand by lending its name to its promotion,'' the top two Republican senators, Mitch McConnell and John Cornyn, wrote in a letter to the National Football League last week. ''It is difficult for us to remember another occasion when major sports league took public sides in such a highly polarized public debate.'' Similar letters were sent to the overseers of professional hockey, basketball, baseball, and golf, as well as Nascar.
The authors of this letter are trying to convince the sports leagues that there's still a ''debate'' over a ''bill'' that was passed and signed into law more than three years ago, one that has already started to improve the health of families and the economy. Republicans obviously hate the law and have done everything possible to stymie it, refusing to set up insurance exchanges or spend money for its operations (including publicity). Now they are trying to hinder reform by preventing people from even learning about it, citing the divisiveness they caused.
It would be nice to imagine that sports officials would ignore this entirely self-serving pressure tactic. Given its struggle with on-field injuries, for example, the N.F.L. would do well to help 25 million people receive the health insurance to which they are now legally entitled.
So far, though, it seems the intimidation is working. The N.F.L. said last week it has no plans to help out, and the other leagues have yet to sign on. Apparently, when confronted with bullying and misinformation, a bunch of professional tough guys are nothing but pushovers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION (92%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); BASEBALL (78%); LEGISLATION (74%); FAMILY (73%); BASKETBALL (70%); WRITERS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON RED SOX (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN CORNYN (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



98 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: An Adoptee, Between Two Worlds

 BODY:
To the Editor:
My heart goes out to the South Korean adoptee you portrayed in ''An Adoptee Returns, and Changes Follow'' (The Saturday Profile, June 29). The adoptee, Jane Jeong Trenka, certainly deserved better. 
But as the parent of a young man adopted from South Korea when he was 5 months old, I take exception to the negative depictions of adoption that the media love to embrace.
Most international adoptees live in well-adjusted, loving families and become integrated members of their communities. I am not insensitive to the potential identity issues for my son, nor am I insensitive to the pain that being seen as a ''baby exporter'' has caused the South Korean people. I commend those who are working to change that.
However, it is important to recognize that when circumstances have led birth parents to make the painful decision to place their child for adoption, it usually does not end in a Hollywood-style tragedy.
WILLIAM LEESON Santa Fe, N.M., June 29, 2013
To the Editor:
I am a white American. My husband is a South Korean citizen. We adopted our daughter in Korea in 1998, and we lived mostly in Korea until one year ago.
I have to wonder what Americans would say if the United States enacted a law that required birth mothers to live with their babies for a week before they were allowed to give them up for adoption.
I would argue that making these young Korean women feel even worse than they already do about relinquishing their babies is not even a part of the solution to Korea's overseas adoption problem.
Open and honest discussions about birth control in middle and high schools would go a long way toward reducing unwanted pregnancies. The life of the young Korean women who choose to keep their children is almost unbearable. Korean culture simply does not welcome out-of-wedlock children at this point.
It will take the full and active participation of Korean churches and schools to change the way Koreans think about adoption. The government's role should be to facilitate this new way of thinking, not coerce vulnerable young women to keep their children in order to change statistics.
ROBIN BULMAN Portland, Ore., June 29, 2013
To the Editor:
South Korea's decision to restrict international adoption out of national pride, and in the gamble that Koreans will then adopt rather than allow children to languish in state care, amounts to a hostage situation. Such strong-arm, immoral tactics do not take the well-being of children into consideration, and they violate a child's basic human right to grow up in a family.
Although Korea may indeed be reaching a point in its economic development in which it is able to care for its own children, many other countries are not even close to that point. Adoptees with identity crises should not be used as yet another justification to limit international adoption.
KATIE JAY Hollywood, Fla., July 1, 2013
The writer is an adoptive mother and a blogger about international adoption.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ANTHONY RUSSO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ADOPTION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); WOMEN (86%); ADOPTION LAW (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); HOSTAGE TAKING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (69%) NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



99 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: To Basel's Defenses, Fed Adds A To-Do List

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS. 
Eduardo Porter, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is away.

 BODY:
After overlooking so many excesses before the financial crisis, bank regulators have spent the last five years trying to regain credibility.
The public got an important opportunity to assess their progress on Tuesday when the Federal Reserve approved a sweeping new set of rules intended to reduce the riskiness of banks' activities and make them more resilient to losses. While an important step, the rules, which stem from an international agreement known as Basel III, go only so far, something the Fed seemed to go out of its way to acknowledge.
It is easy to get lost in the weeds of Basel. Like most financial regulations these days, the new rules are dizzyingly complex. Adding to the confusion, they will exist alongside the Dodd-Frank overhaul of the financial system, passed by Congress in 2010. 
But boiled down, the Basel III measures approved on Tuesday focus on strengthening capital, the cushion that banks must maintain against losses. It's hard to overstate the importance of capital. The banks that had the least going into the 2008 crisis, like Citigroup, were the most problematic.
The cornerstone of the new rules is that banks must maintain high-quality capital, like stock or retained earnings, equal to 7 percent of their loans and assets. The biggest banks may be required to hold more than 9 percent. According to industry estimates, the six largest American banks have met or are close to meeting the 9 percent level. After the crisis, the banks were required to increase capital substantially.
The Basel approach to capital has drawn criticism, however.
For one thing, it uses something called risk weighting, which means less capital can be held against loans or bonds that are perceived to be less risky even though they may end up producing higher-than-expected losses. Basel may also give banks too much leeway when calculating how much capital they have to hold, because the banks get to apply the risk weightings. Finally, for some, Basel's capital ratios are simply too low to protect a bank from a real shock.
''They are certainly going in the right direction, but there's still more to be done,'' said Sheila C. Bair, a former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, another bank regulator.
The approval of the Basel III rules, which were subject to intense lobbying from the banking industry, comes at a crucial moment in the debate over bank size. Some lawmakers and consumer advocates say they think neither the new Basel rules nor changes in the 2010 Dodd-Frank overhaul do enough to protect taxpayers in a crisis. They argue that even with the new measures, the authorities may still bail out failing banks if they feel it is necessary to protect the wider financial system. This is called the too-big-to-fail problem.
It appears that the Fed is not yet satisfied that this threat has been removed.
Daniel K. Tarullo, the Fed governor who oversees regulation, made it clear on Tuesday that the largest banks need to be subject to some stricter measures, which he outlined. One proposal is for higher capital at banks that rely heavily on short-term borrowing, which can evaporate during crises, causing a cash squeeze. Another requires the biggest global firms to hold even more capital to cover the risks of their size and complexity.
These initiatives could set off another wave of resistance from the financial industry. Still, Mr. Tarullo suggested the stakes were high. He said that the Fed's mission would be complete only after the extra measures were in place.
''This regime would conform to the mandate given us by Congress to apply to large banking organizations more exacting regulatory and supervisory requirements that become progressively stricter as the systemic importance of a firm increases,'' Mr. Tarullo said in a statement.
Another of these added measures could offset the problems caused by Basel's risk weighting. It concerns something called a leverage ratio. This approach requires banks to hold capital at a fixed percentage of total assets without taking into account risk weightings. In other words, a leverage ratio effectively treats government bonds the same as, say, credit card loans. Regulators are close to setting a leverage ratio in excess of the Basel minimum, which is 3 percent of assets.
Ms. Bair thinks it makes sense to raise it to 8 percent.
While the Fed is taking a tougher stance in some areas, it opted for a softer approach to mortgages, even though bad home loans played a central role in the crisis.
The concessions it made are arcane but could be significant. The Fed's first draft of the Basel rules suggested that banks hold more capital for mortgages with features that might make them more likely to default. One crucial metric is loan to value, which measures a mortgage as a percentage of the house price. Loans in excess of 90 percent of the house's value are theoretically riskier than ones at 75 percent, which have a bigger down payment. Using risk weighting conservatively, the Fed initially proposed increasing capital as the loan-to-value ratio rose.
But that approach was taken out of the final rules. One reason the Fed pulled back was that the mortgage industry pointed out that some loans with riskier features performed well in the crisis. Also, rules unrelated to Basel III prevent lenders from writing loans that the borrower might find it hard to repay.
Some consumer advocates supported the Fed's move.
''There is ample evidence that lenders can extend mortgage credit to low-wealth households in a safe and sound manner, even with low-down-payment mortgages,'' Roberto G. Quercia, a professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, said. ''It is good to see a regulator recognizing the risks of overcorrection.''
Still, other banking specialists say they think that high loan-to-value ratios were partly responsible for the flood of foreclosures during the crisis and that the Fed should have singled out such loans in its new Basel rules.
''It is hard to understand how regulators could ignore loan-to-value ratios in risk-weighting mortgages,'' Ms. Bair said. ''They clearly influence the likelihood and size of mortgage losses.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Fed's Board of Governors met Tuesday in Washington. It approved new rules that govern how much capital banks must hold. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (89%); US DODD FRANK ACT (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROVALS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%)

PERSON: SHEILA BAIR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



100 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Tarrytown, N.Y., Charms Residents and Retailers

BYLINE: By CAITLIN KELLY

 BODY:
TARRYTOWN, N.Y. -- Maybe it's the regular shows at the 128-year-old music hall. Or the 38-minute express rail commute to Grand Central Terminal. Perhaps it's the attractive new housing developments on the Hudson River or being named one of the nation's 10 prettiest towns last year by Forbes magazine.
Whatever the reason, Tarrytown -- a diverse suburban New York village of 11,354 people -- is having a moment. With only four stores available for rent, it is humming with new businesses, including a soon-to-open sushi restaurant, a home goods store and a recently opened toy store using a space where the previous tenants included a flooring retailer and a bike shop.
Both of those businesses are still thriving in Tarrytown, in new locations. 
''The town has gone from antiques stores to boutiques and restaurants,'' said John Sardy, a 30-year resident and executive director of the local chamber of commerce.
Mr. Sardy, who also sells residential real estate, said Tarrytown's appeal was unsurprising. ''People want the charming village,'' with the easy commute into Manhattan that allows residents to combine city life and small-town ease, he said.
Amid the miniboom, though, ''a lot of people are still struggling,'' said Drew Fixell, Tarrytown's mayor for the last nine years. There are really three Tarrytowns, ''the new Tarrytown, the old Tarrytown and an immigrant community,'' Mr. Fixell said. ''We've become more Latino in the past 10 years. I have plenty of Latino neighbors.''
Unlike some wealthier Westchester towns, Tarrytown has long offered a more affordable mixture of co-ops, condominiums, single- and multiple-family homes and rentals. That resulting economic diversity is itself a draw for some merchants.
''I'm so glad I chose Tarrytown,'' said Colleen Goudie, co-owner of ShayLuLa, a two-year-old, 700-square-foot store selling jewelry and women's accessories. Ms. Goudie said she had been ready to sign a lease in Bronxville, a more upscale Westchester County community, but now appreciated a local clientele hungry for a new shop.
''I didn't know Tarrytown could handle luxury,'' said Ms. Goudie, who worked for many years in the luxury goods industry. ''When I was growing up in Nanuet across the river, Tarrytown was blue collar. I hadn't been over here in 15 years, but I could see right away the town's potential.''
Her choice of location ''has been better than my wildest expectations,'' with shoppers now even coming from Bronxville, a 30-minute drive. ''I did shift my buying pattern to more affordable items. We have things for $50 to custom diamonds up to $4,000.''
Ms. Goudie, who would not disclose her rental costs, has a five-year lease with an option to renew for five years. She said she hoped to buy property in town, both commercial and residential.
Mike Love, co-owner with his wife, Alicia, of Coffee Labs Roasters, a cafe and coffee roasting shop, was a pioneer, opening in 2003 with a 10-year lease and a five-year extension. ''We chose Tarrytown because one of our friends lived here. It had little niche stores, cool streetlights down Main Street.'' Of all the river towns -- Dobbs Ferry, Hastings-on-Hudson, Irvington and Ossining -- ''this was the most lively,'' he said.
''No one was here but us. I used to watch people going into the 7-Eleven to get their coffee. It took us awhile to become known.''
Their initial rent for 2,000 square feet was $2,600 a month and is now $4,000, plus town property taxes of $9,000 to $10,000 a year, he said.
Today, their customers range from hedge fund traders to day laborers. ''Coffee is a luxury that everyone can attain,'' he said. The mix of his clients and close retail neighbors -- a florist, pet store, restaurants and a coin-operated laundry -- are positive aspects, he said. ''Tarrytown is not Scarsdale, Katonah or Armonk,'' he said, referring to three of the county's most affluent areas.
Edward J. Hart, who owns several commercial buildings in town, says Tarrytown is ''still very much in transition.''
''Since 2008, it's been a slow evolution,'' he said, referring to the period after the economic downturn in 2007 and 2008, when several of his tenants, including a yogurt shop that spent heavily to renovate its space, struggled and went out of business. Another yogurt shop, which also sells crepes, replaced it and has done well, he said. ''They've been tremendously successful thanks to that combination of two things.''
Mr. Hart, who has commercial properties in other area towns like New Rochelle, Eastchester and Mount Vernon, and lives on Long Island, has a broader perspective of the recent commercial changes. ''I personally think Tarrytown is unique. Right now there's an infusion of younger people who have discovered its older homes. I sense an uptick right now.''
Rents for his properties run to the mid-20s per square foot, he said, after hitting a low in the downturn of high teens to low 20s.
One space that remained vacant for two years, since the closing of Tarrytown Gourmet, a 16-year tenant, is soon to reopen with a tenant who has signed a 20-year lease, said Edward Coco, who has owned the building since 1990. The space is 13,000 square feet, and Mr. Coco would say only that he was charging more than $20,000 a month in rent, plus a share of insurance, operating costs and property tax.
Mr. Coco defended the two-year wait. ''I'm waiting for the kind of tenant I'm comfortable with.'' he said. ''I have someone now who will rent the whole building and who will be good for Tarrytown and good for me.'' The new tenant will also be spending heavily to renovate the space, he said. He would not reveal his client's name, but said it was part of a regional chain.
For Ilda Sampaio, a co-owner of Salon 2000, a block away from Mr. Coco's property, running a business in Tarrytown has been a mixed blessing. Her hair salon now has four direct competitors, in a town where the main street has about that many stoplights. She moved here in 1987 from Portugal and, in 2005, signed a 10-year lease on her 2,500-square-foot space.
It's not easy to stay afloat, she said. ''A lot of businesses can't keep up. The minimum rent is already high. A lot of clients tell me they're amazed by how things keep changing.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 8, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with an article on the Square Feet pages on Wednesday, about thriving retail businesses in Tarrytown, N.Y., misstated part of the name of a cafe and coffee roasting shop owned by Mike and Alicia Love. As the article correctly noted, it is Coffee Labs Roasters, not Coffee Lab Roasters.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Colleen Goudie, left, in her store, ShayLuLa, on Main Street, says business exceeded her ''wildest expectations.''
 Mike and Alicia Love, owners of Coffee Lab Roasters, were pioneers, opening in 2003. ''Coffee is a luxury that everyone can attain,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); CITIES (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); LUXURY GOODS (74%); RELOCATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); CITY LIFE (71%); FLOOR COVERING STORES (70%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (70%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TOYS & GAMES (69%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (68%); FLOORING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



101 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: The New Economics of Part-Time Employment

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Affordable Care Act will make part-time employment more attractive to many workers, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
Even without employer penalties, part-time work will become more common next year and more expensive for taxpayers.
Much attention has been paid to people without health insurance, but for the purposes of understanding the entire labor market we must acknowledge that the uninsured are a minority of the population. Most of the work force has health insurance through full-time employment or through a spouse's employment. 
Part-time employment rarely includes health benefits. The lack of health benefits and the lower pay for part-time work have traditionally discouraged people from taking part-time jobs rather than full-time jobs, but both of those attributes of part-time jobs are about to change.
Beginning next year, the Affordable Care Act will subsidize the health expenses for non-elderly families with income of 100 to 400 percent of the federal poverty line (about half of the non-elderly population has incomes in that range), but only if they are not offered health insurance through an employer. In other words, the new subsidies will not be available to most of those who do full-time work.
Because part-time workers will be eligible for the subsidies except in the rare instances in which their employer covers them, full-time work will no longer carry the advantage of access to health insurance. That by itself will encourage more people to seek part-time work.

Moreover, the subsidies will many times be generous enough that workers can make as much money in a part-time position as in a full-time one. The table below illustrates what may happen.
The left column of the table shows the economics of a full-time position (40 hours a week). Between employer health insurance premiums and the employee paycheck, this position costs the employer $56,000 a year, or about $28 an hour. The full-time employee's pay after his portion of health insurance premiums are withheld is $42,000.
Although covered by health insurance, the employee and his family incur $3,000 in additional health costs because of health insurance deductibles, co-payments and so on ($3,000 is typical for a family of four with a comprehensive health plan). The employee also has work expenses for commuting and child care, which I assume to be $100 a week when working full time.
The part-time column of the table shows a part-time position with the same employer cost per hour: $28. Because the position is part-time (only 30 hours a week), the annual employer cost is $42,000. All of the $42,000 consists of cash compensation for the employee, because the part-time position does not include health insurance.
The part-time employee has to pay for his own health insurance, but the new law limits his premiums to $2,149 (the new law pays the other $12,658 from the United States Treasury) and limits his out-of-pocket health costs to $2,193 (the new law pays the other $2,907; by design the new law increases deductibles and co-payments but uses subsidies to offset those increases for low- and middle-income families).
After work expenses ($75 a week for part-time employment) and health expenses, the part-time position pays $33,908: almost exactly the same as the full-time position's $34,000.
By taking a part-time position, the employee can have comprehensive health insurance coverage and make almost the same money as he would in a full-time position. Thus the two traditional deterrents to part-time employment are disappearing. In effect, the new subsidies totaling almost $16,000 offset, from the point of view of employers and their employees, the loss of production that occurs from working 30 hours a week rather than 40.
None of the above relates to the employer penalties associated with the new law, because the employers covered by my example avoid the penalty by continuing to offer comprehensive insurance to full-time employees. Those penalties create yet another set of reasons that part-time employment will become more common next year.
Shifts from full-time to part-time work will be remarkably more attractive for employers and employees than they used to be, and taxpayers will be picking up the tab.

        
What Job-Sharing Brings
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance
        
Putting Off the Employer Mandate
        
Confusing the Public on the Affordable Care Act

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (92%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (76%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (76%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (76%); AGING TRENDS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (67%); AGING (67%); SENIOR CITIZENS (67%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Labor and Jobs; Part-Time Employment; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



102 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Indian Politicians Scramble for Electoral Benefits From Flood Relief Work

BYLINE: ADITYA SINHA


HIGHLIGHT: Mr. Modi was quick to arrive in Uttarakhand to yet again show leadership, courage and administrative acumen while Mr. Gandhi showed up only days later. 

 BODY:
NEW DELHI - A week after floods began to ravage the Himalayan state of Uttarakhand on June 16, Narendra Modi, the chief minister of the western Indian state of Gujarat, an ambitious and controversial politician seeking to topple the Congress Party-led United Progressive Alliance coalition in New Delhi, visited the disaster-struck state with a team of bureaucrats experienced in disaster management to help evacuate stranded pilgrims. A newspaper reported that he helped rescue 15,000 Gujarati pilgrims. A friend quipped, "How could he get so many on a single plane?"
Even if it's not clear exactly how many pilgrims were transported thanks to Mr. Modi, we know for certain that at least one person was definitely evacuated in a hurry: Rahul Gandhi, the Congress Party's vice president, who was having a birthday party somewhere in Europe when the Uttarakhand floods struck. 
What was the hurry? The next parliamentary elections that will determine who runs the next national government can be held anytime until May 2014. Some argue that the parties propping up the current administration, like the left-of-center Samajwadi Party in the northern state of Uttar Pradesh, may contrive to withdraw support and let the government fall, timing it for national elections this winter. However, that likelihood has decreased after the United Progressive Alliance supported its former ally in the southern Indian state of Tamil Nadu, the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, in getting its chief's daughter, Kanimozhi Karunanidhi, elected to Parliament's upper house on June 27.
What is certain is that India is gripped with political uncertainty. And in that uncertainty, Mr. Modi has been proactive because his Bharatiya Janata Party (B.J.P.) does not have a political program to take into the national elections.
The B.J.P. used to propagate its conservative ideology of "cultural nationalism," but the mere mention of that ideology now sounds sinister given Mr. Modi's reputation of religious intolerance - the United States has refused to give him a visa after the anti-Muslim violence in Gujarat in 2002, and the Janata Dal (United) Party of Bihar, which has a significant Muslim electorate, parted ways with the B.J.P. to protest Mr. Modi's promotion in the party hierarchy.
What is more important, however, is that Mr. Modi cannot exploit the Congress Party's otherwise crippling Achilles' heel: corruption. Though the United Progressive Alliance has been mired in one mind-boggling graft scandal after another since 2010, the anticorruption crusade of 2011 that drew massive middle-class crowds was led by a Gandhian-looking social activist named Anna Hazare. He forced the governing coalition to discuss in Parliament measures for transparency in government and the creation of an anticorruption watchdog. It was his issue; it can never become the B.J.P.'s.
In India, it's been seen that when a political party moves first on an issue, that party is forever linked in the public mind to that same cause - even if they never robustly take up the issue again. So anticorruption cannot be synonymous with the B.J.P., the way affirmative action for backward castes has not been synonymous with the Congress - even though the Congress has legislated affirmative action for backward castes in higher education.
Indian voters associate affirmative action with left-of-center parties like the Samajwadi Party (whose progenitor, the undivided Janata Dal, in 1990 implemented the B.P. Mandal Commission's report on affirmative action for "other backward castes"). Similarly, not even Mr. Hazare's lieutenant Arvind Kejriwal has been able to use anti-corruption as a crowd pulling issue for his fledgling Aam Aadmi Party (Common Man's party), because the the protests against corruption are linked in the Indian mind to Mr. Hazare alone.
So to benefit from the Congress's utter electoral vulnerability, Mr. Modi and the B.J.P. have been projecting the Gujarat strongman as Mr. Efficiency. Mr. Modi has been at it for a while, emphasizing governance and development, collecting testimonies of his ability to defeat red tape from India's top industrialists.
Most famously, he immediately invited Tata Motors to set up its manufacturing plant in Gujarat for the world's cheapest car, the Nano, when West Bengal developed cold feet after severe popular protests. And now, after becoming B.J.P.'s electoral campaign chief, the Uttarakhand floods provided Mr. Modi with another chance to show leadership, courage and administrative acumen.
Oddly, no one jumped at that chance before Mr. Modi; afterwards, everyone wanted to be on the flood relief bandwagon. There was Mr. Gandhi, who cut short his own party for the larger Party. There was Uttarakhand's chief minister, Vijay Bahuguna, who thought it was an auspicious time to launch his second son, Prayag Bahuguna, in politics by involving him in flood relief. Then there were rival legislators from Andhra Pradesh, a state that is as connected to Uttarakhand as Texas is to Vermont, who came to blows in full public view at the local airport over who would escort rescued pilgrims back home. In India, every high-casualty tragedy has in it the seeds of low-brow comedy.
Will the flood relief help Mr. Modi's plan to become prime minister? He certainly has the first-mover advantage. It has underlined his burning ambition - which has a take-no-prisoners character to it, as more than a few Gujaratis will attest - which may ultimately be to his benefit. Such ambition certainly contrasts with the reluctance of Mr. Gandhi to take the reins of power, even though they have been handed to him on a silver platter. The scion's late arrival and his absence of determination give the impression that a visit to Uttarakhand had been suggested to him by his advisors and that his heart was really not in it.
Yet Mr. Modi cannot do much with his ambition and energy unless he can get a critical mass of voters, the majority of whom are poor. He has never been described as pro-poor. And though he has an opinion on everything, he has kept mum over the United Progressive Alliance's recent decision to double the prices of natural gas, a decision derided by experts as blatantly allowing a dominant private sector player to substantially increase its profits and the bills the Indian consumer pays. To be fair, though Mr. Gandhi postures as an advocate for the poor, his on-the-record admiration for Prime Minister Manmohan Singh reveals an unabashed pro-business mindset; he's also kept mum on the much-jeered natural gas price rise.
In the race for that critical mass of votes, Mr. Modi appears to have already won over the urban middle class: witness banners put up by the local assemblyman in Mumbai's Santa Cruz that, in Marathi, lauded "Rambo" (the Congress party's term of derision for Modi after his Uttarakhand evacuation claim) for rescuing 15,000 people. For the middle-class, even the mud slung on Modi turns to gold.
Mr. Gandhi's party has kept wooing the rural poor through policy measures like the National Rural Employment Guarantee Scheme, which ensures 100 days of paid work for everyone in the countryside, or the upcoming Food Security Bill, which will guarantee a minimum amount of food grain per family at subsidized prices. Still, it faces an uphill climb in the next national elections against the regional parties.
The only constituency that might be up for grabs - and this differs from state to state, city to city, town to town - is the urban poor. Though the urban poor are disgusted with the governing coalition, the B.J.P. speaks a language alien to them. The B.J.P. never speaks of regularizing slums, or providing running water or electricity to resettled slum dwellers, which are the real issues for the urban poor; instead, the B.J.P. speaks of abstract things like the Indian Constitution's Article 370 (which defines Kashmir's relationship to India), a matter that even middle-class voters find difficult to understand.
A significant portion of the urban poor - India's Muslims - will never vote for Mr. Modi. For the rest, he has to push his Mr. Efficiency agenda, because in a rapidly transforming India, the urban poor are keenly aware of their rights, have access to information and see a vista of opportunity opening up. Mr. Modi is hoping that they want a leader who means business, so
he flew up to Uttarakhand and displayed his administrative prowess.
It remains to be seen whether or not his tactics will work in a country like India, where national tragedies are seen as business opportunities - as in Uttarakhand, where starving and thirsty pilgrims were charged 300 rupees, or $5, for a 33-cent bottle of water, and 180 rupees, or $3, for a roti. What can't be denied is that when Mr. Modi acts, Mr. Gandhi reacts. And that can never bode well for an incumbent party.
 Aditya Sinha is the former Editor-in-Chief of Daily News and Analysis and The New Indian Express. 

        
Homelessness and Unemployment Stares Down at Uttarakhand Villages After the Flood
        
Bihar Ally Leaves Opposition Coalition Over Modi's Elevation
        
Congress Party Craters in Gujarat
        
India's 'Common Man' Activist on Tireless Publicity Campaign
        
Activists Against Corruption Claim Police Harassment

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); SCANDALS (72%); RELIGION (61%) Bharatiya Janata Party; Corruption (Institutional); Floods; Gujarat State (India); Hazare, Anna; India; Janata Dal (United) Party; Kejriwal, Arvind; New Delhi (India); Uttarakhand; Uttarakhand (India)

ORGANIZATION: Bharatiya Janata Party; Janata Dal (United) Party

PERSON: Hazare, Anna; Kejriwal, Arvind

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (95%) WEST INDIA (94%); GUJARAT, INDIA (91%); NORTH INDIA (79%); SOUTH INDIA (79%); TAMIL NADU, INDIA (79%); UTTAR PRADESH, INDIA (58%) INDIA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%) Gujarat State (India); India; New Delhi (India); Uttarakhand (India)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



103 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: Daily Report: G.M.-Honda Partnership Aims for Fuel Cell by End of Decade

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: The automakers, considered leaders in hydrogen fuel cell technology, said they could reduce costs and development time by working on a common design, Lindsay Brooke reports in The New York Times. 

 BODY:
General Motors and Honda will develop and share a hydrogen fuel cell for vehicles they would produce around the end of the decade, the automakers announced on Tuesday, Lindsay Brooke reports in The New York Times. 
Speaking in Manhattan, G.M.'s vice chairman, Stephen Girsky, and the president of American Honda, Tetsuo Iwamura, said that by collaborating on a common design and components, they would lower costs and reduce development time.
They said they would also work with energy suppliers and state and local governments to expand the network of hydrogen refueling stations, a critical element in fostering consumer acceptance of fuel-cell vehicles.
Fuel cells, which combine hydrogen gas stored in the vehicle with oxygen from the atmosphere to generate electricity, offer driving distances and refueling times equivalent to those of gasoline-powered cars. Though the electricity is produced on board, rather than drawn from a battery pack, the vehicles qualify as zero-emission because the only byproduct is water vapor. Many researchers regard fuel cells as more promising than batteries as an electricity source for vehicles.
Fuel cells also are expected to play an important role in the federal fuel economy regulations set for 2017 to 2025. A section of those rules allows each fuel-cell vehicle to count as 1.75 conventional vehicles in 2020 and 1.5 vehicles in 2021. Such credits enable automakers to somewhat offset the fuel economy of less-efficient vehicles like sport utility vehicles and large trucks.

        
G.M. Tinkers With Augmented Reality System for Cars
        
Daily Report: Making Apps in the Motor City
        
Daily Report: U.S. Says Self-Driving Cars Could Save Lives
        
AT&T and General Motors Will Bring Wireless Data to Cars
        
Driving Miss Siri

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (97%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (92%); HYDROGEN POWERED VEHICLES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); EMISSIONS (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (56%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; automobiles; Energy and Power; General Motors; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Hydrogen; Automobiles; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (95%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (90%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors; Honda Motor Co Ltd

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (95%); 7267 (TSE) (95%); GM (NYSE) (90%) General Motors; GM; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



104 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Here's an App to Help You Find a Local 'Find'

BYLINE: EILENE ZIMMERMAN


HIGHLIGHT: NoChains helps users search for the best dishes in town. When the app reaches 300 to 400 downloads a day, the owner said, &#8220;we&#8217;ll essentially be a food search engine.&#8221; 

 BODY:
In 2010 Rich Winley was running a marketing company in Greenville, S.C., when he decided to participate in a seven-week business exchange program to Australia through his local Rotary Club. The group traveled from the small town of Darwin in the north down to Sydney, visiting a different city every two or three days.
While in Darwin, Mr. Winley asked local residents to suggest their favorite restaurants so he wouldn't get stuck eating at chains. "I ended up taking my group to a restaurant that looked like a house in the middle of a river. We had to take a boat to get there," he said. "We had burgers made from local game, like kangaroo. They were probably some of the best burgers I'd ever had." 
When he got back to Greenville, Mr. Winley decided to create a business that would help people find the best local dishes wherever they were. "It's not that I dislike chains, it's just that you can eat at Applebee's anywhere," he said. "Why eat there when you're traveling to someplace new?"
From that idea NoChains was born as a free app that allows users to look for the best independent, non-chain restaurants in an area. Mr. Winley started working on the app after being accepted into a 12-week program at a Greenville accelerator, The Iron Yard, part of the Global Accelerator Network. Through a friend of a friend he met Dan Mall, an expert in user interface who lived in Philadelphia. He became a partner in NoChains and, working remotely, designed the app's interface.
NoChains works by allowing users to search for a specific dish. Rather than searching for "Best Thai food," users can look for the best Pad Thai or Tom Kha Gai. The app was introduced first in Greenville, which happens to be Mr. Winley's hometown, in February, and then in March it had a soft introduction at the South by Southwest conference. In June, NoChains debuted in New York City, with the app briefly hitting No. 50 in the iTunes store's food and drink category.
Employees: None. Mr. Winley and Mr. Mall, partners in the business, use subcontractors as needed.
Location: Houston.
Pitch: No matter where you travel, there will always be a place that locals recommend for having the best particular kind of food or specific dish, whether it's sushi, coq au vin or Pad Thai.
Traction: The app is being downloaded between 75 and 130 times a day.
Challenges: Getting a critical mass of users to "like" and review particular dishes at independent restaurants. "Once we get enough likes and have enough people using NoChains, the recommendations will be relevant. Now people are mostly using it to find local restaurants, and we have a fair amount of vegetarians and those that are gluten-free using it, because you can sort dishes that way," Mr. Winley said.
Another challenge is building a solid team of developers, researchers and sales representatives on a limited budget. At this point Mr. Winley outsources development work to freelancers, as well as the tedious work of collecting and inputting restaurant information. "Because I'm a start-up I have learned how to delegate work very economically," he said. "I use a mixture of Elance, Fiverr and Mechanical Turk, where you can hire on an hourly basis. And I do all the sales and marketing myself."
Revenue: The revenue model Mr. Winley initially had in mind - restaurants paying NoChains for analytics - wasn't tenable, because his research showed that half of smaller, independent restaurants don't even have Web sites. Now Mr. Winley is developing a Web-site-creation platform - called The Foodture - for restaurants. He said it will include analytics, social media integration and point-of-sale integration for a small monthly fee.
 Financing: Mr. Winley has taken a small round of financing - less than $50,000 - from one angel investor in Charleston, S.C. He is now attempting to raise a bigger round - between $850,000 and $1 million in venture capital - and is hoping to close it by August. "I don't want to raise it from just anyone that's interested, I want to raise smart money from those that can be strategic partners," he said.
Competition: There are plenty of apps that help diners find restaurants - UrbanSpoon,LocalEats, Where2Eat and Foodspotting - but few enable a user to search by dish. And most also drive revenue through advertising.
What's Next? Within a year Mr. Winley hopes to be in 20 cities - rolling out next in Boston, San Francisco, Philadelphia, Washington and Chicago. When the app reaches 300 to 400 downloads a day, he said, "we'll essentially be a food search engine."
What do you think?
 You can follow Eilene Zimmerman on Twitter. 

        
My Restaurant Adventure: Gone Fishin'
        
My Restaurant Adventure: Can I Pay With Cash?
        
My Restaurant Adventure: Why I Started Talking to Brokers
        
My Restaurant Adventure: Four Stars and Forewarned
        
How My Restaurant Adventure Came to an End

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (71%); HUMAN FACTORS ENGINEERING (69%); HUMAN MACHINE INTERACTION (69%); SEARCH ENGINES (68%) Computers and the Internet; Greenville (SC); NoChains; Restaurants; Small Business; Winley, Rich; Start

GEOGRAPHIC: GREENVILLE, SC, USA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (92%); NORTHERN TERRITORY, AUSTRALIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%) Greenville (SC)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



105 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 629 words

HEADLINE: Why Asian Internet Companies Struggle to Become Global

BYLINE: ERIC PFANNER


HIGHLIGHT: A report by a research group affililiated with The Economist magazine looks at the reasons Asian technology companies have been held back from cross-border growth. Among the reasons cited in the report is the lack of trusted online payment systems. 

 BODY:
Asia is home to nearly half of the 2 billion Internet users in the world. It makes most of the hardware - laptops, smartphones, tablets and other gadgets - that is used to gain access to the Internet. In countries like South Korea and Japan, it has some of the fastest wired and wireless networks for carrying Internet traffic.
Yet in one aspect of the high-technology economy, Asia still struggles. It has yet to create an Internet company with the global scale of a Google, Facebook or Amazon. A report published Wednesday by the Economist Intelligence Unit, a research outfit affiliated with The Economist magazine, examines some of the possible reasons for this. 
In some cases, the study says, Asian Internet companies have simply been held back by a lack of international ambition. In countries like China or India, domestic markets are so big that expanding abroad has not always been seen as a necessity. Other companies are reluctant to tackle the cultural challenges of operating in the West, according to the report, whose conclusions were reached after interviews with Internet entrepreneurs and others.
But that is starting to change. A new generation of Asian Web companies is seeing rapid cross-border growth - including, in some cases, in the West. These include online messaging services like Line, from Japan, and WeChat, which is owned by a Chinese Internet business, Tencent. Social gaming companies, like GungHo of Japan, have also achieved strong international growth.
Meanwhile, Alibaba, an e-commerce giant in China, has increasingly international ambitions, and is expected to offer stock to the public soon to finance them. Another Asian e-commerce company, Rakuten of Japan, has moved to expand abroad through acquisitions of companies like PriceMinister of France, and it has adopted English as its official language.
Yet these are the exceptions. The study says Asian Internet companies have been hobbled by factors like a lack of trusted online payment systems, a reluctance among Internet users to pay for digital content and restrictions on hiring foreign workers. The report also highlights burdensome regulations, including laws in countries like India and Thailand that make Internet companies responsible for the content posted on their sites.
"In many markets around the region, change must begin with a better understanding, on the part of governments, of the specific challenges facing Internet businesses, and a more general recognition of the growth opportunity that online commerce represents," the authors write.
Asia is not alone in struggling to export home-grown Internet services. If anything, Europe has had an even harder time - despite lesser regulatory, linguistic and cultural hurdles to international expansion.
The report was sponsored by the Asia Internet Coalition, a group that was formed by five American Internet companies - Google, Facebook, Yahoo, eBay and Salesforce. The Economist Intelligence Unit says it was written independently. But some of the issues that are highlighted - especially the effect of regulation - do mirror the complaints from American Internet entrepreneurs and executives about operating in Asia.
In addition to the well-known restrictions that American Internet companies face in China, where services like Facebook and Twitter are blocked, Silicon Valley giants have also struggled in some other Asian markets. In South Korea, for example, the Internet search business is dominated by two local players, Naver and Daum, and not by Google.
The report makes clear recommendations for stimulating the Internet economy in Asia, urging governments there, for instance, to make regulatory changes to allow efficient online payments systems to develop.
Who would be the main beneficiaries? That is less clear.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); ELECTRONIC BILLING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (89%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); TABLET COMPUTERS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); WRITERS (75%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); LINGUISTICS (63%); FOREIGN LABOR (50%); ACQUISITIONS (50%) Internet

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); JAPAN (94%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); FRANCE (79%); THAILAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



106 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: The Economics of Mad Geniuses

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Is it possible that mental illness could, in some cases, be good for worker productivity? 

 BODY:
In a magazine column this week, I talked about how expanding access to mental health care could be a cost-effective way to help the economy, given the economic costs of untreated or inadequately treated illness (like worker absenteeism and subsidized housing). 
Now to play devil's advocate: Is it possible that untreated mental illness is not entirely bad for the economy, that mental illness could in some cases improve worker productivity?
After all, history is littered with examples of "mad geniuses" whose creativity and innovativeness have sometimes been attributed to alleged mental illness (e.g., Thomas Edison, Ernest Hemingway, Vincent Van Gogh, John Nash). There are likewise entrepreneurs of our own time who have been publicly characterized as having some sort of mental or at least neurological disorder. Former executives of JetBlue and Kinkos, for example, famously credited their A.D.H.D. with helping them think more creatively. Stories about 48-hour-straight coding sessions in Silicon Valley can sound a bit like manic behavior, too.
Maybe having a mild version of a mental illness is advantageous, at least for aptitude in certain endeavors and interests. Potentially supporting this idea is a recent study by neuroscientists at Princeton that found a connection between choice of college major and a having a family history (or in some cases, a personal diagnosis of their own) of certain mental or neurological disorders. Other studies have found that bipolar disorder and schizophrenia correlate with high creativity and intelligence.
Perhaps you might wonder if broader push to bring people into the mental health care system could lead to overmedication, and potentially dull the brilliance of some oddball innovators. Economists, epidemiologists and other medical experts that I spoke with, though, say that preponderance of evidence suggests that mental illness almost always does more harm than good, especially if you use the broader lens of well-being, and not just economic productivity.
"A little bit of O.C.D. might be a good thing for you to look for in someone working for you on technical issues," said Ronald C. Kessler, a health policy professor at Harvard Medical School who focuses on mental illness. "Even though the symptoms might lead to higher productivity, they could still be quite impairing in the person's personal life."
He added also that the potential upside of medical abnormality is not unique to mental illness.
"Double-jointedness can be disabling," he said, "but it is also something in milder form that is found in many world-class competitive swimmers."

        
Most U.S. Health Spending Is Exploding - but Not for Mental Health
        
Immigration and Entrepreneurship
        
Affordable Care Act Could Be Good for Entrepreneurship
        
The Future of Driving
        
America's Biggest Entrepreneurs: High School Dropouts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (89%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (77%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); EVIDENCE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (65%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (65%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); SWIMMING (50%); SPORTS (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%) Creativity; Entrepreneurship; Mental Health and Disorders; Productivity

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (56%)

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



107 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Congressional Budget Analysts Release Positive Economic Assessment of Immigration Overhaul

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: They conclude that the measure that passed in the Senate would cut more than $800 billion from the federal deficit over the next two decades and lead to 9.6 million new legal residents in the country. 

 BODY:
Congressional budget analysts on Wednesday released a positive economic assessment of the broad overhaul of the nation's immigration laws that passed the Senate last week, saying that the new legislation would cut more than $800 billion from the federal deficit over the next two decades and lead to 9.6 million new legal residents in the country.
Though the Congressional Budget Office had offered in June a similar estimate of the immigration bill that was then being debated in the Senate - in a report that found the benefits of an increase in legal residents from the immigration overhaul would outweigh the costs - the new report provides an analysis of the actual bill recently passed by the Senate. 
At the time, the budget office's report was seen as a boon for immigration advocates and Senate Democrats.
The new report on the final bill, which includes several provisions to further strengthen border security, estimates that the net effect of adding new tax-paying residents in the first decade after the immigration bill is carried out would cut the federal budget deficit by $158 billion. The deficit reduction would be even greater in the following decade, from 2024 to 2033 - an estimated $685 billion, or 0.2 percent of the gross domestic product, according to the report.
The deficit reduction figures over the first decade, however, do not account for the net discretionary spending costs of $23 billion to implement the bill, making the net savings slightly lower - $135 billion.
Though the legislation would cut the budget deficit by $843 billion over the next 20 years, that number is a fraction of the $47 trillion that the Congressional Budget Office projects will be spent in just half that time.
Perhaps more important, especially to many Republicans, the report also found that the legislation would further reduce future waves of illegal immigration - the result, in large part, of a border security amendment added by Senators Bob Corker of Tennessee and John Hoeven of North Dakota, both Republicans.
Though the original report found that the bill would reduce the number of immigrants in the country illegally by just 25 percent, the analysis of the final bill estimates "that the net inflow would be reduced by between one-third and one-half compared with the projected net inflow under current law."
The Senate-approved bill, according to a letter from the budget office to Senator Patrick Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, "would significantly increase border security relative to the committee-approved version of the bill, and it would strengthen enforcement against those who stay in the country after their authorization has expired."
Thus, the letter continued, "the Senate-passed act would reduce both illegal entry into the country and the number of people who stay in the country beyond the end of their authorized period."
In a statement, Senator Charles E. Schumer, the Democrat of New York who helped write the Senate bill, said the budget office "once again vindicated immigration reform and shows how the amendment process improved the bill. CBO has reaffirmed that immigration reform reduces the debt and grows the economy. It also shows that the Corker-Hoeven amendment further substantially reduces the flow of illegal immigrants, even using a methodology that underestimates how effective immigration reform will be in reducing that flow."

        
Senate Likely to Vote on Immigration Overhaul Before July 4
        
Immigration Campaign to Target 11 House Republicans
        
In Senate Floor Speech, Rubio Explains His Immigration Push
        
The Early Word: Escalating
        
Supporters of Immigration Bill Offer Amendment Focused on Women

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (93%); IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (91%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%) Congressional Budget Office; Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Hoeven, John; Immigration and Emigration; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Congressional Budget Office

PERSON: BOB CORKER (79%); JOHN HOEVEN (77%); PATRICK LEAHY (59%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Hoeven, John

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



108 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Smoky Hot Hatch Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Volkswagen said it would bring a performance diesel-powered Golf to North America in 2015, and American automakers try to keep tariffs on Japan for an additional 25 to 30 years. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 According to a report from Automotive News, Volkswagen will be selling its diesel-power Golf GTD in North America in 2015, probably as a 2016 model. Volkswagen unveiled the performance diesel version of its seventh-generation Golf at this year's Geneva auto show. It is to go on sale in Europe over the summer. The GTD features a 184-horsepower 2-liter turbo-diesel, which gets it from 0 to 60 miles per hour in about 7 seconds. Highway fuel economy will be about 40 m.p.g. VW told Automotive News that the GTD would start at about $27,000. (Automotive News) 
 Nissan says that it will offer an electric city car to rival the Twizy, made by Nissan's sister company, Renault. Nissan said its design would be an improvement on the Renault city car, offering better weatherproofing and real doors. The Twizy has a range of 30 to 50 miles, with performance characteristics and cost that fall between a large scooter and a small city car. (Green Car Reports)
 The oak tree that for years presided over Oak Tree Turn at Virginia International Raceway has fallen over, said raceway officials. This week the base of the tree, a symbol of the track, broke, and the tree collapsed. The track's management has solicited ideas, and the responses received online have included suggestions to make trophies out of the wood and to simply plant a new tree. (Virginia International Raceway)
 Not in any particular hurry to see American lawmakers remove tariffs levied upon Japanese vehicles, the Detroit Three are pushing for the tariffs to be phased out over no fewer than 25 or 30 years. Japanese cars are assessed a 2.5 percent tariff and Japanese trucks 25 percent. The American Automotive Policy Council has accused Japan of manipulating currency values to make American cars less competitive in the Japanese market, but the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said that American cars do poorly in Japan because there are few small cars, which are popular there. The United States signed a free trade pact with South Korea in 2010, but that agreement calls for the tariffs to be phased out over six years. (Automotive News)

        
Formula One's Tire Fiasco Recalls the Sport's Sometimes Lethal Past
        
Wheelies: The End of an Era Edition
        
Wheelies: The Rent-a-Lambo Edition
        
A Huge Crowd Converges at Le Mans
        
Monday Motorsports: Kanaan, Rosberg and Harvick Collect Big Wins

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); AUTO RACING (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); FORMULA ONE RACING (73%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (68%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); CURRENCIES (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); GOLF (58%) Automobile Racing; automobiles; International Trade and World Market; Japan; Japan Automobile Manufacturers Assn; Nissan Motor Co; North America; Renault SA; Trees and Shrubs; Virginia; Automobiles

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Japan Automobile Manufacturers Assn; Nissan Motor Co; Renault SA

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (95%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%) Japan; North America; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2013



109 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2777 words

HEADLINE: Should Republicans Just Focus on White Voters?

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: Party tacticians argue over whether to pursue a strategy of radical &#8216;racial polarization&#8217; or the &#8216;full Rubio&#8217; of moderation. 

 BODY:
For two decades, from 1972 to 1992, the Democratic Party agonized over its loss of support among whites, especially those in the working class. Over the next two decades, from the election of Bill Clinton in 1992 to the re-election of Barack Obama in 2012, the party slowly came to terms with its loss and learned how to win the presidency with a minority of white voters.
Now the white vote has become a Republican problem. White voters cast 72 percent of all votes in the Obama-Romney election of 2012 compared to 87 percent in the Nixon-McGovern contest in 1972. Should the Republican Party accept the fact that the white majority in the United States is getting smaller or should it bet on boosting Republican margins and turnout rates among whites to record levels?
The debate within the Republican Party on this fraught topic has provoked new levels of over-the-top rhetoric among the old guard on the farther right side of the Republican spectrum. 
Phyllis Schlafly, a conservative anti-feminist, declared in a radio interview on May 24:
The people the Republicans should reach out to are the white votes - the white voters who didn't vote in the last election. And there are millions of them. And I think when you have an establishment-run nomination system, they give us a series of losers, which they've given us with Dole, and McCain, and Romney.
Not to be outdone, as he rarely is, Pat Buchanan wrote in the American Conservative on June 14:
In political terms, this is depressing news for the Republican Party. For nearly 90 percent of all Republican votes in presidential elections are provided by Americans of European descent. In 1960 white folks were close to 90 percent of the entire U.S. population and 95 percent of the electorate. Nixon's New Majority was created by pulling Northern Catholic ethnics and Southern conservative Protestants, white folks all, out of the Roosevelt coalition and bringing them into a new alliance that would give Nixon a 49-state landslide in 1972, which Reagan would replicate in 1984.
Buchanan continued:
What are the Republicans doing? Going back on their word, dishonoring their platform and enraging their loyal supporters, who gave Mitt 90 percent of his votes, to pander to a segment of the electorate that gave Mitt less than 5 percent of his total votes? Whom the gods would destroy they first make mad.
Buchanan and Schlafly thrive on a willingness to say - without regard to appearances - what others privately think but don't want to be caught saying openly. There are other conservative strategists and operatives, closer to the actual business of running campaigns, who see things differently.
I want to focus on three strategists who explore issues of race, message, strategy and the future of the Republican Party:
Sean Trende, the senior elections analyst for RealClearPolitics, who has written a four-part series that seeks to broadly address the problems and alternative choices facing the Republican Party;
Timothy Carney, a columnist for the Washington Examiner, who makes the case for an anti-elite Republican Party, a "free-market populism and a Republican Party that fights against all forms of political privilege - a party that champions all who want to work and take risks in order to improve their lives and raise a family";
And Karl Rove, the Republican strategist who needs no introduction, argues in the Wall Street Journal that "the nonwhite share of the vote will keep growing" and that if "the G.O.P. leaves nonwhite voters to the Democrats, then its margins in safe congressional districts and red states will dwindle - not overnight, but over years and decades."
Trende provides the most detailed analysis. He is in fundamental disagreement with political thinkers who posit that demography is destiny, that the steady decline in the white share of the electorate, combined with the rising share made up of Hispanics and Asian-Americans, assures a secure Democratic majority in the foreseeable future. The demographic inevitability argument was most fully developed in the book "The Emerging Democratic Majority" by John B. Judis and Ruy Teixeira.
Trende countered the Judis-Teixeira thesis in an email to the Times:
You can't establish long-lasting majority coalitions in America. Part of this is because parties adapt. You can already begin to see this starting with the G.O.P. on marriage equality, which will probably have a pro-gay marriage nominee at some point in the mid-2020s and might have a pro-civil unions nominee in 2016. The simple truth is that "coalitions of everyone" inevitably fall apart, quickly. You can see the reasons why in the immigration debate itself, where, even if we're only being reluctantly honest, the interests of some core Democratic and Republican coalition groups are at loggerheads with one another (Hispanics vs. working class whites and blacks; upscale whites vs. downscale whites).
Trende explores different future scenarios for the Republican Party: these range from a "racial polarization" strategy at one extreme to an all-out effort by the Republican Party to win Hispanic and Asian support at the other.
Trende takes each scenario and describes what Republicans would have to achieve, in terms of vote margins among major constituencies, to remain competitive in presidential contests.
All of the strategies offered by Trende are purposefully "rosy scenarios" in which Republicans might win the overwhelming majority of presidential elections between 2016 and 2048. Trende explains:
I don't mean to leave the impression that the G.O.P. will win no matter what it does. Tweak some of these assumptions, and you get plenty of Democratic wins too. And it may not matter what the GOP chooses. The most dispiriting possibility is that racially diverse electorates may inherently add racial cleavages to otherwise "neutral" issues, and that polarization becomes inevitable. That's certainly the experience of Northern cities during the great immigrant wave of the early 1900s, as well as of the American South. My point is simply that there are a slew of realistic scenarios where Republicans do very well in the future. In most of the scenarios I consider reasonable, the elections stay close enough that either party could win most any individual election for the foreseeable future.
Trende's most controversial assertion is that from a purely tactical point of view, Republican dependence on whites is not necessarily a liability, despite the decline in the white share of the electorate:
Democrats liked to mock the G.O.P. as the 'Party of White People' after the 2012 elections. But from a purely electoral perspective, that's not a terrible thing to be.
The core of Trende's case for his "racial polarization" scenario, as he makes it on RealClearPolitics, is his analysis showing a 6.1 million drop in the white vote from 2008 to 2012. Trende draws his data from the Census, exit polls and county-by-county election results.
By Trende's calculation, voters who failed to turn out in 2012 were disproportionately Republican-leaning, "largely downscale, Northern, rural whites." If all 6.1 million had cast ballots in 2012, it would not have been enough for Romney to win, but the election would have been much closer.
In Trende's " 'racial polarization' scenario," the political divergence between white and minority America becomes steadily more extreme. Whites, who cast 59 percent of their votes for Romney in 2012, would become more Republican over the next few decades, casting a record-setting 70 percent of their votes for Republicans by 2036. Minorities, blacks, Hispanics and Asian Americans, who cast 80 percent of their votes for Obama in 2012, would, in Trende's "polarization" scenario, be casting 90 percent of their ballots for Democratic candidates by 2036.
Trende put these and other assumptions on turnout rates into an interactive Electoral College calculator developed by my colleague Nate Silver, and produced results (Figure 1) showing that Republicans could win the presidency for seven straight elections between 2016 and 2040.
Trende has developed a second, more moderate scenario, illustrated in Figure 2, which assumes a "modest Republican outreach toward Hispanics" that produces some gains among Latinos and Asian Americans, but does so at the cost of slowing Republican advances among whites.
In the third Trende scenario, the Republican Party goes "full Rubio," embracing immigration reform and the nomination of more Latino candidates, possibly including Marco Rubio, the Florida Republican Senator of Cuban descent. In this scenario, Republicans "back immigration reform" and "nominate a Hispanic-friendly candidate." This strategy, illustrated in Figure 3, produces victory after victory for the Republican Party even as it sacrifices "some progress with white voters."
All of Trende's scenarios are theoretically possible, but the question is: are they realistic? Addressing only the racial polarization projection, it's hard to see 70 percent of the white vote going to Republicans. Richard Nixon in 1972 and Ronald Reagan in 1984, both incumbents running against very weak Democratic opponents, set records for white Republican support, 67 percent and 64 percent, respectively, and no Republican has broken 60 percent since then. In addition, the Democratic Party over the past 20 years has made substantial gains among the growing population of culturally liberal white "knowledge workers." These gains have been key to realigning populous suburbs surrounding northern cities.
Teixeira, responding to my request for comment on Trende's hypothetical scenarios, wrote:
Trende is hardly a knuckle-dragger but he is at great pains to establish that technically the G.O.P. does not need Latino votes, provided the black vote subsides a bit and, most importantly, they not only hold their share of the white vote, but expand. Of course this is technically possible (that is, if things go as Trende hypothesizes, it is certainly true that the Republicans can win without additional Latino votes) but is it a wise course of action? I don't think so. A lot of things have to go right for this technically possible strategy to work, and in their position I would not want to rely on all those things going right - and continuing to go right.
Carney advocates another alternative, a hybrid of the populism advocated by Huey Long and Teddy Roosevelt:
Republicans need a new coalition and a new message. The heart of that coalition should be the working class. The message should be populism.
Carney expects that Republican efforts to build more substantial margins among well-educated affluent whites will fail:
Upscale white suburbs have steadily trended Democratic. Montgomery County, Maryland, was one of the first. Westchester, New York, and the North Shore of Chicago followed. Philadelphia's white-collar counties and Northern Virginia soon joined the club. In 2008, Obama made huge gains in the suburbs, pulling in 60 percent in Fairfax County, for instance, and winning the vote of those voters earning over $100,000, according to exit polls.
Carney writes that in 2012, "Republicans couldn't have picked a candidate better suited for highly educated, upper-middle-class suburban voters. Romney was successful, risk-averse, smart and non-ideological," but his "suburban strategy fizzled."
These setbacks suggest that it "is time to give up on building majorities on a suburban foundation." Instead, the Republican Party, in Carney's view,
needs to play to the disaffected. The disaffected are not the wealthy, an obvious point that conservatives can't seem to understand. The wealthy got wealthier under Obama, and corporations earned record profits while median family earnings fell. Obama uses these facts to defuse the charges he's a socialist. Republicans should use them to show that Obama's big government expands the privileges of the privileged class.
Carney's views are shared, at least in part, by a wing of conservatism that includes my colleague Ross Douthat, who, along with Reihan Salam, a contributing editor at National Review, in 2005 proposed a "downscale" or "Sam's Club" Republican strategy in The Weekly Standard, an argument which they elaborated upon in a 2008 book "Grand New Party: How Republicans Can Win the Working Class and Save the American Dream."
Carney's proposal would require an upheaval of the Republican hierarchy. Currently, the party has substantial support from the white working class, but its agenda, particularly its economic agenda, is set by an elite with century-old ties to corporate America. At the policy-making level, the Republican Party has represented the interests of society's winners, not its losers.
This brings us to Rove, the most prominent of the three strategists under discussion. Rove planned to use the two-term presidency of George W. Bush to entrench a sustained Republican majority. Rove is an advocate of a version of Trende's "full Rubio" strategy, as witnessed by Rove's oversight of Bush's success in winning over 40 percent of the Latino vote in 2004.
In a Wall Street Journal op-ed on June 26, Rove stated his views about an optimal Republican approach, writing that "100,042,000 whites voted in 2008 but only 98,041,000 did in 2012." To Rove, this raised a key question, "Wouldn't it be better to get those two million whites back into the polling booth?" His answer: If these stay-at-home folks had gone to the polls, "Romney's vote total would have increased by 1,180,590. But President Obama's vote total would have increased by 780,390, and Mr. Romney still would have lost the election by 4.6 million votes."
Rove implicitly attacked Trende's racial polarization scenario, contending that "it's unreasonable to expect Republicans to routinely" replicate Reagan's 64 percent white margin in 1984, much less win 70 percent of the white vote.
Rove cited some dramatic statistics to argue that the Republican Party disregards Hispanics at its peril:
The Hispanic population in Georgia's Gwinnett County increased by 153% from 2000 to 2010, while the GOP's presidential vote in the county dropped to 54% in 2012 from 63.7% in 2000. In Henry County, south of Atlanta, the Hispanic population increased by 339% over the same decade. The GOP's presidential vote dropped to 51.2% in 2012 from 66.4% in 2000.
Rove's solution is less a coherent strategy than a call to arms: "Republicans must now do two things: turn out more white voters and improve their performance among Hispanics, African-Americans and Asian-Americans." In other words, the Republican Party must be all things to all men.
In an email, Trende described his own strategic preferences to me as a moderate effort to reach out to Hispanics, combined with a degree of focus on low and middle income earners:
To the extent I have suggestions, they were for more economic populism. These include a lot of changes Democrats would presumably enjoy; jettisoning the upscale, Club-for-Growth-style conservatism that characterized the Romney campaign for something authentically more geared toward downscale voters.
Right now, the Republican Party is caught in a vise: it is dependent on support from a diminishing but still powerful constituency of socially, culturally and morally conservative whites from across the economic spectrum, many of whom oppose gay rights and immigration reform. But the party must also deal with two ascendant constituencies: culturally tolerant - indeed, permissive - young and suburban voters of all races, along with Hispanic voters who place a priority on immigration reform that gives undocumented aliens a path to citizenship.
Just to complicate matters, these strategic choices for Republicans are very different for candidates for president and for the House. Some Republicans aiming at the presidency will decide it is essential to woo Hispanics in order to win a national election, while many Republicans aiming at the House will view support for immigration reform as a guarantee of defeat in a primary.
These dilemmas are characteristic of a party undergoing a seismic transformation. The Republican Party will likely replicate the experience of the Democratic Party in the 1970s and 1980s, changing only after repeated rejection of the party's presidential nominees. There is too much at stake for key players in the Republican coalition to allow the party to fail to adapt. The question is, how long will it have to suffer the humiliation of defeat before it begins the process in earnest?

        
In Political Campaigns, Do You Get What You Pay For?
        
The G.O.P.'s Digital Makeover
        
The Republican Autopsy Report
        
Republicans Ask Themselves What Went Wrong
        
How Much Does Race Still Matter?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (95%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (75%); INTERVIEWS (67%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); ETHNICITY (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (52%) Douthat, Ross G; Judis, John B; Presidential Election of 2012; Presidential Election of 2016; Race and Ethnicity; Republican Party; Rove, Karl; Salam, Reihan; Schlafly, Phyllis; Teixeira, Ruy; Voting and Voters; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (92%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); KARL ROVE (72%) Douthat, Ross G; Judis, John B; Rove, Karl; Salam, Reihan; Schlafly, Phyllis; Teixeira, Ruy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



110 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 3, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: A Chance for Oversight on Civil Liberties

BYLINE: DAVID FIRESTONE


HIGHLIGHT: David Medine was sworn in as chairman of a privacy board exactly one week before the N.S.A. data-mining revelations. 

 BODY:
On May 29, after a year's delay by Senate Republicans, David Medine was sworn in as chairman of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board. Exactly one week later, the Guardian published a secret order from the Federal Intelligence Surveillance Court, showing that the government was collecting the phone records of most Americans.
Almost immediately, Mr. Medine and his board were thrust into the biggest debate about privacy the country has had in many years. Members of Congress demanded that the board issue reports about the civil liberties implications of the phone-records program and another one that allows the National Security Agency to request the e-mail messages of foreigners under investigation. New leaks from the collection of documents pilfered by Edward Snowden continue to emerge every few days. And yet the privacy board still hasn't had a chance to hire most of its staff, or set up a Web site or even an e-mail address. 
That may explain why Mr. Medine sounded a little breathless earlier today. "It's quite an exciting time," he said in an interview.

He also sounded determined to make his shop a real player in this debate, a promise that suggests someone might finally exercise the independent oversight now lacking in Washington. Congressional leaders and judges on the FISA court have shown themselves willing to go along with virtually any program the Obama administration requests, and the administration is not in a position to oversee its own actions.
"In a sense we are the eyes and ears of the public," said Mr. Medine, who enforced privacy laws at the Federal Trade Commission during the 1990s and has also worked on privacy legislation for the National Economic Council at the Clinton White House. "We don't answer to the administration."
The board is appointed by the president - it currently consists of three Democrats, including Mr. Medine, and two Republicans - but is supposed to act on its own. It is empowered to investigate any government program or regulation, in and out of the intelligence world, and make recommendations on how to improve its privacy and civil liberties record. Agency heads are supposed to turn over any documents the board requests, and the attorney general can issue subpoenas on its behalf to the private sector.
But the board cannot issue public critiques of intelligence programs that are too secret for the government to acknowledge. Board members, who have top security clearances, can only secretly criticize secret programs to Congress and the White House.
"That's our challenge, to develop public trust," he said. "We will take a hard look at the programs we can talk about, and then we can communicate to the president and Congress in classified form things we might not be happy with."
Mr. Medine, a Washington lawyer who has advised corporate clients on compliance with privacy regulations, didn't want to discuss his opinions of the N.S.A. revelations while the board evaluates them. (The board's reports on the two most-discussed domestic programs will be public, because they were declassified after Mr. Snowden's leaks.)
But he said the board will try to answer several questions for every program it examines: Is it legal, operating in the manner in which Congress intended or complying with a court's authority? Is it constitutional, or does it violate Fourth Amendment protections against unreasonable searches and seizures? Does it chill freedom of speech, or association, or religion? Is it sufficiently transparent and accountable? Even if it is legal, does a program strike the right balance between effectiveness and protecting civil liberties?
"A program may technically be O.K., but is it the right thing to be doing?" Mr. Medine asked. "Does it need to be disclosed to others, and is there another way it could be done with the same effectiveness in combating terrorism?"
At the moment, only a few isolated voices in government are asking these good questions. The board has met with President Obama and received a classified briefing on the secret surveillance programs. It plans a public workshop with privacy advocates on Tuesday. But before these issues get swept away in the next Washington crisis, its members need to dig in and raise their voices as loud as possible.

        
How Can We Debate Secret Law?
        
Edward Snowden's Mad Dash
        
Secrets, Non-Secrets and Leaks
        
Snowden's Questionable New Turn
        
N.S.A. Monitoring and Partisan Hypocrisy

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBPOENAS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); LAWYERS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); DATA MINING (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (68%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (63%) Medine, David; Privacy; Surveillance of Citizens by Government

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%) Medine, David

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



111 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: As U.S. Trade Deficit Grows, Some Growth Forecasts Drop

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States trade deficit widened in May to its highest level in six months as a sluggish global economy depressed demand for American exports. Fewer exports mean growth in the April-June quarter could be weaker than previously forecast. 
The trade deficit rose to $45 billion in May, up 12.1 percent from $40.1 billion in April, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday. It was the largest trade gap since November.
Exports slipped 0.3 percent to $187.1 billion. Sales of American farm products dropped to their lowest point in more than two years. American exports have been hurt by recessions in many European countries.
Imports rose 1.9 percent to $232.1 billion. Imports of autos and other nonpetroleum products rose widely.
The trade deficit is running at an annual rate of $501.2 billion, 6.3 percent lower than last year's deficit.
Paul Dales, senior United States economist at Capital Economics, said the larger trade deficit for May indicated that economic growth in the second quarter could be even weaker than the sluggish 1.5 percent annual rate that he had forecast.
Economists at Barclays said the higher deficit led them to downgrade their growth forecast for the second quarter to 1 percent, from 1.6 percent.
The American economy expanded at an annual rate of only 1.8 percent in the first three months of the year.
For May, exports to the European Union were up 6.4 percent. But over the last five months, exports to this region have declined 6.3 percent from the same period in 2012. Europe has been hurt by a prolonged debt crisis, which has led to recessions across the Continent.
The United States trade deficit with China jumped 15.6 percent to $27.9 billion in May. That is close to the monthly high set in November. So far this year, the trade deficit with China, the largest with any country, is running 3 percent higher than last year.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Balance of Trade: The deficit is the excess of imports over exports for goods and services. Amounts are rounded, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); EXPORT TRADE (93%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



112 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPECIAL REPORT: LOUIS VUITTON CUP; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Loïck Peyron, Sailing's 'Free Electron'

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
ALAMEDA, California -- ''I like to be a free electron,'' Loïck Peyron said.
At age 53, Peyron has certainly bounced around the sailing world and its challenges: from the single-handed privations of the Vendée Globe round-the-world race to the intense teamwork required to claim the Jules Verne Trophy to the hundreds of other races in the multihulls that he understands as well as any sailor.
It has been a remarkably eclectic run, and the albatross-size wingspan of Peyron's career is perhaps wider than any of the other men who will try to win the America's Cup between now and September.
Peyron first dreamed of the Cup when he was a schoolboy on summer vacation in the south of France in 1970. The Frenchman Baron Marcel Bich was challenging for the Cup in Newport, Rhode Island, and Peyron built himself a little dinghy with a sheet stolen from his mother for a sail. Peyron said his father jokingly wrote on the sail, ''le pessimiste, Newport.'' 
It would take nearly 40 years for Peyron to make it into the Cup itself, serving as co-helmsman with Ernesto Bertarelli, the owner of the Swiss team Alinghi which was beaten by BMW Oracle in a contentious giant multihull duel in Valencia, Spain in 2010.
''The way Larry won it on the water was impressive; the way in which they invited themselves into the final was not,'' said Peyron, referring to Oracle's billionaire owner, Larry Ellison, and the legal machinations that preceded the 2010 Cup. ''But that was another problem, a legal problem. After that, the way in which they reacted and tried to revolutionize and give a facelift to this old grandmother of an event was superb.''
The odds at this stage are heavily against him and his latest employer, Artemis Racing, which is struggling to recover from the loss of its first boat in a capsizing that cost the life of a British crew member, Andrew Simpson.
The surprise and disappointment is that Peyron, a star in his native France, is not running his own team in this Cup. When it became clear that it was going to be contested in 72-foot catamarans, it seemed as if France, with its long-established taste for multihulls, finally might play a central role in a sport historically dominated by English-speaking nations.
But instead of uniting forces, as Team New Zealand has done with tens of millions of dollars in governmental support, the leading French sailors started two competing challengers: Aleph and Energy Team. Energy Team was founded by Peyron and his older brother Bruno, also a prominent offshore sailor in France. But even the Peyrons' star power was not enough to generate the funding from home necessary to launch a viable challenge for the 34th Cup.
Neither French team made it to the starting line, and the Peyron brothers' failure is also, in some fashion, the failure of the America's Cup organizers to limit costs and encourage participation. Only three challengers are involved in the Louis Vuitton Cup, the winner of which will face Oracle Team USA in September's America's Cup, and none of the challenging syndicates is from Asia: all quite a comedown from the 11 challengers in the last Vuitton Cup in 2007.
Peyron said Team Energy's goal was to raise &#x20ac;40 million, or about $52 million, well below the reported operating budgets of Artemis and the defender, Oracle Team USA.
''We were very far away financially,'' Peyron said, in a recent interview at Artemis's base.
''It was complicated, and it still is,'' he said. ''The explanation is simple. It's because France is a bit of an exception in the world of sailing. It has been so well nourished by other events for so many years: the Vendée Globe, the Route du Rhum, the Transat. The French sailing heroes are not the sailors who have been in the America's Cup. Never. The America's Cup has always been a game that did not interest people.''
The high-speed approach embraced this time has given the Cup a more adventurous edge, clearly more in line with the extreme sailing events that the French relish. But it still was not enough to open the commercial gates.
''We are 100 percent commercial; we need sponsors,'' Peyron said, ''If companies are going to invest euros, we have to give them a guaranteed return, and today, politically in France, it would be difficult. There is already the timing in terms of politics and the economy, and there is also a cultural problem in France, a very French problem. We don't like the rich.''
Three of the four teams in this Cup are owned by extremely wealthy men: Luna Rossa Challenge by Patrizio Bertelli, the chief executive officer of the fashion brand Prada; Artemis by Torbjorn Tornqvist, a Swedish oil trader with strong Russian business connections; and Oracle by Larry Ellison, the tech mogul who has been ranked by the news magazine Forbes as the world's fifth-richest individual with a net worth estimated at $43 billion.
But Peyron does not sound bitter about the failure of his team to make the financial cut.
''There's no frustration at all; none; truly,'' he said. ''I much prefer to be here with people where I can exploit 100 percent of my potential rather than losing energy with my brother or someone else trying to scramble for the means to pull this off.''
Though Artemis apparently remains well funded, it is still scrambling to get its second and now only boat ready to take part in the Louis Vuitton Cup.
Peyron is quite accustomed to danger at sea. He has raced around the world alone, finishing second in the first edition of the Vendée Globe in 1989-90 and then failing to finish on two other occasions. In the first Vendée Globe, he provided emergency assistance to the sailor Philippe Poupon in the open ocean, righting his ketch after it had been knocked down on its side during a storm.
Last year, he was captain of the crew of 14 that won the Jules Verne Trophy on 130-foot Banque Populaire V, the world's largest racing trimaran. The Trophy is awarded to the crew that sails around the world fastest, and Peyron's team finished in 45 days 13 hours and just under 43 minutes to return the trophy to the Peyron family (Bruno was the one who helped conceive the event and first won the trophy in 1993).
After icebergs and the perils of the southern ocean, San Francisco Bay would seem a much less daunting prospect, but it was where Simpson died on May 9, with Peyron, one of the two helmsmen, following the team's AC72 in a chase boat when the capsizing occurred, trapping Simpson under the wreckage.
''The danger was known in this case,'' Peyron said. ''We've already seen one capsizing a few months ago, and we know these boats are not very stable because the wing sails are too big. The pity is that with smaller wings, they could be safer and faster.''
When it was suggested that the organizers had overreached, he agreed, but with a caveat.
''Yes, but we don't have to blame them for that,'' he said. ''Because again, nobody forces us to be here. We don't have a gun on our heads, saying we have to sail. We are all choosing our way of living and taking risks or not.''
Peyron, married with four children, has chosen to keep taking the risks, chosen to remain one of professional sailing's free electrons. It is a passion as much as a profession, and when his America's Cup duties with Artemis are finished, he plans, unsurprisingly to try something new by competing in his first Moth world championships in October in Hawaii.
Then in November, he and his wife, Christine, plan to cross the Atlantic in a catamaran.
''She's never sailed across,'' Peyron said. ''It will be just the two of us, en amoreux .''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (77%); BOAT RACING (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (67%)

TICKER: ORCL (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (67%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (54%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (88%) CALIFORNIA, USA (88%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (88%) FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); SPAIN (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



113 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Texas Republican Personifies Challenge for Immigration Bill

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER

 BODY:
GONZALES, Tex. -- The questions about immigration at Representative Blake Farenthold's town meeting were urgent and to the point.
So were the answers.
Mr. Farenthold, a Republican, told an audience here on Tuesday that the overhaul of the nation's immigration laws that recently passed the Senate ''doesn't stand a snowball's chance in hell in the House of Representatives.''
The 70 or so constituents -- largely older, largely white -- who filled the small, warm room in the Gonzales Municipal Building were more curious than combative, more earnest than angry. They wanted to know, for instance, why Mr. Farenthold thought that Senator Marco Rubio, Republican of Florida, had supported the Senate's immigration bill, which includes a path to citizenship for 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the country. ''I think he wants to be president,'' Mr. Farenthold said with a laugh. 
Mr. Farenthold embodies the challenge for advocates of major immigration changes as they press the issue in the House. Even though he represents a district with a significant population of Hispanics, he has strong reservations about providing a path to full citizenship for unauthorized immigrants, a provision that backers of the Senate measure consider a condition of their support. Mr. Farenthold instead favors what he calls ''earned legalization'' -- a process in which immigrants would have to meet a series of conditions for remaining in the United States. Immigration advocates say that approach would create a second class of people who could never become citizens.
''My deal is you start as far to the right as you can get, and go to the conference committee with the Senate, and hopefully end up with something you can live with,'' Mr. Farenthold said in an interview after his event. ''Getting to citizenship is going to be tough, but never say never.''
Mr. Farenthold is among the House Republicans who have expressed some openness to an immigration overhaul. Elected in 2010 on the Tea Party wave, he defeated a longtime Democratic incumbent by 800 votes. His district at the time stretched from Corpus Christi down to Brownsville, on the border with Mexico, with Hispanics making up more than 70 percent of the population.
After a politically favorable redrawing of his district after the 2010 census, Mr. Farenthold now holds what is considered a safe Republican seat, with a decreased, but still significant, share of Hispanics -- 49.5 percent, according to the census.
For many other House Republicans, however, the redistricting changes were starker, creating little political incentive to support an immigration overhaul.
Only 24 Republicans sit in districts that are more than 25 percent Latino, and last year Mitt Romney won 17 of those districts by more than 10 points. That leaves, said David Wasserman, the House editor for The Cook Political Report, only a handful of districts that are ''substantially Latino and remotely competitive.''
Redistricting, Mr. Wasserman added, ''makes the Republican majority in the House almost impenetrable,'' but it also makes the job of Speaker John A. Boehner ''almost unmanageable.''
Representative Steve Israel, Democrat of New York and the chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, described the Republican predicament similarly. ''Redistricting puts them in a very difficult position when they're contemplating voting for immigration reform,'' he said. ''They know in their hearts it's the right thing to do, but their political brain is blaring warning signals that they're exposing themselves to a primary from the Tea Party and extreme right-wing base.''
In person, Mr. Farenthold can come off as slightly goofy. He is fleshy, with a gap between his top front teeth, and he kicked off his hourlong question-and-answer session by joking, ''We can now play stump the congressman with questions.'' After the event, he turned to his district director and said good-naturedly: ''You never got me a Dr Pepper, Bob. That's a hashtag fail.'' Moments later, the soda appeared.
He also threw out bits of red meat intended to appeal to his conservative base. On guns: ''I'm a Texan -- my idea of gun control is hitting what you aim at and nothing else,'' he said. And on potential budget cuts: ''I think there are several departments we could completely get rid of, and we wouldn't miss it,'' he said, as the crowd murmured its assent.
But his tone turned more moderate when he talked about immigration changes, a reflection of the cross forces in his redrawn district: a voting base that disapproves of anything that smacks of amnesty, but also a population that is about half Hispanic, and a business community that believes that undocumented workers are critical to the economy.
The consistent message that he hears from constituents, he said, is ''no to the Senate bill and no amnesty.'' He added, almost wearily, ''Where the lines of amnesty are have not been sorted out in the American psyche.''
Mr. Farenthold told the crowd that he favored the piecemeal approach being taken by the House Judiciary Committee, on which he sits, ''where you're able to say yes or no on whatever issue, rather than having to vote up or down on a big comprehensive bill.''
Later, in the interview, he said that some of those pieces could include a path to legalization for the ''innocent victims'' brought to the country illegally as young children, he said, or ''for folks who served honorably in the military.''
Referring to the 11 million unauthorized immigrants in the country, he added: ''It could be a pathway to legalization. It could be way back in the line, after everyone else.''
If nothing else, Mr. Farenthold hopes to use his background as a talk radio host to help his fellow Republicans ''talk to constituents in a way that isn't offensive, and that shows compassion and that is reasonable.''
He recalled recently doing a radio interview with another Republican legislator, who three times referred to immigrants as ''those people.''
''I've been in radio since I was 15 years old -- you might as well have used a racial slur,'' he said. '' 'Those people' is a bad word.''
Some pro-immigration groups are taking Mr. Farenthold at his word. Jeremy Robbins, the director of the Partnership for a New American Economy, said that Mr. Farenthold was on his organization's list of lawmakers it was hoping to persuade to vote for an immigration compromise.
''He's from Texas, he's on Judiciary, and he's thought about immigration,'' Mr. Robbins said.
And Fernando Garcia, the executive director of the Border Network for Human Rights, which recently helped organize an immigration overhaul tour throughout the state, said he believed that Mr. Farenthold was ''on the fence.''
''If Farenthold doesn't see the future of his district, and if he doesn't see the future of the party as a whole, then he is betting on the wrong side,'' Mr. Garcia said. ''He needs to make a decision within the next few months, because votes are going to happen soon.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Blake Farenthold on Tuesday in Gonzales, Tex. He is wary of a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER WHITNEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: Few Heavily Latino Republican Districts: Because only a handful of Republican congressmen come from districts that are substantially Latino (and most of those seats are considered safe), there is little political pressure at home for House Republicans to take up a broad immigration overhaul bill. (Sources: Cook Political Report
 U.S. House) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CITIZENSHIP (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CENSUS (88%); INTERVIEWS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (72%)

PERSON: BLAKE FARENTHOLD (93%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); MARCO RUBIO (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



114 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Market Shows Small Gains in Short Session

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The stock market ended slightly higher on Wednesday in a half-day session ahead of the Fourth of July holiday and Friday's government report on the job market. 
The three main stock indexes seesawed on thin trading volume, with some traders already away before the holiday. The stock market, which is closed on Thursday, will reopen on Friday for a full session.
Mixed economic data on Wednesday failed to give the market a solid direction. Private sector employers stepped up their hiring in June and weekly initial claims for unemployment benefits fell, but the growth rate in the services sector slowed in June and the United States trade deficit widened on a drop in exports.
''The only explanation that there is to the volatility is that the volume's really light, so any sudden moves in sentiment, whether it's buy or sell, reflects itself in the volatility because there's not a lot of liquidity,'' said Jason Weisberg, managing director at Seaport Securities.
About 3.37 billion shares exchanged hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq and NYSE MKT. The full trading-day average volume has been about 6.4 billion so far this year.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose 56.14 points or 0.38 percent, to close at 14,988.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index edged up 1.33 points, to 1,615.41. The Nasdaq composite index added 10.27 points, or 0.30 percent, to 3,443.67.
Large-capitalization technology stocks were among the strongest of the day, helping the Nasdaq. Cisco Systems rose 1.1 percent to $24.59 while Oracle gained 2 percent to $30.70.
Crude oil prices rose 1.64 percent to $101.24 a barrel after hitting a 14-month high above $102 a barrel on a sharp decline in crude stockpiles in the United States and political unrest in Egypt.
Health providers were in focus on Wall Street after the Obama administration said it would not require employers to provide health insurance for their workers until 2015, delaying a crucial provision of the health care law by a year.
Tenet Healthcare fell 4.3 percent to $43.64. Universal Health Services dropped 3.5 percent to $65.82.
In the bond market, interest rates moved higher. The 10-year Treasury note fell 8/32, to 93 15/32, while its yield rose to 2.50 percent, from 2.47 percent late Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (85%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (75%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (67%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (66%); PRICE INCREASES (65%); HEALTH CARE LAW (61%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%)

COMPANY: NYSE MKT LLC (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (53%); UNIVERSAL HEALTH SERVICES INC (51%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (53%); UHS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (53%); NAICS622210 PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE HOSPITALS (51%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (51%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



115 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: China Says Foreign Makers of Baby Formula May Be Fixing Prices

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG; David Barboza contributed reporting from Shanghai, and Shi Da contributed research from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Chinese government is investigating possible price fixing by foreign companies that produce infant milk powder for Chinese consumers, according to reports this week by the state news media.
Targets of the investigation include some of the largest foreign producers, including Nestlé of Switzerland, Danone of France and Mead Johnson Nutrition of the United States. A Danone representative said in an e-mail on Tuesday that Danone was cooperating with the investigation, and representatives of other companies have acknowledged the investigation to various news organizations.
Xinhua, the Chinese state news agency, reported on Tuesday that foreign companies were being investigated by the National Development and Reform Commission, an agency that helps set and execute economic policy. Xinhua said the foreign companies ''are believed to have manipulated and raised the price of baby formula in the China market.'' 
The report said the companies were suspected of retaliating against sellers in China who refused to raise their prices. The actions included imposing fines, halting the supply of the products and reducing available rebates, the Xinhua report said.
In mainland China, foreign-made infant milk powder can be more than twice as expensive as the same brands in Western countries, and costs much more than Chinese-made formula. Chinese who travel to Hong Kong or overseas often buy milk powder there. This has led the Hong Kong government to impose limits on the amount of milk powder that can be taken out by visitors. Some stores overseas limit sales.
Foreign milk powder surged in popularity in China after a 2008 scandal in which at least six infants died and 300,000 children fell ill after drinking domestic milk powder formula tainted with a toxic chemical, melamine. Virtually all major Chinese makers of milk powder were found to have tainted products.
The People's Daily, the official publication of the Communist Party, said in a commentary on Wednesday that since 2008, foreign milk powder companies had increased their prices in China by around 30 percent. Foreign milk powder has 60 percent of the market share in China, compared with 30 percent before 2008, the commentary said.
The Beijing Times reported Wednesday that about a dozen companies were under investigation, including some domestic ones. The newspaper cited an employee of the National Development and Reform Commission, saying, ''One of the goals is to lower the price.''
Since the enactment of an antimonopoly law in August 2008, Chinese government agencies have aggressively pursued some antitrust cases against foreign companies. A notable example was the rejection in 2009 of Coca-Cola's bid to buy the China Huiyuan Juice Group. At the time, the Commerce Ministry released a statement saying that the acquisition would have given Coca-Cola ''a dominating position in the domestic market.''
In January, Chinese regulators fined two South Korean companies, LG and Samsung, and four Taiwanese companies for fixing the prices of flat-panel screens sold to Chinese manufacturers. The companies were ordered to repay the equivalent of $27 million to Chinese customers and were fined a total of $22.8 million.
Some foreign business owners have questioned whether Chinese agencies are using the antimonopoly law to protect Chinese companies from foreign competition.
The People's Daily commentary said Chinese milk powder companies should take advantage of the investigation to focus on producing ''high-quality, low-cost products.''
''In fact, it is very possible for China-made milk powder to replace imported ones or even defeat their foreign counterparts and sell their products to the overseas market by improving the quality and regaining consumer confidence,'' it said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A market in Beijing. After 2008, when six babies died after drinking Chinese formula, prices for foreign-made products rose. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KIM KYUNG-HOON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BABY FOODS INDUSTRY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); DRY & CONDENSED DAIRY PRODUCT MFG (90%); INFANT FORMULA (90%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MILK (89%); PRICE FIXING (89%); CARTELS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); MARKET SHARE (87%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (84%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); MONOPOLIZATION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (51%)

COMPANY: DANONE SA (FRANCE) (84%); NESTLE SA (58%); MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION CO (58%); COCA-COLA CO (51%); CHINA HUIYUAN JUICE GROUP LTD (50%)

TICKER: DNN (BIT) (84%); BN (PAR) (84%); NESN (SWX) (58%); MJN (NYSE) (58%); KO (NYSE) (51%); 1886 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311511 FLUID MILK MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2037 FROZEN FRUITS, FRUIT JUICES, & VEGETABLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); SWITZERLAND (88%); TAIWAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



116 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Oregon Looks at Way to Attend College Now and Repay State Later

BYLINE: By RICHARD PÉREZ-PEÑA

 BODY:
Going to college can seem like a choice between impossibly high payments while in school or a crushing debt load for years afterward, but one state is experimenting with a third way.
This week, the Oregon Legislature approved a plan that could allow students to attend state colleges without paying tuition or taking out traditional loans. Instead, they would commit a small percentage of their future incomes to repaying the state; those who earn very little would pay very little.
The proposal faces a series of procedural and practical hurdles and will not go into effect for at least a few years, but it could point to a new direction in the long-running debate over how to cope with the rising cost of higher education. While the approach has been used in Australia, national education groups say they do not know of any university in the United States trying it. 
The Oregon plan had an unusual, and unusually swift, gestation. Less than a year ago, neither elected officials nor advocacy groups there had even considered it.
It began last fall in a class at Portland State University called ''Student Debt: Economics, Policy and Advocacy,'' taught by Barbara Dudley, a longtime political activist who teaches in the school of urban and public affairs, and Mary C. King, a professor of economics. Ms. Dudley was referred to John R. Burbank, executive director of the Economic Opportunity Institute, a liberal policy group based in Seattle, who had studied the no-tuition approach.
She, in turn, referred the students to him, and they adopted the idea as their group project for the semester.
The students and Ms. Dudley later made a presentation to state lawmakers, including state Representative Michael Dembrow, Democrat of Portland and chairman of the higher education committee. The Working Families Party of Oregon -- of which Ms. Dudley was a co-founder -- put the proposal at the top of its legislative agenda, and Mr. Dembrow and others ran with it.
''It's unbelievable that it's all happened so fast,'' one of the students, Ariel R. Gruver, said this week. ''We never imagined that we would actually accomplish something like this, and definitely not in such a short time.''
Lawmakers held hearings on the plan, debated amendments, and passed it, with the final vote taking place Monday in the State Senate. The Legislature's majorities are Democratic -- as is the governor, John Kitzhaber -- but the vote in both houses was unanimous. An aide to the governor said Mr. Kitzhaber was likely to sign the bill.
''When we talked to legislators, conservatives said it appealed to them because it's a contract between the student and the state, so they see it as a transaction, not as a grant,'' said Nathan E. Hunt, one of the students who proposed the plan.
The speed and unanimity offer a sharp contrast with Washington, where Democrats and Republicans have been unable to agree on a new law on federal student loans, resulting in the doubling of interest rates as of Monday.
''Everybody is concerned about the problem of student debt load and the rising cost of tuition,'' Mr. Dembrow said. ''Not everybody agrees on the causes, but everybody agrees on the effect. We all hear about it when we're knocking on doors, running for office.''
For many legislators, he added, the issue has become personal. ''It affects their kids, their grandkids,'' he said.
The bill instructs the state's Higher Education Coordinating Commission to design a pilot program, which would then require the Legislature's approval. For now, only the broadest outlines are clear.
The idea calls for the state to provide some money to get the program running -- how much would depend on how big the pilot is -- but that in the future, payments from former students would sustain it. The plan's supporters have estimated that for it to work, the state would have to take about 3 percent of a former student's earnings for 20 years, in the case of someone who earned a bachelor's degree.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TUITION FEES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); APPROVALS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LIBERALISM (71%); FAMILY (66%)

PERSON: JOHN KITZHABER (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (88%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (95%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AUSTRALIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



117 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1248 words

HEADLINE: Paid Sick Leave Laws Generate Concern, but Not Much Pain

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
Back in 2007, as a new paid sick leave law -- the first in the nation -- was about to take effect in San Francisco, Bill Stone was worried. Mr. Stone owns the Atlas Cafe in the city's Mission District, and the new law directed him to provide his 21 employees with one hour of paid time off for every 30 hours worked, up to nine days a year. ''Basically, it's just going to make it more expensive to operate your business,'' Mr. Stone told NPR at the time. ''Small business is going to have to pass that cost onto their customers.''
Six years later, Mr. Stone admits to having been a little alarmist about paid sick leave. ''As a small restaurant business, it's really hard to make money, and when they add another requirement, it makes you nervous,'' Mr. Stone said in a recent interview. ''But all and all, I actually think it's a good thing.'' 
This spring, paid sick leave came up for vigorous debate in cities around the country. Portland, Ore., passed a law in March, and New York followed suit last week when the City Council overrode a veto by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. In Philadelphia, sick-leave legislation died after Mayor Michael Nutter vetoed it. In each case, the same concerns about the bill -- that it is unnecessary and intrusive, and especially expensive and burdensome for small businesses -- have surfaced.
At a contentious six-hour New York City Council meeting in March, representatives of at least a dozen trade associations testified against the bill. Jay Peltz, representing independent grocers, called it ''a de facto annual $800 million tax increase.'' Those arguments appeared to carry the day in the half-dozen states that have passed laws this year prohibiting cities and towns from enacting their own sick-leave laws. But in San Francisco, the District of Columbia and the state of Connecticut, places that have had such laws in force for more than a year (Seattle adopted one in September), it can be difficult to find small-business owners who say they have been hampered by the law's obligations -- though some object in principle.
While the statutes vary by jurisdiction, most require a company to provide an hour of paid time off for every 30 to 40 or so hours worked by full- and part-time employees. The laws make allowances for small businesses, setting varying accrual rates or limits on the amount of paid time earned or exempting the smallest businesses altogether. (In New York, initially, businesses with fewer than 20 employees will have to provide unpaid leave, not paid leave.) Companies that offer an equivalent benefit, including vacation days that can be used as emergency time off, do not have to change their policies.
Before the law took effect in San Francisco, nearly two-thirds of all businesses there already provided the equivalent of paid time off, according to a 2011 study for the Institute for Women's Policy Research, which supports paid sick leave and other family-friendly laws. ''I don't remember when we didn't have paid sick leave,'' said Paul Cowden, who employs four people at Cowden Automotive, a San Francisco car repair shop he started in 1978. ''To me, it's a humane way to run a business. And I give my guys their time if they don't use it. I figure I'm making deposits in my karma bank.''
Among those companies that did have to put a new policy in place, about half reported that adopting and managing it was not difficult, according to the study. And many businesses fearful that paying for sick leave would drive up expenses have since reported that those concerns were unfounded. Richard Crain, who runs the Village Grill in San Francisco, said his nine employees were not sick that often. ''You have to give them one week per year,'' he said. ''But usually it's just a day or two here and there.''
Mr. Stone agreed, and said that paid sick leave increased his payroll costs by less than 1 percent. ''In retrospect,'' he said, ''it really hasn't been a big expense at all.''
That is not to say that no small businesses claim to have been affected by the law. Daniel Shackford, who operates Great Beginnings, a day care center in Plainville, Conn., said his payroll costs increased by $20,000 last year because of paid sick leave -- just over 2 percent. Under the new statewide law, which took effect early in 2012, when someone takes a day's leave, Mr. Shackford said, ''I now have to pay the temporary worker who comes in, as well as the person who's out sick. That either comes out of my pocket, or I have to charge my customers more.''
But because the law exempts smaller competitors as well as nonprofit organizations like the Y.M.C.A., said Mr. Shackford, who is a member of the Connecticut Business and Industry Association, a trade group that fought the law, ''it's pretty hard to raise my prices to cover this expense.''
''Businesses that are affected by the law don't like it,'' said Peter Gioia, a vice president and economist for the Connecticut trade group. Many companies already had their own version of a sick-time policy, he said. ''But this imposed a one-size-fits-all, union-type, strictly regulated set of procedures on everybody.''
Still, the number of businesses affected was limited in Connecticut, because the law was drawn narrowly. It applies only to companies with at least 50 workers, and manufacturers were excluded altogether. (New York City also exempted manufacturers.) Moreover, the Connecticut labor department has allowed business owners who have organized their ventures into individual legal entities to apply the 50-employee threshold to each entity.
For example, a restaurateur with six medium-size establishments might employ 200 or more people in total, but if each restaurant is established as its own business -- and this is common, according to Carmen Vacalebre, whose Carmen Anthony chain operates four restaurants in Connecticut -- the owner does not have to comply. Mr. Vacalebre said he provided sick leave only to his salaried employees. ''In the restaurant business, the hours are very flexible. If someone wants to trade hours, they do it every day,'' he said. ''My folks make a lot of money, but only when they work.''
Officials of the Connecticut trade group concede that, as written, the law applies to only about 8 percent of its members, and that many of these companies already have paid sick leave policies, or something similar, in place. Bob Davis, president and chief executive of Schulz Electric, a New Haven company that repairs industrial equipment, said he offered a generous vacation policy -- two weeks in the first year -- to attract talented workers. ''I belong to a number of different forums and industry groups,'' Mr. Davis said, ''and the way the law is written currently it doesn't affect any of the members.''
In Washington, which mandated paid sick leave in 2008, companies with fewer than 25 workers need to provide only as many as three days of sick leave a year. A report released in June by the District of Columbia's auditor found that nearly 90 percent of responding businesses said the law would not encourage them to move out of the city. Nearly a third of the businesses, however, said they did not offer paid sick leave to their employees, in apparent violation of the law.
Thomas Damato, an owner of the popular Restaurant Nora -- in the '90s, the Clintons dined there frequently -- said he was not aware of the obligation until he heard about it from a reporter. ''It's never been an issue, because we just pay for it,'' Mr. Damato said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Bill Stone, left, owner of a San Francisco cafe, said giving workers paid sick leave wasn't costly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DaSILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SICK LEAVE (93%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITIES (90%); VETO (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (89%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HOLIDAY & VACATION PAY (89%); RESTAURANTS (77%); TAX LAW (73%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); INTERVIEWS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



118 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: Crisis in Egypt

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Despite his failings, and there were plenty, President Mohamed Morsi was Egypt's first democratically elected leader, and his overthrow by the military on Wednesday was unquestionably a coup. It would be tragic if Egyptians allowed the 2011 revolution that overthrew the dictator Hosni Mubarak to end with this rejection of democracy. 
As Egyptians consider their future, one thing should be paramount: avoiding violence that could plunge the country into a civil war that could make Mr. Morsi's troubled term and overthrow look mild by comparison. In part, that would require making it clear that Mr. Morsi, the Muslim Brotherhood and Islamists in general will still have a place in any emerging new political order. Otherwise, any claims of Egyptian democracy are rendered moot. One only has to look to Iraq for how excluding major interest groups ensures continued strife.
There is somewhat of a contradiction in the embrace by Egypt's opposition forces of the military, which has wielded too much power since 1952. The military was the force behind Mr. Mubarak, then became the protesters' protector when Mr. Mubarak was overthrown. Subsequently, the generals became the interim government, only to incur the peoples' wrath when they proved inept at governing yet clung to power even after Mr. Morsi was elected. He eventually got the military to retreat from politics. Just how the generals will play the power game this time is unclear, but their prolonged rule would not bode well for Egypt's future.
The generals said in an announcement read on state television on Wednesday that they were suspending the constitution and installing an interim government, led by the chief of the constitutional court. The first test will be whether they allow top civilian and religious leaders to devise a way to replace that government with elections. The sooner, the better. All decisions should be transparent.
Throughout the day, the atmospherics were ominous and the risk of bloodshed real. The military deployed tanks and troops in Cairo and other cities. Thousands of the Mr. Morsi's supporters rallied near the presidential palace and many Islamists armed themselves with makeshift clubs and shields and plastic hard hats. A spokesman for the Muslim Brotherhood defiantly vowed that the group would ''stand in front of the tanks.'' By the end of the night, Mr. Morsi was in military custody and blocked from all communications, one of his advisers told The Times.
Fewer countries are more invested in Egypt than the United States, which relies on Cairo to uphold the 1979 peace treaty with Israel. Still, the Obama administration has little leverage over either Mr. Morsi or the opposition, which more often than not held Washington at arm's length. It has somewhat more influence with the military to whom it provides $1.3 billion in annual aid.
Given this complex dynamic, President Obama has reacted with appropriate caution to Mr. Morsi's ouster. In a statement, he expressed deep concern over the military's action, urged all sides to exercise restraint and reiterated that the United States takes no side except to support democracy and the rule of law. Mr. Obama was right to try and work with Mr. Morsi after he was elected and to withhold major economic or other new aid when he failed to work with the opposition. Under American law, Mr. Obama may have to withhold future aid if Egypt's democratic processes are not quickly restored.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: 2011 EGYPTIAN PROTESTS (90%); COUPS (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POLITICS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); RELIGION (70%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (73%) EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); ISRAEL (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



119 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; QUITO JOURNAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: Haven High on Beauty But Low on Tech

BYLINE: By WILLIAM NEUMAN

 BODY:
QUITO, Ecuador -- The only authorized dealer for Apple computers here, where the intelligence leaker Edward J. Snowden had hoped to take refuge, is called Mundomac. The name means WorldMac, but it is a pretty small world indeed. There are only three laptops and two desktop computers on display at the store in one of Quito's top malls, plus two iPads, an iPad mini and a couple of iPods. The tiny shop is nowhere near the size of one of Apple's flagship emporia in New York or other major cities.
''Computers, cellphones, Internet, all of those things, they're four or five years behind,'' Lars Pedersen, a Danish Web site designer who lives here, said of the state of technology in Ecuador. Then, standing outside the Mundomac store in the Quicentro Mall, he issued the ultimate techie put-down: ''They still think BlackBerrys are cool.'' 
The chances that Mr. Snowden will end up here -- or any other country, for that matter -- are growing more fleeting by the day. Of the 21 countries Mr. Snowden asked for asylum, only Venezuela and Bolivia appeared to offer him hope of escaping the international airport transit lounge at Sheremetyevo airport in Moscow, where he has been ensconced out of public view for nine days. Ecuador has said it will consider granting him asylum if he can get here, or to one of the country's embassies abroad.
In truth, however, this was never the ideal refuge for a technology geek addicted to his laptop -- Mr. Snowden was said to be horrified by the prospect of being imprisoned without access to a computer. He would very likely find life in tiny, beautiful, impoverished Ecuador a bit of an adjustment.
Internet speeds are not what they are back home. You can forget about smoothly streaming that cool new video on your iPhone. And there are no Starbucks.
''This Snowden guy is going to be very bored,'' said Mr. Pedersen, who runs a company that creates Web sites. But he offered a diversion: ''I'll give him a job if he comes here.''
And yet, while Ecuador may not be the Silicon Valley of the Andes, it has many things going for it, according to Americans and other foreigners who have settled here.
Most talked about the gorgeous landscapes and natural diversity, which ranges from Pacific beaches to snow-covered Andean peaks, green mountain valleys and the jungle of the Amazon basin, all packed into a country about the size of Nevada, with 15.4 million people.
In recent years, Ecuador has become a favorite of American retirees on a budget looking for a place to while away their golden years, and some of the same features that appeal to them may also be attractive to Mr. Snowden, the former National Security Agency contractor who is wanted in the United States on espionage charges.
International Living magazine has listed Ecuador as the top destination several years in a row for retirees looking to live abroad, citing its low cost of living, including inexpensive real estate and rents, and good, affordable medical care.
There is also plenty to make a homesick American feel more at home. Ecuador uses the dollar as its currency, having ''dollarized'' its economy in 2000 and dropped the national currency, the sucre, after a banking crisis and a period of high inflation in the 1990s.
While Quito has beautifully preserved colonial churches and other historic buildings, the country is chock-full of American chains. Sitting in Bigoté, a tea shop frequented by Americans in Cumbayá, a well-off suburb of Quito, one can look out at a panorama of shopping malls that include a McDonald's, a K.F.C., T.G.I. Friday's, a Payless Shoe Source, a Nike store and a Chevrolet dealership.
And despite the fact that he is wanted for espionage crimes by the United States and some politicians there have called him a traitor, if Mr. Snowden were to gain asylum here he seems likely to get a warm reception from many Americans.
''I would give him a high five and invite him to my house for dinner,'' said Robin Fink, 25, who is from California but has lived for about three years in Quito and volunteers for a group that advocates for women's health issues. ''What he did was heroic.''
''The less secrets the better,'' said Ronny Lane, 53, an Air Force veteran who did duty during the first Persian Gulf war and the war in Afghanistan, and came to live in Ecuador seven years ago after retiring from his job as an assistant fire chief in Mississippi. ''What is it he's outed? That the C.I.A.'s monitoring people? You'd have to be in a coma not to know that.''
Drinking with pals in a dark wood-paneled Cumbayá bar called St. Andrews, a copy of many suburban watering holes in the United States, Mr. Lane said that the American community in Ecuador tended to be fairly liberal, including a lot of ''retired college professors and nature-type people.'' Of Mr. Snowden, he said, ''No doubt in my mind, he'll fit in.''
Sipping from a glass of mineral water, Mr. Lane offered some advice for newcomers.
''When you come here, throw that gringo mentality out of your head,'' Mr. Lane said. He said the hardest thing for many new arrivals to accept was the pervasive corruption, like police officers soliciting bribes for minor traffic stops.
''Life here is not easy like it is in the United States,'' said Cody Leigh Brown, 30, the owner of the Bigoté tea shop, who is from Montana and has lived for four years in Ecuador (she would give Mr. Snowden a free lunch and coffee). ''You're going to miss a lot of the first-world concepts. We're used to big highways and people who obey traffic signals.''
But many Americans were also skeptical about Mr. Snowden's potential protector, President Rafael Correa, who will ultimately decide his asylum request and who recently signed a law that critics say restricts press freedom.
''It's just that he wants to put his finger in the eye of the U.S.,'' Mr. Lane said. ''It's hypocritical.''
As for Mr. Snowden's technological needs, the government has ambitions to make Ecuador a technology and science powerhouse. It plans to build a large research center called the City of Knowledge near Quito, the capital. But that is still years away.
In the 2013 Networked Readiness Index of the World Economic Forum, a measure of countries' development of the Internet and other technological capabilities, Ecuador ranked 91st out of 144 countries, although it was ahead of many of its South American neighbors, including Argentina, Bolivia and Venezuela (another country increasingly mentioned as a possible destination for Mr. Snowden).
Mr. Pedersen, the Web site designer, said that he takes frequent trips home to Denmark to immerse himself in technology culture, an option that presumably will not be available to Mr. Snowden. ''He'd have to stay here forever, and that's not supercool,'' Mr. Pedersen said. After a moment, he added, ''It's better than a U.S. jail, I guess.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 6, 2013

 CORRECTION:
The Quito Journal article on Thursday, about Ecuador's emergence as a possible haven for Edward J. Snowden, the fugitive American who leaked intelligence information, misstated the size of Ecuador relative to the size of Texas. Ecuador is smaller than Texas, not ''a little bit bigger.'' (Ecuador is closer to the size of Nevada.)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cody Leigh Brown, 30, a Montanan who moved to Ecuador four years ago, owns the Bigoté tea shop in a Quito suburb. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIDITH KOHUT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS: Ecuador is a favorite of American retirees on a budget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); PORTABLE MEDIA PLAYERS (76%); MOBILE MEDIA (76%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); AIRPORTS (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); MOUNTAINS (64%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (85%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%) ANDES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) ECUADOR (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); BOLIVIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



120 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 4, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: An Economic Primer for Spies

BYLINE: PETER BOONE and SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Economic espionage against friendly governments sows mistrust, and usually is just a waste of time and resources, two economists write 

 BODY:
Peter Boone is chairman of the charity Effective Intervention and a research associate at the Center for Economic Performance at the London School of Economics. He is also a director of Salute Capital Management Ltd. Simon Johnson is a professor at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. 
Listening in on BlackBerry communications by world leaders at a Group of 20 summit meeting, as theBritish did in April 2009, does not seem like a great way to build international trust and economic cooperation. Writing up the operation in PowerPoint and bragging about it in writing - such documents always leak - was pure Monty Python. 
This week, disclosures suggest the American intelligence services may be up to broadly similar tricks - with reports that the United States has bugged the communications of European diplomats stationed in Washington. The Europeans are America's allies, but also its competitors in important markets around the world. The goal seems to involve capturing some kind of economic secrets.
Most such espionage is a complete waste of time - and a good way to undermine relationships between countries. To help spies - and everyone else listening in on our phone calls - prioritize their use of scarce resources and do something constructive with their time, we offer this brief primer on where the intelligence services should focus their attention in the economic realm.
First, when, as in spring 2009, governments around the world want to engage in fiscal expansion, just get out of the way. Any one country's fiscal expansion will bolster its economy in the short run, increasing imports and thus also helping trading partners. In addition, fiscal expansion will tend to cause the expanding country's exchange rate to appreciate, as it implies interest rates that are higher than would otherwise be the case. Again, there will be little for other countries to complain about.

Countries tend to cooperate on fiscal expansions, for example in the face of global recession, and government leaders are happy to communicate their plans in public and in private. Spying on people in this environment is plain silly; just read any good newspaper's financial news.
Second, on trade negotiations - the potential target of United States-European Union spying - it is generally better to rely on what the various sides are willing to say.
To be sure, it may be entertaining to hear, for example, what France's allies think of its insistence on "cultural protections" for movies and the like. Intra-European negotiations could even make good reality TV show - of the new Norwegian variety (apparently very boring shows are a huge hit in Norway). But divisions among Europeans on any such issues are very much in the public domain. Again, just read the newspapers and relevant Web sites in French, German and as many other languages as you can manage.
Speaking about the major United States-European Union trade negotiations that loom, the E.U. commissioner for justice quite sensibly said this week,
We cannot negotiate over a big trans-Atlantic market if there is the slightest doubt that our partners are carrying out spying activities on the offices of our negotiators.
Developing global trade needs trust and cannot be sustained with subterfuge and coercion. This is the big lesson of the post-1945 world, a world shaped by American leadership and a general (not always perfect) sense of fair play.
Third, there is a perennially interesting set of questions regarding what various central banks will do next on monetary policy. Who will ease or tighten monetary policy is a big issue that moves markets - and keeps other parts of government, run by people seeking re-election, awake at night.
Any given expected moment of monetary easing (lower interest rates or more quantitative easing) tends to cause exchange-rate depreciation, which is good for the exports of the depreciating country - but not so good for trading partners.
Conversely, monetary tightening - all other things being equal - will tend to cause a strengthening of the exchange rate for the country with tightening policies. So United States government officials (and, for that matter, the Fed) might like to know if the European central bank will next ease or tighten. Such movements in the dollar-euro exchange rate can help or hurt the American economy (although reasonable people can differ on the precise mechanisms at work).
Spying on central banks would be informative, but more from a commercial perspective than for national security. Central bankers already share a great deal of sensitive information with one another, including at the highest level.
If non-central bankers learned about probable interest-rate movements, the temptation to trade on this information would be almost overwhelming, particularly for spies facing tighter budgets. It would also give governments a big and unfair advantage in dealing with market participants (e.g., on when to sell stakes in banks that have received capital injections or some other form of government rescue).
As James Bond remarks, somewhat sardonically, in his latest adventure, "Skyfall," after meeting his new quartermaster and technology guru, who looks as if he just graduated from university, it is a "brave new world." But just because you can hack into people's private communications does not mean you learn anything from that exercise - or that it is helpful to your cause.
Study some economics instead.

        
What Would It Take to Save Europe?
        
Ending Poverty by Giving the Poor Money
        
How the Revival of Postwar Germany Began
        
Multinational Corporations' Support for Big Banks Is Not Persuasive
        
Europeans Rate Their Neighbors

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ESPIONAGE (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); CHARITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EURO (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); EUROPEAN UNION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); INTEREST RATES (63%); EXCHANGE RATES (63%); REALITY TELEVISION (60%) Espionage and Intelligence Services; European Union; International Trade and World Market; United States International Relations; Today's Economist

COMPANY: RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (57%)

ORGANIZATION: European Union

TICKER: BBRY (NASDAQ) (57%); BB (TSX) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); NORWAY (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2013



121 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: European Central Bank to Keep Rates Low for 'Extended Period'

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- The European Central Bank said Thursday it would keep interest rates low ''for an extended period of time,'' an unprecedented commitment for an institution that had steadfastly refused to offer guidance on its future policy.
With the promise of easy money, Mario Draghi, the president of the E.C.B., offered more certainty to investors at a time when tensions in the euro zone are rising again. So-called forward guidance is considered one of the tools available to central banks, but one the E.C.B. had never used before. 
The E.C.B. kept its main rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, as expected. The relative calm in the euro zone has been threatened in recent weeks by a political crisis in Portugal, a rise in the risk premium that investors demand on bonds issued by Italy and other troubled countries, and reluctance by political leaders to take bold steps to build a stronger currency union.
The commitment to keep rates low may be intended to amplify the effect of the current low rate by reassuring investors that they can count on easy money for the foreseeable future. The statement may also be intended to counteract any effect in Europe from expectations that the U.S. Federal Reserve may gradually begin to tighten its monetary policy.
Mr. Draghi has in recent weeks stressed that policy makers were ready to take action if needed, but he and other members of the governing council have few obvious options left to stimulate the slumping euro zone economy.
''The bank has nothing more it can do within its institutional framework to help return the euro land economy to prosperity,'' Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, New York, wrote in a note to clients Wednesday.
Mr. Draghi has often stressed that E.C.B. anti-crisis measures could only buy time for political leaders to take action, for example by removing barriers to entrepreneurship in countries like Italy or cooperating more closely to fix ailing banks.
But now that fear of a euro zone breakup has ebbed, political leaders seem to have lost the will to address flaws in the currency union. An agreement by national leaders last month on a so-called banking union, designed to make the euro zone less prone to financial crises, fell short of what economists say is needed to deal with weak lenders and restore the flow of credit.
In recent days market borrowing costs for Italy and Spain have risen again, after a political crisis in Portugal raised questions about whether governments will be able to withstand public discontent about budget cutting and joblessness.
Further increases in government borrowing costs could test whether the E.C.B. can deliver on its promise last year to buy bonds of troubled countries if needed to eliminate fear of a euro zone breakup. Some analysts doubt whether the program could be deployed quickly in a crisis, since it requires countries to request help and agree to economic reforms and other conditions.
The E.C.B. appears unwilling to take more radical steps to stimulate the economy, such as massive, broad-based bond purchases similar to the quantitative easing used by the U.S. Federal Reserve or Bank of England. Already, the E.C.B. faces a legal challenge in Germany's Constitutional Court to the bond buying program and is probably reluctant to further alarm Germans fearful that they will wind up paying for problems in Italy and Spain.
The E.C.B.'s job is further complicated by signs that the Federal Reserve could begin to gradually roll back its economic stimulus in the United States. Expectations of tighter monetary policy in America have rattled financial markets in Europe, and Mr. Draghi may try to reassure investors that the E.C.B. is a long way from going in the same direction.
''President Draghi might note that contrary to market expectations the E.C.B. has not followed the strategy pursued by the Federal Open Market Committee in recent years,'' economists at Royal Bank of Scotland wrote in a note to investors earlier this week, referring to the Federal Reserve's policy-making panel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); EURO ZONE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BOND ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (68%); BUDGET CUTS (65%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); PORTUGAL (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



122 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: The Afghan Legacy

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Along with waging war in Afghanistan, the United States has worked to rebuild the country. But, after more than a decade and nearly $93 billion spent on reconstruction and security programs, there are still worrisome lapses in accountability, management and effectiveness.
The special inspector general on Afghan reconstruction, John Sopko, has cataloged the problems in a series of reports and concluded that some programs are actually working against American interests. While his aides say the mismanaged money is a small percentage of the overall spending, that still amounts to billions of dollars. These problems are persisting at a critical time when American forces are withdrawing from the country, and the United States has a diminishing opportunity to ensure programs and projects are designed and carried out in a way that puts Afghanistan on a firmer footing. 
Since Mr. Sopko was appointed last year, here are a few of the things that his office has discovered:
â- The Pentagon has proceeded with the purchase of aircraft costing $771.8 million (including 30 Russian helicopters) despite the fact that just 7 of 47 Afghan pilots assigned to the air force unit are fully qualified to fly counterterrorism missions, which is the primary objective. The unit has a quarter of the 806 personnel needed to operate at full strength, and there is no plan for reaching that goal. It will take the air unit at least 10 years to perform crucial maintenance and logistics tasks independently, in part because of the difficulty of finding recruits who are literate and don't have criminal records.
â- The inspector general's office is investigating charges against 52 prime contractors for failing to pay their subcontractors some $62 million. This has meant delayed projects, causing Afghan subcontractors to blame the United States for the nonpayments.
â- The office has also raised questions about weaknesses in Washington's efforts to avoid contracting with those who support the Taliban and its investment in projects, like hospitals, that Afghans cannot sustain.
A few months ago, Mr. Sopko asked the Pentagon, the State Department and the United States Agency for International Development for a list of their 10 most successful and least successful projects. In a critique released this week, he faulted some of their data and challenged some of their claims of progress.
For instance, the administration has cited advances in health care, noting that 60 percent of Afghans are within an hour walk of a health clinic compared with 9 percent in 2001. Mr. Sopko says this may be because more Afghans now live in cities where the clinics are located. And while the United States says life expectancy increased from 44 years to 60 years, he suggests such data were ''selectively chosen in order to emphasize progress'' and prefers a World Bank figure of 48 years. On the Pentagon claim that 194,000 Afghan national security forces have received some level of literacy training, he says the data provided don't prove that the effort has materially improved the overall literacy rate or battlefield effectiveness.
Senior officials at the United States Agency for International Development say Mr. Sopko's reports are too narrowly focused, ignore their efforts to monitor programs and give short shrift to their successes, like development of the energy sector in a difficult environment.
From the start, the United States has faced daunting challenges in Afghanistan, including violence, extreme poverty, corruption and President Hamid Karzai's fecklessness. President Obama's request for $3.4 billion more for Afghanistan in 2014 would put the pot forreconstruction available to spend at $20 billion. Before Congress approves additional financing, it needs to demand precise answers from the administration to the sensible questions that Mr. Sopko has posed about the need for effective oversight and meaningful measures of success.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TALIBAN (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); HEALTH CARE (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (72%); HELICOPTERS (67%); COUNTERTERRORISM (66%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (61%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



123 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: The Latest Assault on Bank Reform

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
When the Dodd-Frank financial reform law passed in 2010, President Obama said it would ''lay the foundation for a stronger and safer financial system.'' But that won't happen if the senators from New York, Charles Schumer and Kirsten Gillibrand, have anything to say about it. 
Recently, Mr. Schumer, Ms. Gillibrand and four other Democratic senators wrote to the Treasury secretary, Jacob Lew, seeking his help in shelving crucial ''cross-border'' guidelines on derivatives from the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. The guidance makes it clear that numerous new derivatives rules under the Dodd-Frank law apply to foreign affiliates of American banks and to foreign banks operating in the United States.
Without strong cross-border rules, derivatives regulation will be meaningless because big American banks that dominate the global market in derivatives will simply engage in risky trades and rank speculation abroad. When those risks and wagers go wrong, American institutions and American taxpayers will be on the hook -- again.
In the letter to Mr. Lew, the senators say that to avoid confusing the banks, the C.F.T.C. cross-border guidelines should not take effect until the Securities and Exchange Commission completes a separate set of derivatives rules. That is ridiculous. The C.F.T.C. oversees virtually all of the multitrillion-dollar derivatives market; the S.E.C. a relative sliver. The C.F.T.C. has diligently issued its required rules under the Dodd-Frank law over the past three years and has set a deadline of July 12 to put the cross-border guidelines into effect. The S.E.C. first got around to issuing a pathetically weak derivatives proposal in May.
Equally important, the law specifically requires the C.F.T.C. to apply its rules to derivatives trades that ''have a direct and significant connection'' to commerce in the United States. The law does not require the S.E.C. to issue any such cross-border rules. If the C.F.T.C. waited for the S.E.C., what would it be waiting for?
Then again, indefinite delay -- which would preserve a status quo that benefits the banks -- is, in effect, what the senators are advocating.
The letter goes on to make the unfounded assertion that derivatives can be effectively regulated only by international agreement. But when failed derivatives bets rocked the global financial system in the crisis, the United States bailed out American and European banks alike. Banks recovered, but the economic damage persists. The United States should lead in reform, as the C.F.T.C. is trying to do. It should neither wait for the S.E.C. nor outsource the job to regulators in other countries, where derivative rules are weak or nonexistent.
Mr. Schumer, Ms. Gillibrand and their four colleagues are not only going against lawmakers in their own party, most of whom have resisted attempts to delay the cross-border rules. They are also going against the cause of reform, lobbying for delays that would derail the law.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); FUTURES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); OUTSOURCING (65%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (90%); KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (77%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



124 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: Downtown Vibe Is Latest Vision For Las Vegas

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
LAS VEGAS -- Tony Hsieh didn't look much like a modern-day Bugsy Siegel. Wearing backpack, T-shirt and jeans, standing outside a downtown bar, he patrolled his future empire along East Fremont Street here one sweltering morning.
But the flamboyant Siegel changed this city for good when he built the Flamingo Hotel, the first luxury casino on the Strip. Now Mr. Hsieh, a soft-spoken 39-year-old Internet billionaire who runs Zappos, the online clothing store, plans to do something as transformative. It's a classic American dream: a Western-scale roll of the dice in a city that suddenly conjured up Belle Époque Paris and ancient Rome out of the desert. The idea this time is to build a version of the Mission district in San Francisco or the Williamsburg section of Brooklyn in downtown Vegas.
Mr. Hsieh (pronounced shay) is relocating Zappos headquarters from Henderson, Nev., about 16 miles away, and investing hundreds of millions of his own dollars to retrofit downtown with, well, a downtown, in line with the latest trends. 
I came to check out the progress. There's not much to see yet, but his $350 million Downtown Project -- a mix of investments, acquisitions and loans -- envisions blocks and blocks of community-based, pedestrian-friendly, small-business-oriented, high-density, high-tech urbanism in long-depressed and troubled neighborhoods. Zappos will take over the decrepit old City Hall. That gesture alone, salvaging a local landmark, has endeared Mr. Hsieh to many in Las Vegas.
We spoke briefly the other night in the Gold Spike, a former casino near City Hall whose gambling room he stripped and converted into a chic slots-free bar and chill space. He took me to the empty motel he bought next-door, where, he speculated, a modeling agency and photography studio could take over what used to be a few of the poolside guest rooms.
On nearby blocks, which he has also gobbled up, the Downtown Project would seed tech start-ups, boutiques, mom-and-pop restaurants and bars; the world's largest Airstream trailer park; a playground and geodesic dome; a complex of recording studios; a charter school; a doggy day care; a bike share program, even a Tesla electric car share, along with theaters for TED Talk-like lecturers and music festivals.
There's no designer-led master plan, no single billion-dollar construction project, no star architect. The concept is top-down but preaches piecemeal, bottom-up development and reuse. It exploits a picturesque supply of abandoned flop houses, vacant offices and collapsing warehouses, capitalizing on a growing desire among young Americans for urban life: an anti-Strip vision of America.
Out on the Strip, MGM opened CityCenter in 2009, a $7.8 billion luxury development and celebrity-architect petting zoo, which in a sense is the same concept, but pegged as a theme park for tourists. I got a peek the other day. It's a smart and sleek attraction; business has been improving. CityCenter and the Downtown Project are both visions for evolving the same city.
But unlike MGM's development, which opened in the midst of the housing collapse, Mr. Hsieh's timing could hardly have been better. The local economy, devastated when the bubble burst, is limping back. The population (increasingly young Asians and Hispanics) keeps rising, and wealthy out-of-towners prop up the high end of the housing market. Most properties are still under water, and the city is down 100,000 construction jobs from pre-recession highs, but the picture isn't as bleak, or straightforward, as four years ago.
At the same time, Las Vegas suffers the pitfalls of being a one-industry town. Baked into its economy are minimal taxes and a state government inclined to ship much of what Las Vegas contributes to the rest of Nevada, which, among other consequences, insures the school system is perennially poor. Casino moguls, needing a steady supply of parking attendants, hotel maids and blackjack dealers, not college-educated workers, were once fine with that. But times are changing. Now the lack of good public schools and downtown amenities -- demanded by those mobile and educated young Americans other cities are competing to attract -- has become a liability.
On top of which, Las Vegans I spoke with, young and old, complained about not having ''enough authentic places,'' which are ''locally owned, one of a kind, less corporate,'' as Tyler Jones, a 35-year-old architect-developer of luxury homes and third-generation Las Vegan, put it to me. They wanted a Las Vegas for Las Vegans.
Which is where Tony Hsieh comes in.
Downtown began to decline by the 1960s. The casinos, department stores and middle-class homeowners fled south to the Strip, seizing upon cheap and plentiful land. During the 1990s, the Fremont Experience turned five desperate blocks of what used to be the heart of the downtown gambling scene into a pedestrian concourse beneath a lighted canopy that pulled in low-end tourists but few jobs or residents. It's now a blighted attraction. Neonopolis arrived in 2002, a retail and entertainment mall, which soon went belly up, leaving a fortress-size hole amid the pawn shops and homeless shelters.
Since then, there has been progress. The Cleveland Clinic Lou Ruvo Center for Brain Health, designed by Frank Gehry, opened downtown in 2010; the popular Smith Center for the Performing Arts, a $485 million project, last year; along with a new City Hall. And back in 2007, a small bohemian speakeasy called the Downtown Cocktail Room opened on the corner of Fremont and Las Vegas Boulevard, once the main intersection. Hanging out in the Cocktail Room a few years ago, Mr. Hsieh began to picture a different vision for the neighborhood: as an affordable locus for upscale young adults, having little or nothing to do with gambling.
In some ways, the most fascinating aspect of this vision is the relocation of Zappos. Moving its headquarters downtown represents a pointed alternative to the multibillion-dollar suburban office parks that Google and Apple are building in Silicon Valley, notwithstanding that so many of their own employees want to live in, and commute from, San Francisco. Mr. Hsieh has bought into the solid notion that chance encounters on the street or at a club -- urban collisions -- spark innovation: cities, inherently, nurture the economy and culture.
It's a gentrifying idea that comes at the cost of displacing some existing businesses whose owners say downtown Las Vegas wasn't a blank slate. Critics like Joel Kotkin, a fellow of Urban Futures at Chapman University, have told The Las Vegas Review-Journal that Mr. Hsieh's project commits tax dollars (by, for instance, helping finance Zappos's purchase of the old City Hall) that might otherwise be spent on training programs or buses.
But then there's Eat. I stopped by at lunchtime. It's the antithesis of the celebrity chef chains on the Strip -- more like some neighborhood hot spot you'd stumble across in Austin, Tex. Natalie Young, the chef and owner, having grown tired of her job on the Strip, opened the place with a no-interest $225,000 loan from the Downtown Project. When she fell behind on her apartment rent, according to The Review-Journal, she called Michael Cornthwaite, a friend, who owns the Cocktail Room. His wife showed up at Ms. Young's door with a check. Eat has since been hopping. That story encapsulates the sort of communal entrepreneurship that Mr. Hsieh hopes to inspire.
I toured the East Fremont district with Don Welch, one of Mr. Hsieh's partners, who talked in the dreamy, assured way developers do about filling blocks and blocks of vacant land in the next few years with a bustle of businesses and people.
We'll see. Short term, success depends on Mr. Hsieh's running the table, investment-wise. A range of business leaders, local converts to civic diversification, not just from the gambling industry, hopes he does. Long term, success will depend on a broader vision, which incorporates downtown casinos that have reinvested in themselves like the El Cortez, along with establishments that haven't. And new development will need to be integrated with existing schools, homeless shelters and convenience stores, so the city doesn't simply end up with an isolated hipster office park.
That Caesars Entertainment on the Strip is also retrofitting urban-style streetscapes for tourists suggests Mr. Hsieh's project is making some waves. It's in contrast to the marooned, star-architect-driven mega-developments like the Smith Center, which are, so far, poorly knitted into the fabric of downtown streets. Mr. Hsieh isn't himself thinking in terms of new architecture yet; he's repurposing vernacular buildings, though the project, in its open-endedness, would seem to present an opportunity for resourceful architects to pitch the virtues of inventive new design.
Hard as it may be not to feel skeptical, the small-scale civic principles are solid. And sometimes a single determined mogul is just what a struggling city needs.
It wouldn't be the first time that Las Vegas was remade by one.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tony Hsieh, the chief executive of Zappos, in Henderson, Nev. Mr. Hsieh is determined to revitalize downtown Las Vegas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); GAMING (89%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); DRINKING PLACES (72%); TRENDS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); CLASSICS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); STARTUPS (67%); TRAILER PARKS (65%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (62%); FESTIVALS (60%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); PET CARE SERVICES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%)

PERSON: TONY HSIEH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (77%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



125 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: South and North Korea Agree to Discuss Shared Industrial Park

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South and North Korea agreed Thursday to meet later this week to discuss reopening a jointly operated industrial complex, three weeks after their last effort to start a dialogue collapsed amid mutual recriminations. 
If the meeting, scheduled for Saturday at the border village of Panmunjom, takes place as planned, it would provide the two Koreas with an opportunity to move toward a thaw after years of tensions that hit a peak this year, when the North's third nuclear test led to international sanctions and the North issued a stream of threats against the South and its ally, the United States.
North and South Korea have bickered over the fate of the Kaesong industrial park, in the North Korean border town of the same name, ever since the North pulled out all 53,000 of its workers from the complex in April, citing military tensions it said stemmed from joint American-South Korean military exercises at the time.
The owners of 123 South Korean factories who had withdrawn from Kaesong after their North Korean workers deserted them have been eager to return there. Their hopes rose, then crashed after the two governments first agreed to hold senior-level talks in the South Korean capital, Seoul, on June 12, but canceled them in a last-minute dispute over who should lead their delegations.
The meeting planned for Saturday involved lower-ranking government representatives and was confined to discussing the fate of the factory park. But if the two sides agree to reopen it, such a move could be a start for the ''trust-building process'' South Korea has insisted upon as a prerequisite for improving ties further with the North.
The most contentious question in the planned talks will be the conditions imposed on the reopening of the factory park. The South insists that it will not reopen it unless the North takes steps to ensure that it will not sacrifice economic projects for political ends.
On Wednesday, some of the factory owners said they could no longer wait and demanded that the two Korean governments let them return to Kaesong so they could disassemble their manufacturing facilities and move them to South Korea or elsewhere in Asia.
That prompted the North to open a cross-border communications hot line on Wednesday and invite South Korean factory owners and engineers to return to Kaesong to do maintenance work on their equipment before the possible reopening of the complex. Factory owners have warned that their facilities will begin deteriorating soon, as the rainy season has just started.
On Thursday, South Korea made a counterproposal for official dialogue, insisting that the fate of the factory park should first be discussed between the two governments. The North accepted it.
The Kaesong complex, where textile and other labor-intensive factories from South Korea had hired low-cost North Korean workers, had been the best-known among a handful of joint projects, introduced during a period of inter-Korean rapprochement between 1998 and 2008. All those projects were suspended as relations deteriorated in the past few years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (91%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



126 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1421 words

HEADLINE: A Deficit Lover With a Following

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
CHRISTIANSTED, V.I. -- Warren Mosler is a card-carrying member of the 1 percent. A deeply tanned, tennis-lean hedge fund executive, Mr. Mosler lives on this run-down but jewel-toned Caribbean island for tax reasons. Transitioning into an active retirement, he recently designed and had built an $850,000 catamaran called Knot My Problem. He whizzes around St. Croix in a white, low-slung sports car he created himself, too.
But his prescriptions for economic policy make him sound like a warrior for the 99 percent. When the recession hit, Mr. Mosler said, the government should have spent and spent until unemployment came down to a comfortable level. Forget saving the banks through the Troubled Asset Relief Program. Washington should have eliminated the payroll tax, given every state $500 per resident and offered a basic job to anyone who wanted one.
''There would have been no recession,'' Mr. Mosler, 63, said over a salad at a hole-in-the-wall seaside cafe called Rum Runners. 
Washington's debts would have soared, of course. But Mr. Mosler sees no problem with that. A failed Senate candidate in Connecticut with unorthodox but attention-grabbing economic theories, he says he believes the United States should be running much bigger deficits and that the last thing the government needs to worry about is balancing its budget.
Mr. Mosler's ideas, which go under the label of ''modern monetary theory,'' or M.M.T., are clearly on the fringe, drawing skeptical reactions even from many liberal Keynesian economists who agree with some of his arguments. But they have attracted a growing following, flourishing on the Internet and in a handful of academic outposts, as he and others who share his thinking have made the case that austerity budgeting in the United States and in Europe is doing irreparable harm.
Like many Keynesian economists, Mr. Mosler and other modern monetary theorists are particularly disturbed by the longstanding campaign articulated and financed by Peter G. Peterson, a former commerce secretary who co-founded the Blackstone Group private equity fund, to reduce the deficit or else.
''There's a whole deficit lobby of Peterson-funded groups arguing we're turning into Greece,'' said James K. Galbraith, an economist at the University of Texas at Austin. ''They're blowing smoke and the M.M.T. group has patiently explained why.''
Still, even for those with some knowledge of economics, the tenets of the modern monetary theory can make your head spin. The government does not tax its citizens to pay for federal spending. It taxes them to ensure they use the dollar and to help to regulate demand. Since the government prints the dollar, it can never run out of money and it need never balance its budget, not even to prevent the crowding out of private investment when the economy is humming along.
What about inflation? ''What about it?'' Mr. Mosler replied. ''How can the United States have $16 trillion in debt and still be on the verge of deflation, even when Chairman Bernanke's using every alphabet-soup trick in his book?''
To mainstream economists, Mr. Mosler and his adherents represent something of a counterpoint to the handful of academics on the right who believe the United States should return to the gold standard because the government is supposedly going bankrupt and the Federal Reserve under Ben S. Bernanke is debasing the currency.
''They deny the fact that the government use of real resources can drive the real interest rate up,'' said Mark Thoma, an economics professor and widely followed blogger who teaches at the University of Oregon. After delving into the technical details of modern monetary theory for a few minutes, he paused, then added, ''I think it's just nuts.''
But just as a return to the gold standard has attracted a popular following -- including many supporters of Ron Paul, the charismatic former Texas congressman -- so has modern monetary theory, which has been spread on the great stage of the Web. A thriving academic blogosphere brings ideas up and knocks them down, and popular sites like Business Insider and Naked Capitalism have given modern monetary theorists a platform to join in.
''These ideas definitely aren't disseminated through published academic journals,'' said Stephanie Kelton, an economist at University of Missouri-Kansas City, who coined the term ''deficit owls'' to distinguish modern monetary theorists from ''deficit hawks.'' ''It's all on the Internet.''
Mr. Mosler has played a pivotal role in promoting the theory, and unlike many economists he has the resources to do so. He runs a popular blog called the Center of the Universe, a sly joke, perhaps, given that tiny, tropical St. Croix, which is about 1,200 miles from Miami, is the easternmost point in the United States. He eagerly appears on radio programs and on television. Recently, he went on a tour of Italy to promote his anti-austerity ideas.
He has also helped to build an infrastructure to mint new modern monetary theorists, helping to found the Center for Full Employment and Price Stability at the University of Missouri-Kansas City, and financing a small army of graduate students. ''Someone once said that economics advances one funeral at a time,'' Mr. Mosler said, chuckling. ''The hope is that we have a generation of economists coming up who really understand how things work and can put those ideas to a public purpose.''
There were also a few self-financed political campaigns, including some fruitless races in the Virgin Islands. In his 2012 run, Mr. Mosler said he believed the voting was rigged. He made a vanity run for Senate in Connecticut in 2010 as an independent, making waves by offering to use $100 million of his own money to pay down the deficit if any member of Congress could prove that government spending was actually constrained by tax revenue. He came in third, with about 1 percent of the vote. ''It was a mistake,'' Mr. Mosler said of running in Connecticut. ''It did get the ideas out there, though.''
Mr. Mosler started his career at a small bank in Connecticut, and eventually became a Wall Street trader. It was there, he said, that he developed an intuitive understanding of how the economy works -- one very different from that of policy makers in Washington and the vast bulk of academics.
''All debt management is, is debiting and crediting different accounts,'' Mr. Mosler said, recalling seeing numbers appear and disappear from his computer at Bankers Trust in New York in the 1970s. ''Can the federal government run out of dollars? No, because the Fed could pipe in a bigger number. That number doesn't come from anywhere. It's like when a player scores a field goal at a stadium. Three points just appear. The government is just the scorekeeper for the dollar.''
In the early 1980s, he left Wall Street and along with a partner, Clifford Viner, who is now the owner of the Florida Panthers hockey team, founded a hedge fund in Boca Raton, Fla. The fund made relatively few, relatively complicated financial bets, said Michael Reger, a partner of Mr. Mosler's for the last 20 years. ''He's an urban myth,'' Mr. Reger said of the affable, talkative and bookish Mr. Mosler.
Mr. Mosler's fund has made a number of bets informed by his theory. For instance, Mr. Reger said, when the Treasury was paying down the United States debt during the Clinton years, many bond traders thought that prices would spike because of increasing scarcity. But Mr. Mosler predicted that no such scarcity would ever materialize, and shorted the bonds.
That trade panned out, though others have not. The business lost hundreds of millions of dollars betting that Russia would not default on its debts. That country's fixed exchange rate spurred it to go belly up, Mr. Mosler said.
On the side, he ran Mosler Automotive, which created several dozen low-slung, lightweight, superfast sports cars over its nearly 30 years in business. That passion project never quite worked out, he said, and he is now in the process of selling it off. ''The Consulier got named one of the 50 worst cars ever made by Time magazine,'' he said with a laugh. ''Look it up!''
But entering retirement, Mr. Mosler has more than enough work to do promoting his monetary theories, he said.
''Economics is about the allocation of scarce resources,'' Mr. Mosler said. ''If there's a food shortage, you have a real problem in divvying up the food. Right now, we have a dollar shortage because of mistaken notions about how the monetary system works. How does that make any sense?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Warren Mosler and adherents of modern monetary theory, called deficit owls, are seen as a counterpoint to those who want to return to the gold standard. (B1)
 Warren Mosler, who lives in St. Croix, V.I., started his career at a small bank in Connecticut, became a Wall Street trader and in 2010 ran for Senate in Connecticut as an independent. In the 1980s he designed a fuel-efficient car, the Consulier, left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (78%); RUNNING (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LOBBYING (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); US DOLLAR (74%); PRIVATE EQUITY (73%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (69%); CORPORATE TAX (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (56%)

COMPANY: BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (52%)

TICKER: BX (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (54%); PETE PETERSON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (91%); GREECE (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



127 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: A Coup? Or Something Else? $1.5 Billion in U.S. Aid Is on the Line

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- By all accounts, the generals removed the democratically elected president, put him in detention, arrested his allies and suspended the Constitution. Army vehicles and soldiers in riot gear roamed the streets, while jet fighters roared overhead.
But was it a military coup d'état? For the White House and the new Egyptian government, that is the $1.5 billion question.
President Obama's government on Thursday was reviewing the implications for American aid to Egypt after the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi, and under United States law it has no choice but to cut off financial assistance to the country if it determines that he was deposed in a military coup. Egyptian officials quickly argued that what happened was not a coup but a popular uprising.
For the moment, Mr. Obama seemed content to let the debate play out in hopes of using the possibility of an aid cutoff to influence the situation without actually pulling the trigger yet. In his only public statement since Mr. Morsi's ouster, Mr. Obama carefully avoided using the ''c-word,'' as some in Washington termed it, although his description of events certainly sounded couplike. But aides made clear that he would escalate his response depending on where the Egyptian military went from here. 
The question goes to the heart of Mr. Obama's handling of Egypt. As one of the largest recipients of American aid, Egypt has long depended on Washington's beneficence, and the Obama administration, like its predecessors, has been reluctant to shut off the spigot, to keep the country committed to its longstanding peace agreement with Israel. While the White House doubted that the military's seizure of power would be quickly reversed, it hoped to use its aid leverage to avoid violence.
But some specialists said the aid cutoff provision should be invoked promptly. ''The law is there for a reason,'' said Tamara Cofman Wittes, the director of the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution and a former State Department official under Mr. Obama. ''It's there to incentivize governments that came in place through military coup to go back to democratic rule as soon as possible.''
In Cairo, opponents of Mr. Morsi argued that his ouster did not qualify as a military coup because it came only after millions of protesters took to the streets, an argument quickly adopted by the government. ''It's not a coup because the military did not take power,'' Mohamed Tawfik, the Egyptian ambassador in Washington, told Foreign Policy magazine. ''The military did not initiate it. It was a popular uprising. The military stepped in in order to avoid violence.''
But the government's move to arrest dozens of members of the Muslim Brotherhood, including its leader, Mohamed Badie, and his influential deputy, Khairat el-Shater, could test that argument.
''With the entire world calling this a coup, why isn't the American administration calling it so?'' asked Wael Haddara, a senior adviser to Mr. Morsi. The administration's ''verbal acrobatics,'' he added, denied the obvious. ''What is a coup?'' he said. ''We're going to get into some really Orwellian stuff here.''
At stake is a lot of money. Since 1979, Egypt has been the second-largest recipient of American aid after Israel. Mr. Obama's budget for the fiscal year starting Oct. 1 proposes $1.55 billion for Egypt, with $1.3 billion for the military and $250 million for economic aid.
The Foreign Assistance Act says no aid other than that for democracy promotion can go to ''any country whose duly elected head of government is deposed by military coup d'état,'' or where ''the military plays a decisive role'' in a coup. The law allows no presidential waiver, and it says that aid cannot be restored until ''a democratically elected government has taken office.''
As a practical matter, there would be little immediate impact if Mr. Obama concluded that the crisis constituted a coup, because Washington disbursed this year's military aid in May and presumably would not deliver more until next winter or spring. But it would convulse a relationship long predicated on the flow of American money.
''The law by its terms dictates one thing, and sensible policy dictates that we don't do that,'' said Howard Berman, a Democrat who is a former chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. ''That's why the executive branch gets to decide whether it's a coup or not. Under the plain meaning rule, there was a coup.'' But with regard to aid, he added, ''I wouldn't cut it off,'' and he urged the administration to ''be more assertive'' in using it to press Egyptian officials to protect or restore freedoms.
Washington cut off aid in the past after military officers overthrew civilian governments in Ivory Coast, the Central African Republic, Fiji and, at one point, Pakistan. More recently, and more relevantly, the Obama administration declined to see a coup when the Egyptian military helped push out the longtime president Hosni Mubarak in 2011, a move that likewise had broad popular support.
But Mr. Mubarak had never been the choice of a genuinely free election, while Mr. Morsi's subsequent election, although disturbing to many in Washington because of his affiliation with the Muslim Brotherhood, was widely deemed democratic, even if some of his actions in office were not.
''Military coups are often driven by popular mobilization and received by popular acclaim, but this does not change what they are,'' said Marc Lynch, a Middle East scholar at George Washington University. ''It is possible, of course, that this will be the sort of coup which 'resets' the political arena and quickly restores civilian rule. The military can't help but to have learned the lessons of 2011 when their direct rule went so badly. But it's still a coup.''
The process of determining whether a coup is a coup usually falls to the State Department's legal adviser, and it can take weeks or even, as with Honduras in 2009, months. ''State might be able to avoid sanctions by finding that a civilian government (the judge) is still in control, although that would appear to be a stretch,'' John B. Bellinger III, who held that job under President George W. Bush, said by e-mail.
In the meantime, the White House may not come under much pressure from Congress to cut off assistance. While Senator Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont and the head of a foreign aid subcommittee, said he would ''review future aid to the Egyptian government,'' other Congressional leaders expressed little appetite for that, in part because the Muslim Brotherhood is not a favorite in Washington.
''Our longstanding cooperation with Egypt, which is essential for stability in the region, should remain a priority,'' Senator Bob Corker of Tennessee, the ranking Republican on the Foreign Relations Committee, said in a statement.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); COUPS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RIOTS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (66%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (62%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MOHAMMED MORSI (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (77%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



128 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Bank of England Comments Send the Pound Lower

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER

 BODY:
LONDON -- Barely four days in the job, Mark J. Carney, the new Bank of England governor, is already having an impact on markets here.
The pound dropped about 1.3 percent against the dollar and also fell against other major currencies on Thursday after the central bank said that any expectations that interest rates would rise soon from their current record-low level were misguided.
The statement, issued along with the bank's monthly interest rate announcement, was itself a departure from previous practice and showed that Mr. Carney, who became governor on Monday, is already making his mark on procedures. 
''The drop in the pound is byproduct of the comments, and the market reaction indicates just how eager it is for comments from the new regime,'' Peter Dixon, an economist at Commerzbank, said.
The central bank decided to leave its main rate at 0.5 percent and also held its program of economic stimulus at £375 billion, or $570 billion. Recent data from the services and manufacturing industries had surprised some economists by showing faster rates of growth.
The bank said it decided to keep stimulus and the interest rate unchanged as ''there have been further signs that a recovery is in train, although it remains weak by historical standards and a degree of slack is expected to persist for some time.''
''In the committee's view, the implied rise in the expected future path of bank rate was not warranted by the recent developments in the domestic economy,'' the bank said.
Mr. Carney, a Canadian who succeeded Mervyn A. King as governor, is expected to communicate more clearly than his predecessor which steps the central bank might take to spur growth. The former governor of Canada's central bank has also said he is a supporter of U.S. Federal Reserve-like guidance for how long interest rates may remain unchanged to give greater certainty to borrowers.
Many economists expect that Mr. Carney voted in favor of more quantitative easing, the Bank of England's bond-buying program, at the two-day rate-setting meeting that started on Wednesday. But they also expect that he was outvoted, just as Mr. King was last month, amid some timid signs that a recovery is taking shape. The central bank will release minutes of the current meeting next month.
After barely avoiding a triple-dip recession this year, the British economy showed signs of improvement in June. The services sector unexpectedly grew at its fastest pace in more than two years, according to data from Markit Economics and the Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply. The manufacturing and construction industry also improved last month.
The housing market also showed signs of continued improvement. Approvals for home loans granted by banks rose more than expected to the highest level since 2009 in May, according to figures provided by the Bank of England. The average price for a home continued to increase in June, led by London, according to Hometrack, a research concern.
''The data has been stunningly good,'' David Tinsley, an economist at BNP Paribas in London, said before the announcement Thursday. But he also said that it was too early to say the worst was over for the British economy and that he expected the Bank of England to expand its stimulus program in the future. ''The situation is probably still more fragile than it appears,'' he said.
Economic growth is still expected to remain weak as long as troubles on the Continent, Britain's largest export market, persist and austerity measures continue to be a drag on the recovery. George Osborne, the chancellor of the Exchequer and the architect of Britain's austerity program, last month announced additional spending cuts, including more public sector job cuts.
Real disposable household income fell 1.7 percent in the first three months of this year, the biggest drop since 1987, according to the Office for National Statistics. Inflation continues to hover above the central bank's 2 percent target at 2.7 percent just as many consumers had their salaries frozen.
In another sign that not all is well among British consumers, Nicole Farhi, the upmarket fashion label, filed for a form of bankruptcy protection on Wednesday, the latest British retailer to face serious trouble as demand dwindles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BRITISH POUND (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); RECESSION (77%); STATISTICS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (65%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); COMMERZBANK AG (58%)

TICKER: CZB (LSE) (58%); CBK (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



129 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: 2 Central Banks Promise to Keep Rates Low

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and JULIA WERDIGIER; Jack Ewing reported from Frankfurt, and Julia Werdigier from London.

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- Answering critics who said they were running out of ways to promote growth and lending, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England on Thursday did something neither had done before, committing themselves to keeping interest rates low indefinitely.
The bid to reassure investors brought the two central banks into closer alignment with the Federal Reserve, which, under Chairman Ben S. Bernanke, has become more open about its intentions.
At the same time, they appeared eager to signal that they would not follow the Fed in preparing for a gradual withdrawal of economic stimulus.
Mario Draghi, the president of the European Central Bank, based in Frankurt, said at a news conference that crucial interest rates would ''remain at present or lower levels for an extended period of time.'' Until Thursday, the bank had steadfastly refused to pin itself down on future policy. 
''It's not six months,'' Mr. Draghi said. ''It's not 12 months. It's an extended period of time.''
Mr. Draghi also said that the central bank was signaling a ''downward bias'' in interest rate policy, meaning further cuts were possible or even likely.
Only hours earlier, Mark J. Carney, who became governor of the Bank of England on Monday, made a similar break with tradition. The British central bank said in a statement that any expectations that interest rates would rise soon from their current record low level were misguided.
With their promises of easy money stretching toward the horizon, the central bankers offered more certainty to investors at a time when tensions in Europe are rising again. So-called forward guidance is considered one of the tools available to central banks, but it was one the European Central Bank and the Bank of England had not used before.
European markets reacted positively to the announcements, with the FTSE 100 in London closing 3.1 percent higher and the Euro Stoxx 50, a benchmark of euro zone blue chips, climbing 3 percent. (Markets in the United States were closed for the Fourth of July holiday.) The euro fell sharply, a development that was probably not unwelcome at the European Central Bank, since a cheaper euro makes European products less expensive in foreign markets, feeding exports. The British pound also fell.
Mr. Draghi said it was a coincidence that his central bank and Bank of England introduced forward guidance on the same day. Both left their main interest rates at 0.5 percent and did not announce any other policy moves. It was a day for talk rather than action.
''Mr. Draghi did what he does best today: intervene verbally to great effect,'' Nicholas Spiro, managing director of Spiro Sovereign Strategy in London, said in a note.
Mr. Draghi's statement on Thursday came almost a year after he defused the euro zone debt crisis with a promise to do ''whatever it takes'' to preserve the currency union.
But after months of relative calm, Europe has been rattled in recent days by a political crisis in Portugal, which has raised questions about whether the region's governments will be able to withstand popular discontent with their policies of cutting budgets to bring public debt under control. Investors have responded by pushing up the risk premium they demand on bonds issued by Italy, Spain and other troubled euro zone countries. Market rates on Italian and Spanish bonds retreated on Thursday after Mr. Draghi's comments.
The commitment to keep rates low helps amplify the effect of rates that are already nearly rock bottom, by reassuring investors that they can count on easy money for the foreseeable future.
But some analysts saw Mr. Draghi's statement as a bluff -- a tacit admission that the central bank has run out of other ways to stimulate the euro zone economy.
''A change of a few words in the way he phrases the E.C.B.'s policy stance is an insufficient policy response to alter the -- very troubled -- course of the euroland economy,'' Carl B. Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., said in an e-mail.
Though the central bank remains unwilling to stimulate the economy as aggressively as the Fed, it promised last year to buy government bonds in unlimited amounts to bring down the issuing governments' rates and counteract fears of a euro zone breakup. By the central bank's standards, that was a bold promise, even if the bank has not been forced to deliver on it yet. The shift to forward guidance on Thursday could be seen as another expansion of the central bank's arsenal.
In a further, more tentative break with precedent, Mr. Draghi said that monetary policy would be guided by changes in the rate of inflation, the state of the euro zone economy and indicators of the money supply. Previously, the central bank emphasized inflation above all else. But Mr. Draghi would not elaborate on what economic benchmarks the bank might use to guide policy.
Mr. Draghi suggested that, with inflation well below the central bank's official target of about 2 percent, the bank has room to focus on other factors.
''We do believe that we have an outlook for inflation in the medium term that would justify this new way of communicating,'' he said. The bank's governing council, which met on Thursday, unanimously endorsed the shift in verbal strategy, he said.
The Bank of England has been less restrained than the European Central Bank since the financial crisis began in 2008, buying bonds on a vast scale as a way to push down market interest rates, a strategy very similar to that used by the Fed. The Fed has amassed more than $3 trillion in Treasury securities and mortgage-backed securities, and since December it has been expanding those holdings at the rate of $85 billion a month. It has also said it intends to hold short-term interest rates near zero for as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent.
At the same time, recent comments by Mr. Bernanke looking ahead to a time when the Fed will begin tightening its monetary policy have caused turmoil in global financial markets and probably put pressure on the European Central Bank and the Bank of England to clarify their own intentions.
''Our exit is very distant,'' Mr. Draghi said, though he refused to say how many months or years that might be.
That the Bank of England even issued a statement after its monetary policy meeting was a departure from previous practice and showed that Mr. Carney, the former governor of the Canadian central bank, is making his mark just days after taking office.
''The drop in the pound is a byproduct of the comments, and the market reaction indicates just how eager it is for comments from the new regime,'' said Peter Dixon, an economist at Commerzbank.
The British central bank also held its bond-buying program at £375 billion, or $570 billion. Recent data from the services and manufacturing industries surprised some economists by showing faster rates of growth.
The bank said it decided not to change its stimulus program and benchmark interest rate, which it calls the bank rate, because ''there have been further signs that a recovery is in train, although it remains weak by historical standards and a degree of slack is expected to persist for some time.''
As for the euro zone, Mr. Draghi affirmed his view that the economy was gradually improving but remained fragile.
''Euro area economic activity should stabilize and recover in the course of the year, albeit at a subdued pace,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mario Draghi of the European Central Bank said rates would ''remain at present or lower levels.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROLAND/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
 Mark Carney, governor of the Bank of England, which said in a statement that any expectations that interest rates would rise soon from their current record low levels were misguided. (POOL PHOTO BY JASON ALDEN) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (93%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EURO CRISIS (73%); BRITISH POUND (73%); DEBT CRISIS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); STOCK INDEXES (69%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (61%); GOVERNORS (58%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



130 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 971 words

HEADLINE: Misery Loved A Good Night Out

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
In Reginald Marsh's painting ''Star Burlesque'' (1933), a glowing, statuesque blonde, nude from knees to neckline, poses on the stage of a palatial, Rococo-style theater. Shadowy men in the front rows gaze at her, their impassive expressions no doubt masking lusty yearning.
It's one of the most striking paintings in ''Swing Time: Reginald Marsh and Thirties New York'' at the New-York Historical Society, an exhibition organized by Barbara Haskell, a curator at the Whitney Museum of American Art. 
The show's title naturally calls to mind the era when dance bands like those of Benny Goodman and Duke Ellington flourished, cinematically epitomized in the Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers 1936 classic ''Swing Time.'' Many of Marsh's works evoke the manic intensity of popular culture animating New York in the '30s.
A Social Realist with satirical leanings, Marsh, who died in 1954, was fascinated not only by burlesque and vaudeville but also by other popular entertainment. Using egg tempera with a skittery touch, he made flickering, cartoonish images in a palette ranging from sooty to garishly bright.
He painted exuberant dancers in mixed-race clubs in ''Harlem, Tuesday Night at the Savoy'' (1932) and amusement seekers outside Coney Island attractions, where billboards advertised human anomalies like pointy-headed twins in ''Pip and Flip'' (1932). He documented frolicking sun bathers on the Coney Island sands and people dwarfed by glamorous stars in posters outside electrically glaring movie theaters.
But Marsh also was drawn to less upbeat aspects of life during the Great Depression. In a Rembrandt-like nighttime scene called ''Holy Names Mission'' (1932), men on a sidewalk, illuminated by storefront window lights, wait for food and shelter. More homeless men are found sleeping, dressing and shaving in an industrial-area vacant lot in ''East 10th Street Jungle'' (1934).
So there is another way to interpret the exhibition's title ''Swing Time'': It was an era of dizzying oscillation between excess and deprivation, psychosocially and economically.
For a man of his background, Marsh's preferred subjects were not what might have been expected. His parents were both artists living in Paris on inherited wealth when he was born. His father was a successful painter and muralist of the American Renaissance movement and his mother a watercolorist. When Reginald was 2, the family moved back to the United States and took up residence in Nutley, N.J., then an artist's colony of note. Marsh attended the Lawrenceville School and Yale, where he illustrated the school's humor magazine, The Yale Record.
After graduation, rather than follow in his father's high art footsteps, Marsh turned his drawing skills to journalism, sketching vaudeville acts for The Daily News in New York. He also drew cartoons for the paper's disarmingly titled column ''People We'd Like to Kill but Don't.''
Marsh began to study painting casually at the Arts Students League in the early '20s. But only after a 1925 trip to Europe, where he saw the old masters, did he begin to take painting seriously, eventually folding the vulgar spectacle of metropolitan life into high art. While he would find inspiration in artists like Rembrandt, Michelangelo and Rubens for his style, unlike his contemporary Guy Pène Dubois, for example, he never painted the upper-crust world he came from. He thought rich people were boring subjects.
Would it be a stretch to see an Oedipal dynamic in Marsh's development? He began by rebelling against his father's high art ideals, and then appropriated them for his own aims. The men in his paintings are anonymous drones. The queenly stripper in ''Star Burlesque'' teases and withholds herself from her pathetic male worshipers. As the artist, however, Marsh is able to outdo his rivals and, triumphantly, possess her for himself -- in imagination and on canvas if not in reality.
Certainly Marsh had issues with women. It's instructive to compare images of women in paintings by a number of other artists included in the exhibition. In paintings by Marsh's teacher at the Art Students League, Kenneth Hayes Miller, they are asexual and matronly. In Paul Cadmus's homoerotic ''Sailors and Floosies,'' a scary blonde with a cross dangling from her necklace, hovers demonically over a passed-out sailor, who protectively covers his crotch with one hand. In paintings by Raphael Soyer, both men and women are seen with gentle sympathy and appear closer to real people. But no artist of the time painted women with greater empathy and psychological realism then did the egregiously overlooked Isabel Bishop. A couple of her paintings are reproduced in the exhibition catalog, but she is unfortunately not included in the show.
For Marsh, women are more purely objects of sexual desire than they are for his colleagues. But, at least implicitly, they also have a greater, allegorical significance in his Depression-era panorama -- eros as a fine substitute for money. The glittering burlesque dancers teasingly promise while never delivering a fulfillment for the economically desperate and destitute. Three decades later, in a more prosperous time, the sexy woman in Pop Art paintings by Tom Wesslemann, Mel Ramos and others would personify the consumerist bait and switch.
After World War II, Marsh lamented that the New York of his youth in the '30s was gone. But wouldn't he recognize something of the same in today's metropolis -- in the parade of brazen sexuality on the streets and on screens of all kinds? In the frantic pace of business, the abysmal divide between rich and poor? It's as much like Swing Time today as it ever was.
''Swing Time: Reginald Marsh and Thirties New York'' continues through Sept. 1 at the New-York Historical Society, 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street; (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Swing Time: ''Harlem, Tuesday Night at the Savoy'' (1932), in the Reginald Marsh exhibition at New-York Historical Society. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PRIVATE COLLECTION, 2013 ESTATE OF REGINALD MARSH/ART STUDENTS LEAGUE, ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK) (C19)
 Reginald Marsh's work included scenes of entertainment like vaudeville (above, ''Star Burlesque'' from 1933) and goings-on at Coney Island as well as darker views of the Depression. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CURTIS GALLERIES, MINNEAPOLIS, 2013 ESTATE OF REGINALD MARSH/ART STUDENTS LEAGUE, ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY (ARS), NEW YORK) (C20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); DANCE (77%); FILM (77%); HISTORY (75%); DANCERS (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (62%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (55%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



131 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: China to Test Free Trade Zone in Shanghai as Part of Economic Overhaul

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- China has taken another step toward loosening its capital controls and making its currency more freely convertible by approving the creation of a new kind of free trade zone here.
China's State Council, or cabinet, said it was establishing a pilot zone in Shanghai to test some of the government's financial overhauls, including interest rate liberalization and full convertibility of China's currency, the renminbi, according to reports Thursday in the state-run news media.
Analysts say the free trade zone will not just promote interest rate liberalization and currency convertibility but will also allow ''financial product innovation'' and the raising of money abroad or investment in foreign stocks by corporations. 
Since taking office this year, Prime Minister Li Keqiang has been promising bold changes aimed at overhauling the economy and improving the nation's global competitiveness.
In May, a State Council meeting presided over by Mr. Li said that by the end of the year the government would outline a plan for full convertibility of the renminbi and make it easier for Chinese individuals to invest. Still, many analysts say they believe that China's currency will not be fully convertible until 2015 to 2018.
''The State Council expects this experiment as an essential step towards upgrading China's economy,'' Qu Hongbin, an economist at HSBC in Hong Kong, said in a report on Thursday. ''It also expects the pilot's eventual national rollout.''
It is unclear exactly how the free trade zone would operate, but businesses and traders in the zone would probably be more free to import and export goods without customs approvals, and to convert foreign currency into renminbi more freely.
The approval of the free trade zone is a lift for Shanghai, which in 2009 won State Council approval to become a financial center to compete better with Hong Kong, London, New York and Tokyo.
Although China has the world's second-largest economy, after that of the United States, the government maintains strict controls over capital flows and cross-border investments. It also has tight control over interest rates.
The government does that, in part, to guard against perceived threats from international currency speculators and to prevent huge inflows or outflows of money from rocking the banking sector and the economy.
But the government is moving ahead with plans to integrate with the global economy more fully by loosening controls over interest rates and cross-border trade and investment deals.
Analysts say loosening of those controls could strengthen the financial system and make it more efficient.
The overhauls could also make it easier to trade the renminbi, setting the stage for it to rival the dollar some day as a reserve currency. The government controls its value, and beginning in 2005, Beijing began allowing the renminbi to strengthen against a basket of other major currencies, including the dollar.
Analysts say the experimental zone is another move toward allowing the global financial markets to determine to value of the renminbi, also known as the yuan.
After years of spectacular economic growth, China's economy has been showing signs of weakening this year, and economists are warning about looming risks in the banking industry.
Shanghai, a city of 20 million, already has major ports and transportation hubs, and it is setting its sights on becoming a global logistics center. In 2005, Shanghai opened the first phase of the Yangshan Deep Water Port, which could eventually become the world's largest shipping container port. The facility, projected to cost $18 billion, is on an island that is reached by a bridge that stretches 20 miles across the sea.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Yangshan Deep Water Port in Shanghai, which was opened in 2005 and could eventually become the world's largest shipping container port. (PHOTOGRAPH BY QILAI SHEN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); APPROVALS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (72%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (59%) EAST CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



132 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 262 words

HEADLINE: A Palisades Building Plan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your June 24 editorial ''Don't Spoil the Palisades'' disappointingly repeated arguments that have been promoted by opponents of LG Electronics' $300 million building project in New Jersey. To bolster its weak case, the opposition ignores wider economic and environmental arguments. 
LG does care about the Palisades, and we can assure you that the proposed building does not ''rise far above the tree line,'' but only slightly above it.
Your editorial describes the project as a ''tower'' and quotes others using that description, which was coined by the activists in the first place. By virtually any definition, a tower is a structure higher than it is wide. The reality is that the LG building is a state-of-the-art, low-slung horizontal office building that is significantly wider than it is tall. It will be built on private land, a quarter of a mile back from the Palisades cliff, and it will be a glass building designed to reflect its surroundings.
Your editorial concludes, ''The company would be serving history, the environment and its corporate image if it agreed to a new plan.'' LG is continuing to explore various design alternatives that would mitigate concerns over the building height while not compromising the essentials of this important project, namely its LEED design and creation of hundreds of much-needed jobs.
New Jersey needs employment and investment, and the whole area needs a sensitive approach to the environment. It is possible to achieve both.
WAYNE PARK Pres. and C.E.O., LG Electronics USA Englewood Cliffs, N.J., June 24, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GREEN BUILDING (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: LG ELECTRONICS INC (58%); LG ELECTRONICS USA INC (50%)

TICKER: LGLD (LSE) (58%); 066570 (KSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



133 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 5528 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg) 
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (through July 28) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria, where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabriclike sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and it is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; The Cloisters: 'Search for the Unicorn: An Exhibition in Honor of The Cloisters' 75th Anniversary' (through Aug. 18) The lonely subject of the ''Unicorn Tapestries'' is united with others of its species in ''Search for the Unicorn,'' honoring the 75th anniversary of the Cloisters. Drawn from the Met's holdings and from other public and private collections, it includes manuscripts, paintings, decorative objects and ''unicorn horns'' (actually the tapered, spiral-patterned tusks of the narwhal). The show is a gateway to various fantasy worlds, some of them beyond the scope of medieval Western Europe; a page from the ''Shahnama,'' the Persian ''Book of Kings,'' shows the monarch Iskandar (otherwise known as Alexander the Great) fighting off the one-horned, equine Monster of Habash. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'James Turrell' (through Sept. 25) At once ravishing and hokey, ''Aten Reign,'' the show's centerpiece, turns the museum's famed rotunda into the bliss-out environmental art hit of the summer: an immense, elliptical, nearly hallucinatory play of light and color achieved with elaborate scrims and computerized lighting that might oxymoronically be called a meditative spectacle. Four other installation works from the 1960s and '70s outline the single-minded trajectory of this leading proponent of the Light and Space movement and also provide a simpler, more direct, more mindful experience of, in his words, ''seeing yourself see.'' 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 22) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'At War With the Obvious: Photographs by William Eggleston' (through July 28) In 36 transcendentally beautiful photographs shot in the Mississippi Delta region in the 1970s and early '80s, this pioneer of color photography captured those kinds of sacred moments when something you ordinarily would pass by without a thought -- a children's swing set overgrown by weeds, an abandoned gas station, a basket of fake flowers hanging on someone's front door -- suddenly takes your breath away. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through Sept. 2) If you've seen ''Photography and the American Civil War'' at the Met, you might suppose that viewing another exhibition about the war would be redundant. It's not. With outstanding works by Frederic Edwin Church, Sanford Robinson Gifford and Winslow Homer, this gripping show sheds expansive light on the nation's experience of its own fratricidal conflict. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Ken Price: A Retrospective' (through Sept. 22) Tableware? Toys? Genetic accidents? Objets d'art? The ceramic sculptures of Ken Price suggest all these possibilities. To the market's old divide-and-label query ''Is this art or craft?,'' Price offered one, finessing answer: ''Yes.'' And right he was. You see the rightness instantly in the Met retrospective, which is one of those ideal shows: perfect size, great design (by Frank Gehry), pretty near faultless art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. Ideal, too, in a plainer way, is a concurrent survey of the artist's works on paper, ''Ken Price: Slow and Steady Wins the Race,'' running through Aug. 18 at the Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brush strokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Velázquez's Portrait of Duke Francesco I d'Este: A Masterpiece from the Galleria Estense, Modena' (through July 14) This single-painting exhibition highlights a portrait made at a delicate diplomatic moment during the Thirty Years' War; the painting is on loan to the Met in part because the museum that normally houses it, the Galleria Estense in Modena, is repairing damage from a 2012 earthquake in the region. It's a chance to see another commanding Velázquez at this already well-stocked museum, and to appreciate that this artist's politically savvy portraits are more than just tools of statesmanship. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Expo 1: New York' (through Sept. 2) A sprawling, multisite extravaganza including a multitude of installations, shows-within-shows and events, ''Expo 1: New York'' offers few answers but raises many provocative questions about the current and future state of our planet's unsettled human and natural ecology. Attractions at PS1 range from a beautiful show of pictures by the beloved nature photographer Ansel Adams to a refrigerated room containing chunks from an Icelandic glacier by Olafur Eliasson. On 53rd Street, next to the Museum of Modern Art, ''Rain Room'' invites viewers into a chamber where steady precipitation ceases wherever bodies are detected by high-tech hardware. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Old Masters, Newly Acquired' (through Oct. 6) This celebration of new acquisitions includes about a hundred pre-1900 drawings, all donated, bequeathed or purchased from 2009 to 2012. Dispensing with themes and chronology, the show groups works by patron: Astor, von Bülow and so on. The late-19th-century selections are especially strong; here are not one but two early Degas self-portraits in black chalk; prismatic watercolors by Cézanne and Renoir; a vibrant Gauguin pastel of two Breton girls; and a Seurat horse and landscape in his mossy shadings of conté. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street; (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collagelike storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'La Bienal 2013: Here Is Where We Jump' (through Jan. 4) Much of the work by the 37 artists in the seventh edition of El Museo's Bienal is budget-conscious in its materials and modest in size, scaled to small studios. Maybe exactly because of such restrictions, the show is thoughtful and personal, uneven in parts, solid as a whole. It's also a product of that old-fashioned thing, the ethnically specific museum. Even with definitions of ethnicity stretched all kinds of ways -- what does ''Latino'' really mean anymore, anyway? -- the issue of identity remains at the core of such institutions and informs much of the work in this show. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Against the Grain: Wood in Contemporary Art, Craft and Design' (through Sept. 15) This sixth show in the museum's Materials and Process series is a big improvement on its predecessors, mostly because it feels more artist- and designer-driven. Representing the Chelsea gallery contingent are Alison Elizabeth Taylor, with marquetry installations; Phoebe Washburn and Leonardo Drew, with scrap-wood sculptures; and Roy McMakin, with slyly repurposed found furniture. From the design-fair circuit come functional works like Mark Moskovitz's ''Facecord,'' a sideboard that looks like a stack of firewood when the drawers are closed, and Maarten Baas's knife block in the shape of a head (which seems destined for the MoMA design store). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Ellsworth Kelly: Chatham Series' (through Sept. 8) Together again for the first time in 40 years, the 14 two-panel Chatham paintings from 1971 offer giddy instruction in the weights, measures and balances of strong color -- red, blue, green, yellow, black and white. The works -- abutting rectangles that form an inverted L -- seem to expand or contract as you move around the gallery. An adjoining display of 40 small collages from 1951 shows Mr. Kelly laying out some of the stringent abstract vocabulary that he has mined ever since. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Koloman Moser: Designing Modern Vienna 1897-1907' (through Sept. 2) Along with his better known colleague, Josef Hoffmann, Moser was co-founder of the Wiener Werkstätte, the consortium of designers and artisans that produced some of the 20th century's most beautiful objects. Focusing on Moser's most productive years, this gorgeous exhibition presents more than 200 exquisitely elegant works, including books, glassware, metal pieces, ceramics, jewelry and furniture. 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Adhocracy' (through July 7) The term ''adhocracy'' was coined by the futurologist Alvin Toffler, who predicted that innovative, ad hoc forms of organization would replace more bureaucratically entrenched structures in business and government. This crowded design exhibition presents a variety of self-empowering things that people can make and do for themselves like build their own furniture and bicycles; make new appliances from functional parts of old, broken ones; raise money for bigger projects by means of Kickstarter; and, more problematically, make their own functional handguns using 3-D printers. 231 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Llyn Foulkes' (through Sept. 1) Although poorly organized, this exhibition devoted to a great American original contains several one-of-a-kind masterpieces. Displayed in a small, dark corner room where it glows uncannily, partly by virtue of real lights built into it, ''Pop'' (1985-1991) is a 10-foot-wide marvel of comic magic realism and meticulous craftsmanship. In a homey, wood-paneled living room, the main character, a portrait of the middle-aged artist, sits in a paisley-patterned armchair, staring with bugged-out eyes, evidently driven to catatonic paralysis by what he's seeing on the television. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Fiercely Modern: Art of the Naga Warrior' (through Sept. 16) The Naga were a diverse collection of peoples speaking similar languages and residing in a mountainous area in northeastern India. Headhunting was one of their most prized pursuits until they were almost entirely Christianized in the early 20th century. They also created extraordinarily beautiful textiles, jewelry and ceremonial objects, as this intriguing, introductory show demonstrates. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Ken Johnson)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Hopper Drawing' (through Oct. 6) With more than 200 drawings, two dozen sketchbook pages and an essential bonus of 21 paintings, this landmark exhibition takes us behind the curtain of stillness that makes Hopper's art so riveting to reveal as never before how he used preparatory studies to synthesize reality, memory and imagination. Some of his greatest paintings -- ''New York Movie,'' ''Nighthawks'' -- and other gems are here. An overview indicates how the young Hopper shaped and toughened his versatile gifts into a singular vision. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'I, YOU, WE' (through Sept. 1) The Whitney's latest collection show (and the last one for the Breuer building before the museum decamps to the meatpacking district) finds artists reacting to AIDS, Reagan-era social policies, urban blight and gentrification, and a stock market boom and bust. Everything here dates from the 1980s and early '90s, otherwise known as the era of identity politics. Included are numerous self-portraits, a room of AIDS-related artworks, and Nan Goldin's 45-minute slide installation ''The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.'' (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; 'Gardening by the Book: Celebrating 100 Years of the Garden Club of America' (through July 27) This wonderful show presents more than 125 illustrated tomes about flowers and gardening from four centuries. Loaded with marvels of acute observation and exacting draftsmanship, it begins with Emanuel Sweert's illustrated catalog of more than 500 bulbs and flowers thought to have ignited the Tulipmania craze and ends with first editions of books by the environmentalist Rachel Carson. It is altogether a terrific treat for minds and eyes. Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690, grolierclub.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'Life Cast' (through July 26) One of the outstanding shows of the artist's career is best viewed as a single piece. Three fanatically realistic life-size sculptures of naked humans are paired with two video installations that reveal the meticulous casting process behind their ecstatic, mysterious exactitude. The piece is a homage to -- but also perhaps penance for -- Marcel Duchamp's ''Étant Donnés'' and its obsessive focus on the female sex. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; Paul McCarthy: 'WS' (through Aug. 4) Paul McCarthy's Swiftian film on (among many other things) Walt Disney's ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'' and the American psyche is nasty, funny, X-rated and seven hours long. The jungle-and-ranch-house set in which it was shot is intact in the Armory's drill hall. No one under 17 will be admitted. At Hauser & Wirth, a second extravaganza by the artist, working in collaboration with his son Damon, is in the same politically incorrect, punch-drunk vein on a slightly less epic scale. Here the reference point is the 1955 film ''Rebel Without a Cause.'' Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. Also ''Paul McCarthy and Damon McCarthy: Rebel Dabble Babble'' (through July 26) at Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Cotter)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts from The Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and Medieval art were purchased en bloc by J. P. Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries in numerous ways. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Laddie John Dill: 'Elementary' (through July 26) At the end of the 1960s the West Coast Light and Space artist Laddie John Dill began producing electric light works out of blown glass tubes in a lush palette of jewel-bright colors. Here nine of these works, all from 1971, are installed in one room at regular intervals creating a trippy visual chamber music. Elsewhere, glowing constructions of glass panes in geometric arrangements could be models for updates of Stonehenge, monuments for a new cosmic paganism. Nyehaus, 358 West 20th Street, (212) 366-4493, nyehaus.com. (Johnson)
'I Am the Magic Hand' and Antony: 'The Cut' (through July 19) This New York debut, of an artist whose day job is leading the New York band Antony and the Johnsons, displays a remarkable personal confidence and an impressive fluency with current trends, both expressionist and minimal, that ranges restlessly across collage and abject abstraction. It is paired with a better-than-average group show of five artists working in, around and off painting, along with John Gutman, whose 1937 photograph of anonymous graffiti provided the title. The hand, while very much in evidence, tends to be more promising than magical. Sikkema Jenkins, 530 West 22nd Street, (212) 929-2262, sikkemajenkinsco.com. (Smith)
Jeff Ladouceur: 'Amen' (through July 12) In Mr. Ladouceur's funny, skillfully drawn cartoon world, the ego is always in danger of dissolution. The panoramic ''Braided Sea (Flood Walker)'' pictures terrific swirling waves on which a little guy in a monk's robes rides on a small raft at one end. Looking closely you see that the waves have big, stretchy eyes, suggesting the sense of a self carried away by its own stormy feelings. ZieherSmith, 516 West 20th Street, (212) 229-1088, ziehersmith.com. (Johnson)
'October 18, 1977' (through July 19) Taking Gerhard Richter's shadowy 15-painting cycle about the imprisonment and demise of the Baader-Meinhof gang -- a 1970s West German terrorist group -- as inspiration, this group show, organized by Birgit Rathsmann, stands out from the breezier summer fare elsewhere in Chelsea. Artists like Siebren Versteeg and Grayson Cox explore Mr. Richter's streaky, quasi-photographic brushwork, sensing its power to evoke selective or repressed memory; others address contemporary anxieties about terrorism in, for instance, David Lukowski's bulging backpack left in a corner of the gallery. Klemens Gasser & Tanja Grunert, 524 West 19th Street, (646) 944-6197, gassergrunert.net. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Other
Jane Alexander: 'Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)' (through July 29) The Cathedral of St. John the Divine is an occupied zone this summer, with a transient population of unearthly beings camped out in its chapels and aisles. Neither angels nor devils, though suggesting both, the figures in the sculptural tableaus and related photographs were all created by the South African artist Jane Alexander. And while haunted by her country's history of apartheid, the work has no single meaning, no sum-upable content. Instead, painstakingly calibrated ambiguity leaves this strange and wonderful show open to political speculation and spiritual interpretation. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; 'Alice Aycock Drawings: Some Stories Are Worth Repeating' (through July 13) A Minimalist turned unabashed fantasist, the sculptor Alice Aycock is one of the more visionary figures to have emerged from the New York art scene of the 1970s. Her imagination is especially active on paper, as seen in this two-part show at the Grey Art Gallery and the Parrish Art Museum in Water Mill, N.Y. It's best to begin at the Grey, where diagrams and maquettes conjure Duchamp-esque machines and proposals for ''nonfunctional architecture'' -- for instance, the medievalesque ''City of the Walls'' -- are accompanied by free-associative film treatments. At the Parrish, earlier renderings of fantastical machines and architecture give way to games: elaborate, multicolored drawings based on tantric diagrams, ancient illuminated manuscripts and 19th-century British game boards, among other sources. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. Parrish Art Museum, 279 Montauk Highway, Water Mill, N.Y., (631) 283-2118, parrishart.org. (Rosenberg)
Eamon Ore-Giron: 'Smuggling the Sun' (through July 12) Eamon Ore-Giron's paintings are smart, exceptionally likable and deceptively modest. Working on raw linen with a neat touch and brightly colored matte paints, he creates intricate, jaunty compositions of geometric elements -- circles, triangles, diamonds and crescents -- that call to mind late Kandinsky. They also entail Latin American Modernist motifs, prompting thought about multicultural identity. Nicelle Beauchene, 327 Broome Street, Lower East Side, (212) 375-8043, nicellebeauchene.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
&#x2605; Leslie Lohman Museum of Gay and Lesbian Art: 'Paul Thek and His Circle in the 1950s' (closes on Sunday) A superb exhibition of rare material by an important artist. The Brooklyn-born Paul Thek (1933-98) remains an elusive presence in contemporary art, and this show, organized by the stage designer Peter Harvey and the art historian Jonathan David Katz, fleshes out, for the first time, an early, formative phase in Thek's career, when he drew his primary influences from a network of contemporary gay men in the arts, among them Peter Hujar. 26 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 431-2609, leslielohman.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Cambodian Rattan: The Sculptures of Sopheap Pich' (closes on Sunday) Born in Cambodia in 1971, Sopheap Pich came to international attention in 2009 with a series of openwork, basketlike rattan sculptures that looked as light as air but carried serious ideas in images of half-built cities, viscera, flowers and bombs. His impressive Met show is embedded in the permanent Asian collection. It starts outside the Chinese painting galleries, continues in mezzanine space usually devoted to South Asian material and concludes in the galleries of Southeast Asian art with a gorgeous suspended Buddha. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Lisa Ross: Living Shrines of Uyghur China' (closes on Monday) In 2002, traveling in the desert region of far western China, the New York photographer Lisa Ross encountered a variety of wind-battered religious markers, including corral-like fences built around trees and boxlike wooden enclosures swathed in cloth -- all either shrines to Sufi saints and objects of religious pilgrimage or graves of devotees. This beautiful show is a record of Ms. Ross's repeated visits to monuments that were meant to be spiritually functional, formally arresting and fleeting. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY AGATON STROM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (77%); GHANA (77%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



134 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 5775 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Bill W. and Dr. Bob' (previews start on Monday; opens on July 16) Samuel Shem and Janet Surrey's widely traveled play returns to New York in a new production directed by Seth Gordon, who staged the drama to strong critical response at the Cleveland Play House in 2010. Patrick Boll plays the New York stockbroker Bill Wilson, who took to the bottle after the 1929 crash, and Timothy Crowe plays Dr. Bob Smith, a surgeon often found in the operating theater with a hangover. The play chronicles their unlikely encounter, which led to mutual rescue and the formation of Alcoholics Anonymous. Proceeds go to the Hazelden Foundation to fund a college tour to address binge drinking on campuses. SoHo Playhouse, 15 Van Dam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, billwanddrbob.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Cradle Will Rock' (opens on Wednesday) The Encores! series of semi-staged musicals has the debut of its new Off-Center summer program with this 1937 political satire by Marc Blitzstein, a fascinating historical document -- funded through the Federal Theater Project -- in which striking steel workers and combative union organizers clash with fat cats and brutal cops. Stepping into shoes once worn by Orson Welles, the in-demand director Sam Gold marshals a promising cast that includes Danny Burstein, Eisa Davis, Raúl Esparza, Peter Friedman, Judy Kuhn, Martin Moran, Da'Vine Joy Randolph, Anika Noni Rose and Henry Stram. The production plays just five performances, through July 13, with the final show preceded by Cherry Jones and Lisa Kron recounting the piece's tumultuous history, in the words of Blitzstein and John Houseman. City Center, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Rooney)
'The Designated Mourner' (in previews; opens on July 21) In a joint venture to celebrate the 40-year theatrical collaboration between the writer and performer Wallace Shawn and his frequent director, André Gregory, the Public Theater and Theater for a New Audience are presenting a two-part salute. First up is Mr. Shawn's 1996 play, a series of interlocking monologues in which three artist-intellectuals reflect on the hard-right turn taken by their unnamed, once-liberal country. Mr. Gregory reunites the cast of his celebrated 2000 New York production, Mr. Shawn, Deborah Eisenberg and Larry Pine, for the occasion. The celebration will continue in October with the American premiere of Mr. Shawn's latest play, ''Grasses of a Thousand Colors.'' Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'First Date' (previews start on Tuesday; opens on Aug. 8) Zachary Levi, from the NBC spy comedy ''Chuck,'' and Krysta Rodriguez, from ''The Addams Family'' onstage and ''Smash'' on television, are the potential soulmates thrown together in an eventful getting-to-know-you evening in this romantic musical that kicks off the new Broadway season. Directed by Bill Berry, who first staged the musical as a production of the 5th Avenue Theater and ACT in Seattle, the show has a book by Austin Winsberg, a former writer and producer on ''Gossip Girl,'' with music and lyrics by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Josh Rhodes (''Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella'') is the choreographer. Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'Les Liaisons Dangereuses' (opens on Tuesday) Having placed his stamp as an actor on the tragic villain Valmont in Stephen Frears's 1988 film ''Dangerous Liaisons,'' John Malkovich now brings his directorial perspective to Christopher Hampton's stage adaptation of that work, based on the salacious Pierre Choderlos de Laclos chronicle of seduction and power in 18th-century France. Staged in a contemporary rehearsal studio with the story's epistolary messages traveling back and forth via smartphones and tablets, this French-language production comes from Le Théâtre de l'Atelier in Paris. It plays seven performances as part of the Lincoln Center Festival. Gerald W. Lynch Theater at John Jay College, 899 10th Avenue, at 59th Street, Clinton, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenterfestival.org. (Rooney)
'Monkey: Journey to the West' (previews start on Saturday; opens on Tuesday) Based on a popular Chinese folk tale that dates to 1592, this fusion of theater, music, animation, acrobatics and martial arts chronicles the fantastical trek of a monk in search of sacred Buddhist scriptures. Staged by the renowned Chinese opera and film director Chen Shi-Zheng, it features a score by Damon Albarn, the musically adventurous frontman of the Brit-pop band Blur, with animation by Jamie Hewlett, his co-conspirator in his virtual side project, Gorillaz. One of the main events of this summer's Lincoln Center Festival, it runs through July 28. David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenterfestival.org. (Rooney)
'Murder for Two' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on July 25) Second Stage Theater Uptown has provided early New York exposure for emerging playwrights including Rajiv Joseph, Leslye Headland, Adam Bock and Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa. The annual summer series wraps its 2013 lineup with a rare foray into musicals in this madcap modern twist on Agatha Christie, in which one actor (Brett Ryback) plays the homicide investigator and another (Jeff Blumenkrantz) plays all 13 suspects. Joe Kinosian composed the score, and Kellen Blair wrote the lyrics, with both collaborating on the book. Scott Schwartz directs. McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway at 76th Street, fourth floor, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)
New York Musical Theater Festival (opens on Monday) Running through July 28, the 10th annual summer blitz of fledgling musicals this year includes an adaptation of ''Anne of Green Gables'' (''Bend in the Road''); a show about the short-attention-span stigma of Gay-DD (''Boys Will Be Boys''); a high school revamp of ''Cyrano de Bergerac'' (''Crossing Swords''); a behind-the-scenes story about the making of a 1938 RKO dance bio-drama (''Castle Walk''); a campy sci-fi entry about a gay alien in ultrareligious Middle America (''Homo: The Musical''); a folk-rock excursion into Greek mythology (''Icarus''); a femme fatale spy saga (''Mata Hari in 8 Bullets''); the ghostly revenge tale of a Harlem evangelist's wife (''Mother Divine''); a Gilbert & Sullivan-style journey down Wall Street (''The Pirates of Finance''); a children's classic (''Swiss Family Robinson''); a Bigfoot tale (''Sasquatched! The Musical''); and a poppy sports comedy (''Volleygirls''). Various locations, (212) 352-3101, nymf.org. (Rooney)
'Nobody Loves You' (in previews; opens on July 18) The manufactured romantic drama of a TV dating show collides with the authentic emotional connection of a real relationship, creating complications for a philosophy grad student in this new musical with book and lyrics by the playwright Itamar Moses and music and lyrics by Gaby Alter. Michelle Tattenbaum directs this Second Stage production, with an eight-member ensemble that includes Leslie Kritzer, Lauren Molina and Rory O'Malley. Choreography is by Mandy Moore, an Emmy winner for her work on ''So You Think You Can Dance.'' Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.org. (Rooney)
'rogerandtom' (previews start on Saturday; opens on July 13) Following its popular spring run, Julien Schwab's mind-bending, fourth wall-obliterating comedy from Personal Space Theatrics returns to Here for an extended summer engagement. A ''Twilight Zone''-style exploration of the boundaries of the imagination, the show centers on a man who has come to see the same production as the audience, only to discover that he is part of the cast. Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Rooney)
'Shun-kin' (opens on Tuesday) The British experimental company Complicite, last seen at Lincoln Center Festival in 2010 with ''A Disappearing Number,'' returns in its 30th anniversary year with this production directed by Simon McBurney. A collaboration with Setagaya Public Theater of Tokyo, the piece is inspired by the writings of Jun'ichiro Tanizaki. Set in 19th-century Japan, it reflects on conflicts between the country's past and present, focusing on the story of an Osaka merchant's blind daughter and the servant who is her secret lover. Six performances only. Rose Theater, Frederick P. Rose Hall, Jazz at Lincoln Center, 60th Street and Broadway, (212) 721-6500, lincolncenterfestival.org. (Rooney)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Jane Lynch as Miss Hannigan (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Macbeth' Alan Cumming portrays the Scottish general who would be king, and all the other significant roles, in this one-man race through Shakespeare's tragedy, set in a mental institution. Mr. Cumming's virtuosity and the gothic inventions of the directors, John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg, impress, but while the actor effectively differentiates the roles, he never fully inhabits any of them (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, and in a lovely, low-key performance, Condola Rashad (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (1:30). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Choir Boy' A supremely gifted cast of singing actors breathes vivid life into Tarell Alvin McCraney's appealing but diffuse play about a gay youth, played with beaming intensity by Jeremy Pope, trying to come to terms with his sexuality at an all-black boys prep school (1:30). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'The Explorers Club' Nell Benjamin's intermittently funny but mostly blunt-witted comedy, directed by Marc Bruni, features a lively cast in a farcical story of tweedy members of a British science club fretting over whether to admit a female member, played by Jennifer Westfeldt (1:35). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'Gibraltar' James Joyce fans will appreciate this ''Adaptation After James Joyce's 'Ulysses,' '' a play that focuses on Leopold and Molly Bloom. Patrick Fitzgerald, who wrote it, and Cara Seymour play a range of characters. True to the book, they also suggest a good deal about the bond between Joyce and Nora Barnacle, his uneducated wife, indispensable muse and model for Molly (1:55). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'A Kid Like Jake' Daniel Pearle's smart, fluent drama explores the emotional complications that arise for a young couple (the excellent Carla Gugino and Peter Grosz) during the arduous process of obtaining a place for their 4-year-old son at one of Manhattan's exclusive private schools. Jake favors ''gender-variant play,'' like dressing like Cinderella (1:40). Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com, lct.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Murder Ballad' A small but savvy musical that panders in style to those of us who lap up febrile accounts of fatal attractions. Julia Jordan and Juliana Nash's contemporary tale of a razor-edged love triangle knows exactly what it wants to do, and does it most efficiently, with a four-member cast directed by Trip Cullman. Staged last fall at Manhattan Theater Club's Studio at Stage II, the show returns with most of its original cast (John Ellison Conlee, Will Swenson and Rebecca Naomi Jones) and an addition: Caissie Levy, who has replaced Karen Olivo. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place: the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic neighborhood of Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'A Picture of Autumn' Removing an aged parent from a beloved home that's no longer safe or convenient is never easy. Just imagine this scaled up a bit, with the parent clinging to a crumbling, 16th-century, 18-bedroom mansion. Robert tries this thankless task in the revival of this 1951 play by N. C. Hunter. The play feels much too long, drawing out dialogues as if the audience had as much time to kill as the listless manor residents. But the cast (led by George Morfogen) is nonetheless stellar (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
&#x2605; 'Rantoul and Die' Debbie, assistant manager at the local Dairy Queen, has had enough of Rallis, a whimpering man-child. But Rallis cannot bear the thought of living without her and discharges several disturbing cries for help. This darkly funny play is by Mark Roberts, creator of the sitcom ''Mike & Molly,'' and he writes here with the expletive-laden catharsis of someone who has been cramped by CBS's Standards & Practices department for far too long. His dialogue is exquisitely vivid and coarse, riddled with saw-toothed similes and sinister non sequiturs (1:40). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, amoralists.com. (Rampell)
'The Silver Cord' The Peccadillo Theater Company tries to enliven this creaky 1926 drama about an absurdly possessive mother by having that role played by a man in drag (Dale Carman), but the move doesn't add much. The play, by Sidney Howard, who later wrote the screenplay for ''Gone With the Wind,'' just hasn't aged very well (2:15). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, thepeccadillo.com. (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie à deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' David Morse gives a precise, chilling performance as the title character, a mini-Madoff, in Steven Levenson's downbeat drama about a man trying to make amends for the damage his crime inflicted on his family (1:40). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Unconstitutional' Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212) 352-3101, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Jason Zinoman)
'Unlock'd' The best songs in this new musical from the Prospect Theater Company are surprisingly beautiful considering how daffy the story is. It's a Shakespearean sort of romantic comedy set in a land of sylphs and gnomes where hair is practically worshiped, especially the tresses of Belinda (Jillian Gottlieb), the fairest and possibly dimmest lass in the land. Things run on a little too long, but there are rewards along the way (2:00). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
'A Cautionary Tail' Two half-Chinese siblings squirm under the iron paw of their menacing tiger mom. In their struggles to conform to unyielding parental expectations while remaining trendy, sexually adventurous, self-actualizing Stuyvesant students, the siblings end up turning against each other. In the age of Facebook, teenage spats can escalate quickly. Christopher Oscar Peña's script is sprawling and disjointed, but salvaged by direction from Benjamin H. Kamine, whose imaginative stagings and design choices are the production's real star (2:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theflea.org. (Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
'Showgirls! The Musical!' If ever a movie were ripe for a sendup, it's Paul Verhoeven's 1995 turkey, ''Showgirls.'' The lurid story of a hitchhiker turned pole dancer turned Las Vegas star is catnip for any devotee of camp, and this frenetic production pushes it into the camp stratosphere, with X-rated songs, abundant toplessness and a much higher male quotient. Alas, the movie's misogyny lingers. The tireless and fearless April Kidwell, however, in the Elizabeth Berkley role, is a wonder: Her vibrant physicality and knowing humor inadvertently constitute a welcome riposte to the story's mockery of its protagonist (1:30). (Wednesdays and Saturdays only.) XL Nightclub, 512 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-2999, showgirlsthemusical.com. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Return engagement starts on Saturday. The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Rampell)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Doña Flor y Sus Dos Maridos' A Spanish-language adaptation (''Doña Flor and Her Two Husbands,'' in English) of Jorge Amado's novel, a sex farce with the clarity and logic of a folk tale and the spirit of a party (1:40). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9920, repertorioespanol.com.
'En el Tiempo de las Mariposas' Caridad Svich's Spanish-language adaptation of Julia Álvarez's novel (''In the Time of the Butterflies'') about the Mirabal sisters, who opposed the Dominican dictator Rafael Trujillo and died as a result (2:00). Repertorio Español at Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org/mariposas.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Far From Heaven' (closes on Sunday) Hinting at shimmering vistas beyond picket-fence conformity, Kelli O'Hara's soprano provides the poetry in this generally prosy adaptation of Todd Haynes's 2002 film about a beleaguered housewife in Eisenhower-era Hartford. Though Scott Frankel and Michael Korie have written some alluring songs, the show often seems to confine its wonderful star, and her character, to two dimensions (2:15). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Brantley)
'Silence! The Musical' (closes on Sunday) An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Zinoman)

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2013

 CORRECTION:
A theater entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Broadway musical ''First Date,'' which is in previews at the Longacre Theater, misidentified the theater where the show was first staged. It was at the ACT Falls Theater in Seattle, not at the 5th Avenue Theater there. (The staging was a co-production of ACT and the 5th Avenue Theater.) The error also appeared on July 5, 12 and 19.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); MUSICAL THEATER (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); CHARITIES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (69%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); STUDENT SUBSTANCE ABUSE (68%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: HAZELDEN FOUNDATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8361 RESIDENTIAL CARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



135 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Teenagers in The Times | June 2013

BYLINE: KATHERINE SCHULTEN


HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to another edition of Teenagers in The Times. Use it for teaching with compelling nonfiction or as a place to find interesting choices for our summer reading contest. 

 BODY:
Welcome to another edition of Teenagers in The Times, a monthly feature we started a year ago this month as a way to collect all the news about young people in one handy spot.
Use the collection for teaching and learning or as inspiration for our summer reading contest. 
The next installment in the series will publish on Monday, August 5.
World | U.S. | Science and Health | Sports | Business and Economics | Arts | Education
 World 
Iranians Say Vote Won't Bridge Gap Between Leaders' Promises and Reality
 A day before the presidential election, many of the generation born after the revolution say their viewpoints are ignored. 
Pussy Riot Takes Manhattan, Quietly
 Performers in the Russian art and protest collective take in an HBO documentary about them and talk with their fans. 
Rite of Passage for French Students Receives Poor Grade
 By the hundreds of thousands, French teenagers pack themselves into libraries, flood their bloodstreams with stimulants and spend weeks generally cramming for the baccalauréat, better known simply as the "bac," the exhaustive finishing exam that has racked the nerves of France's students since the time of Napoleon. 
The Best Hope for France's Young? Get Out
 Some believe that a country that has tolerated a youth unemployment rate of 25 percent for nearly 30 years isn't a place where the rising generations can expect to rise to much of anything. 
U.S. Student Killed in Egypt Protest Was Drawn to a Region in Upheaval
 Andrew Pochter was killed in Alexandria during antigovernment protests, and was working there this summer as an intern at a nonprofit organization. 
Young Activists Rouse Egypt Protests but Leave Next Steps to Public
 Two months ago, five young activists at a Cairo coffee shop hatched a simple plot to capture the growing public frustration with the direction of their country: collect signatures calling for the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi and organize a protest at the presidential palace on June 30, the anniversary of his inauguration. 
 U.S. 
Seeking Exposé, Students End Up in Handcuffs
 "As the cold metal cuffs were tightened around our wrists," the article began, "it was clear that we were in way over our heads." 
Immigrants Reach Beyond a Legal Barrier for a Reunion
 Three young immigrants had a jubilant and painful reunion with parents who had been deported from the United States, sharing hugs through the steel bars of the border fence that separates this American town from its Mexican twin. 
Rights Unit Finds Bias Against Transgender Student
 A Colorado school district discriminated against a transgender first grader when it refused to let her use the girl's bathroom, the state's civil rights division has determined, a decision gay and transgender advocates say will have an indelible impact on how such cases are handled in the future. 
Camping for Feminism
 A visit to the nonprofit group Choices in Childbirth came toward the end of the sort of quintessentially Manhattan summer experience in which lanyard making is never considered: Feminist Camp. 
Band in Fatal Hazing to Perform Again
 The celebrated marching band of Florida A&M University, whose reputation was damaged by the hazing-related death of a drum major, will be allowed to perform again after a 19-month suspension. 
Times Topics Page | Trayvon Martin
 The murder trial of George Zimmerman began this month in Florida. Follow all the developments here. 
Op-Ed | These Children Are Our Future
 A hypothetical statistical portrait of the high school class of 2013 shows some depressing numbers. 
 Science and Health 
Out of Concrete and Drudgery Come Canoes That Float
 At the National Concrete Canoe Competition, civil engineering students use a material that is normally the stuff of dams and parking garages to build a 20-foot-long craft that will float even if completely swamped.
HPV Vaccine Is Credited in Fall of Teenagers' Infection Rate
 The prevalence of dangerous strains of the human papillomavirus - the most common sexually transmitted infection in the United States and a principal cause of cervical cancer - has dropped by half among teenage girls in the last decade, a striking measure of success for a vaccine that was introduced only in 2006, federal health officials said. 
Trying-and Failing-to Host an Alcohol-Free Teen Party
 When my 18-year-old son begged: "Mom. Please. Can we please have an end-of-summer party?" I wanted to be someone other than the humorless mother who had drug-tested him since he got caught with marijuana in eighth grade. 
Updates to Drivers' Education Reflect New Dangers on the Road
 Starting next month, a suburban Chicago high school will join others around the country in updating its drivers' ed program with new simulators, featuring 3-D interactive technology that teaches teenagers far more modern dangers of driving - particularly talking on cellphones and texting behind the wheel.
Obesity in Teenagers Is Tied to Hearing Loss
 Obesity in adolescents is associated with a range of cardiovascular and other health risks. Now a new study adds one more: hearing loss. 
 Business and Economics 
What It Takes to Make New College Graduates Employable
 A special report by The Chronicle of Higher Education and American Public Media's Marketplace published in March found that about half of 704 employers who participated in the study said they had trouble finding recent college graduates qualified to fill positions at their company. 
Young and Isolated
 Young working-class men and women are trying to figure out what it means to be an adult in a world of disappearing jobs, soaring education costs and shrinking social support networks. 
More Young People Ditching Credit Cards
 Younger adults seem to be developing an aversion to credit cards and the debt that comes with them. 
 Sports 
Want to Play at a Different College? O.K., but Not There or There
 The use of transfer rules to eliminate many of an athlete's preferred options illustrates the big-business mind-set of college sports and the control that coaches have over players. 
Spurs Defend 11-Year-Old Anthem Singer
 Sebastien de la Cruz, an 11-year-old Mexican-American, sang the national anthem here on Tuesday night wearing a mariachi suit. Within minutes of his performance, he had become the target of racist tweets about his heritage and his immigration status (Sebastien was born in San Antonio). 
A Hunger for a Better Life May Lead to the N.B.A.
 His new passport says he is Greek, but Giannis Adetokunbo has lived a struggling immigrant's life. But Adetokunbo, a 6-foot-9 son of Nigerian parents, also plays basketball. Very well. That is what N.B.A. scouts say. They flocked to Greece and buzzed about his ball-handling, his court vision and his decision-making. 
Best Brother Was Saved for Last, Bobcats Think
 The Zeller brothers each took a turn being Indiana's Mr. Basketball. They reached a combined height of just under 21 feet, and each attended a powerhouse athletic university. But like most of the groups of three or more brothers to make it to professional sports, one will probably stand above the rest.
 Arts and Style 
Teenage Blues Phenom Quinn Sullivan Releases 'Getting There'
 If you ask Buddy Guy who embodies the future of blues guitar, he will point to a 14-year-old boy from Massachusetts named Quinn Sullivan. "Remember that name," Mr. Guy said in a recent interview. "He sounds like Eric Clapton, B. B. King, me, Hendrix, everybody, man!" 
Student Social Climbing, but on an Indoor Bike
 An indoor cycling gym, Cyc, is the first brand to target college students specifically. 
Rapping About Darwin, for Knowledge and Glory
 School was out for the week, but the lessons were just starting. Jahleel Cephus, 17, a sophomore from Validus Preparatory Academy in the Bronx, swayed to a hip-hop beat and dropped science: "Bioclast, foliation, and that granite," he rhymed. "I can tell you something 'bout an aphanitic." 
A School for Young Dancers Grows Up
 Every year, roughly 30,000 students like Ms. Ha audition for Ballet Tech, formally known as the New York City Public School for Dance, which provides dance training run by Mr. Feld along with academic study for 156 students in grades 4 through 8. 
Longing to Stay Wanted, MTV Turns Its Attention to Younger Viewers
 Trying to win over a fickle teenager isn't easy. Trying to win over millions of them every night is - as the kids say - cray cray. 
Laughing All the Way to the Bank
 What do you call a young woman who is materialistic, sustains herself on iced coffee and Diet Coke, and believes the three cardinal rules to getting ahead in life are "don't be easy," "don't be poor" and "don't be ugly"? 
A Betch. 
 Education 
Slide Show | They Grow Up So Fast

Photographs that revisit New York fifth graders at the Equity Project Charter School three years later as they finish eighth grade. 
At Stuyvesant High School, a Presidency Is Won, and Quickly Revoked
.Jack Cahn, 17, was elected president this month, but Stuyvesant High School's Board of Elections immediately disqualified him for what it said was a series of violations during the campaign. Mr. Cahn, however, is fighting to overturn the decision. 
In Student Housing, Luxuries Overshadow Studying
 As private housing developers try harder than ever to outdo the amenities that their competitors offer in college towns, concern is growing about the academic and social consequences of upscale off-campus student housing. 
Ethnicity, Class and Suicide Lead a Hamptons School to Reach Out
 An ethnic integration problem that had been festering in the background for years at East Hampton High School has been brought to the forefront by student suicides. 
Go to full series »
Learn about teaching with "Teenagers in The Times" »

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (89%); TRANSGENDER PERSONS (86%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (71%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (69%); IMMIGRATION (65%); DISCRIMINATION (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (63%); DEPORTATION (60%); BORDER CONTROL (60%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (56%) Teens in The Times

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (69%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); EGYPT (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



136 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 427 words

HEADLINE: On The Political Economy Of Permanent Stagnation

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Some gloomy thoughts. 

 BODY:
I've been having a strange reaction to recent news about economic policy. Stuff is happening: the Fed bungled its communications, doing its bit to undermine modest economic progress; the European Commission is sorta kinda relaxing its demands for austerity; the Bank of England appears to have issued forward guidance that it's going to issue forward guidance; and so on. But with the possible exception of Abenomics, it's all pretty small-bore stuff. 
And that's disappointing. We had what felt like an epic intellectual debate over austerity economics, which ended, insofar as such debates ever end, with a stunning victory for the anti-austerity side - and hardly anything changed in the real world. Meanwhile, the pain caucus has found a new target, inventing dubious reasons for monetary tightening. And mass unemployment goes on.
So how does this end? Here's a depressing thought: maybe it doesn't.
True, something could come along - a new technology that induces lots of investment, a war, or maybe just a sufficient accumulation of "use, decay, and obsolescence", as Keynes put it. But at this point I have real doubts about whether there will be events that force policy action.
First of all, I think many of us used to believe that sustained high unemployment would lead to substantial, perhaps accelerating deflation - and that this would push policymakers into doing something forceful. It's now clear, however, that the relationship between inflation and unemployment flattens out at low inflation rates. We can probably have high unemployment and stable prices in Europe and America for a very long time - and all the wise heads will insist that it's all structural, and nothing can be done until the public accepts drastic cuts in the safety net.
But won't there be an ever-growing demand from the public for action? Actually, that's not at all clear. While there is growing "austerity fatigue" in Europe, and this might provoke a crisis, the overwhelming result from U.S. political studies is that the level of unemployment matters hardly at all for elections; all that matters is the rate of change in the months leading up to the election. In other words, high unemployment could become accepted as the new normal, politically as well as in economic analysis.
I guess what I'm saying is that I worry that a more or less permanent depression could end up simply becoming accepted as the way things are, that we could suffer endless, gratuitous suffering, yet the political and policy elite would feel no need to change its ways.
Oh, and have a nice day.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); DEFLATION (73%); ELECTIONS (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



137 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: For the Employment Rate, an Uptick

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The share of American adults with jobs rose slightly in June, to 58.7 percent. That matches the highest level since the end of the recession, but remains well below the prevailing level before the recession. 

 BODY:
The share of American adults with jobs rose slightly in June, to 58.7 percent. That matches the highest level since the end of the recession in 2009, but remains well below the prevailing level before the recession. 
The chart shows the long-term trend: a sharp drop, a prolonged stagnation and maybe, just maybe, the beginning of a recovery.
The employment rate has not moved much in recent years because job growth since the end of the recession has basically kept pace with population growth.
The more familiar unemployment rate has declined significantly, but it counts people as unemployed only if they are looking for work. It has declined because people stopped looking, not because they started working. 
Thus the importance of tracking the employment rate.
Economists, including Federal Reserve officials, say they expect that as the economy continues to grow, and the unemployment rate continues to decline, discouraged workers will start seeking - and finding - work again.
Until that happens, however, the recovery is incomplete.

        
Full Employment: The Big Missing Piece
        
Long-Term Jobless: Still a Bleak Picture
        
Much Ado About ... Well, Maybe Not Much
        
This Time, Economy Is Overshadowed
        
For the Markets, a Steady Outlook

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (92%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (77%) Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



138 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 261 words

HEADLINE: The Lagging Public Sector

BYLINE: FLOYD NORRIS


HIGHLIGHT: Private-sector employment is growing at about the same rate it did during the best days of the last decade. But the government continues to shed workers. 

 BODY:
Private sector employment in the United States is growing at about the same rate it did during the best days of the last decade. 
The difference is in the government. It continues to shed workers.
The above chart shows the annual change in employment for the private sector, and for government jobs, since the end of 2002.
Over the last 12 months, private sector employment rose 2 percent. That is down a little from the 2.5 percent rate early last year, but it is about the same as the rate of growth in the fall of 2005.
But government employment continues to fall. It is down 0.2 percent, which is the best year-over-year showing since 2009, when the government cutbacks were starting to be felt.
On a monthly basis, over the last 12 months the economy added an average of 191,000 jobs a month in the private sector, and cut public sector employment by 3,000 jobs a month.
Politicians lamenting the slow pace of recovery might, logically, look for ways to increase hiring in the sector that is lagging the most. 
(A note on the data: I used figures before seasonal adjustments, which is possible since annual changes presumably take care of seasonal adjustment. And I dropped from the numbers the temporary surge in government jobs caused by hiring for the 2010 census. Without that change, there would have been a rise in government employment in 2010 and a much steeper decline in 2011.)

        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market
        
The Sequester Starts to Show
        
Understating Job Growth
        
Positive News Muddles Political Talking Points
        
For the Employment Rate, an Uptick

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL SERVICES (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%) Government Employees; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; Floyd Norris; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



139 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: Positive News Muddles Political Talking Points

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: The White House, reacting to Friday&#8217;s jobs report, omitted any mention of the effects of sequestration, while Republicans focused on what could be better. 

 BODY:
Ana Navarro, a Republican strategist and commentator, had a novel thought in response to Friday's jobs report, which showed 195,000 new jobs created in June:
Jobs report a little better than expected. Can we all be glad for at least 5 minutes before we get political? http://t.co/tgG65euRsN 
- Ana Navarro (@ananavarro)5 Jul 13
Not really.
The positive report actually deprived both sides of talking points. Republicans acknowledged that the numbers were good - but not good enough. The White House appeared to tacitly concede that the effects of automatic budget cuts were not as dire as feared. In reaction to recent jobs reports, the Obama administration has called on Congress to replace so-called sequestration with a more deliberate approach to help the economy. But Alan B. Krueger, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, did not pick that bone on Friday, for the first time since sequestration went into effect. 
"While more work remains to be done, today's employment report provides further confirmation that the U.S. economy is continuing to recover from the worst downturn since the Great Depression," Mr. Krueger said in a blog post. He was vague in policy prescriptions going forward, saying that Washington should not "impose self-inflicted wounds on the economy" and that President Obama would continue to push the agenda he outlined in his State of the Union address.
Republicans, on the other hand, did have specific complaints. Just as they praised the uptick but called for stronger growth, Republican leaders called on Mr. Obama to delay the employer mandate beyond the year announced earlier this week. 
"Delaying the inevitable for one year will bring no solace," said Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the House majority leader, in a statement. "We must have a permanent delay of Obamacare before we can realize our full job creating potential."
The House speaker, John A. Boehner, had a litany of additional concerns about Mr. Obama's approach to the economy over the last month, referring to a missed deadline that led federal student loan interest rates to double on July 1 and Mr. Obama's speech on climate policy: "He threatens to veto a bill based on his own plan to make paying for college easier, then watches quietly as Senate Democrats let interest rates double; and he makes up new reasons to delay the Keystone pipeline in a speech about imposing a national energy tax." 
Mr. Boehner's dig at Senate Democrats was a reminder of the divided government that has made clear economic policy difficult to achieve. Steny Hoyer, the No. 2 Democrat in the House, called on Mr. Boehner to "appoint budget conferees so that we can begin the process of negotiating a final budget based on a balanced approach to deficit reduction."
But House Republicans appear to be divided on this matter themselves. 

        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
This Time, Economy Is Overshadowed
        
The Lagging Public Sector
        
For the Employment Rate, an Uptick
        
Full Employment: The Big Missing Piece

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); POLITICS (78%); VETO (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); BUDGET CUTS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); GREAT DEPRESSION (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (66%); STUDENT LOANS (65%); INTEREST RATES (60%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (60%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Krueger, Alan B; Labor and Jobs; Unemployment; United States Politics and Government; The Jobs Report

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERIC CANTOR (78%); STENY HOYER (58%) Boehner, John A; Cantor, Eric; Krueger, Alan B

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



140 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: The latest jobs report shows the impact of federal layoffs and furloughs, and a hit to employment in industries that rely heavily on defense funds. 

 BODY:
The across-the-board automatic federal budget cuts that began in March do not seem to be derailing the recovery so far, given that the job market over all has continued to grow. And certainly some of the scariest predictions about the sequester didn't come true (partly because Congress stepped in to prevent their occurrence). But if you look closely at the data, the sequester still does seem to be affecting certain industries pretty badly.
As my colleague Floyd Norris wrote, government payrolls have been shrinking for several years. Those declines were mostly driven by state and local layoffs at first; lately, the layoffs have gotten worse at the federal level. In the last four months, the federal government has laid off 40,000 workers. And that number doesn't indicate the full extent to which the sequester has affected employment, as many government agencies have resorted to furloughs rather than full-blown layoffs. 
Below is a chart showing the numbers of federal workers who have been working "part time for economic reasons," a term meaning they want to be working full time, but can't get their employer to give them full-time hours. The numbers are not seasonally adjusted, so I've charted the trends for 2011, 2012 and 2013 to compare the level in a given month with its level exactly one year and two years earlier. 
As you can see, there was a huge jump in the number of reluctant federal part-timers in June compared with the same month in 2011 and 2012. In June 2013, 148,000 federal workers were working part-time hours (defined as fewer than 35 hours a week) but wished they were working full time, compared with 58,000 in June 2012 and 55,000 in June 2011.
In fact, in every month starting in February, when agencies perhaps started preparing for the sequester, the number of reluctant federal part-timers has been higher than its level in 2012. In each of those months in 2013, the level has also been higher than in 2011, with the exception of April, when there were an equal number of federal part-timers for economic reasons in 2011 and 2013 (64,000).
And of course, these figures show only what's happening with federal workers. There are plenty of private-sector workers whose jobs and hours depend on federal money, too, as I wrote in an article last week. 
In that article, I calculated which industries were most reliant on federal defense money, based on Labor Department data showing where the Defense Department spends its money, and how money spent in any one sector affects employment in all the others (for example, employment of metal workers might rise when the government orders a new jet). The top five defense-sensitive industries are ship and boat building, facilities support services, aerospace product and parts manufacturing, scientific research and development services and electronic instruments manufacturing (which includes companies that make navigational instruments, for example). 
Here's a look at the monthly change in employment in these defense-sensitive industries, shown at an annualized percentage growth rate, versus all other industries:
As you can see, in the last few months, the defense-sensitive industries have been shedding jobs, while the rest of the country's employers have been adding jobs over all. The trends for the previous months are noisy, but if you smooth them out, it looks as if the defense-sensitive industries and the other industries were both doing about equally well, with the exception of a huge downward spike in employment in the defense-sensitive industries around the time of the summer 2011 debt ceiling crisis. 

        
The Sequester Starts to Show
        
Full Employment: The Big Missing Piece
        
The Rise of Part-Time Work
        
The Lagging Public Sector
        
Long-Term Jobless: Still a Bleak Picture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (95%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (88%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TRENDS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); BOAT BUILDING (50%) Defense Contracts; Federal Budget (US); Government Employees; Labor and Jobs; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Part-Time Employment; Unemployment; United States Economy; Working Hours; The Jobs Report

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



141 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Implications for Monetary Policy

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: Even with the better-than-expected jobs report, it may be premature for investors to conclude that a winding down of the Fed&#8217;s stimulus program is near, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland, and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
Market watchers appear to have concluded from Friday's better-than-expected jobs report that the Federal Reserve will soon start to taper its purchases of long-term assets. I am heartened by the data showing an improving labor market, but am not so sure that the Fed is on the verge of backing away from its third round of quantitative easing. As I wrote last week, I see a pick-up in growth a year or two ahead. But the near-term evolution of the economy remains uncertain, and it is this outcome on which monetary policy depends. 
Friday's report was decent on the whole, with a total of 265,000 net new jobs, including 195,000 gained in June and 70,000 from upward revisions to April and May. The unemployment rate held steady at 7.6 percent even as more people joined the labor force looking for work (and finding it). Perhaps the most encouraging aspect of the report was that wages rose by 2.2 percent growth over the past year and finally appear to be outpacing inflation (we'll find out for sure with the release of June inflation data on July 16). More jobs and higher wages together mean increased total labor income. This will support consumer spending, which was relatively anemic in 2012 and strengthened only modestly in the first quarter of 2013.
Other details of the report, however, are less positive. While jobs were added, the average gain of just under 200,000 a month from April to June was a slight letdown from the pace of job creation in the first three months of 2013. Job creation in June tilted heavily to part-time employment, and average weekly hours for each worker did not expand as might be expected as a prelude to stronger hiring by employers who push their existing workers a bit harder before bringing on more employees. This was a good jobs report, but not amazing. 
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said at his June 19 press conference that the tapering in quantitative easing would begin "if the incoming data are broadly consistent" with the Fed's forecast. This includes not just labor market gains, but also accelerating growth in gross domestic product and a move of inflation back toward the Fed's 2 percent target rate. The key word here is "if."
Market participants either missed the "if" or believe they know where the data are headed. Yields on 10-year Treasury notes jumped by 20 basis points to 2.7 percent following Friday's jobs report, a full percentage point higher than the yield in early May. Mr. Bernanke discussed the relationship between bond markets, monetary policy and the economy in a speech from March 2006 that is well worth reading today. He explains that long-term bond yields reflect a variety of factors, including market participants' beliefs regarding both the course of monetary policy and the strength of the economy (which in turn affects policies). Higher Treasury yields since May might then be seen as indicating that investors expect a combination of less monetary accommodation and stronger economic growth. Lower supply of credit and more demand for it would both push up interest rates.
Data over the past three months of rising bond yields have suggested that the recovery is continuing, but are far from indicative of an economic breakout. Rather, the bond market movement seems to reflect investors' conclusions about the Fed's intentions: that the start of the taper - the beginning of the end of quantitative easing - is nigh.
In evaluating this conclusion, it is useful to recall the Fed's rationale for announcing the start of its third round of quantitative easing - QE3 for short - last September. In his Aug. 31 speech at the Kansas City Fed's annual Jackson Hole conference, Mr. Bernanke talked about his "grave concern" at "the enormous suffering and waste of human talent" associated with high unemployment, and the specter of long-lasting "structural damage" to the United States economy from its persistence. With the weak labor market weighing heavily on his shoulders, the Fed chairman saw fiscal policy as moving in the wrong direction in both the short term (too much restraint) and on the longer horizon (with a lack of political will to contemplate a credible plan to address the fiscal imbalance over time).
The Fed could not have believed that QE3 would have more than a modest impact in bolstering the economy. Indeed, Jeremy Stein, a Fed governor, said as much in evaluating long-term asset purchases in his initial speech in October 2012. The prospects for QE3 contrasted with the more meaningful impact found by research that examines the two earlier rounds of quantitative easing (especially the original round; QE2 was undertaken more as insurance against the possibility of deflation, which was seen as a risk in late 2010 when the second round of asset purchases was announced). With elevated unemployment posing a grave risk, inflationary pressures indiscernible, and the sequester about to kick in, the Fed saw itself as the only game in town for providing economic support. Hence QE3.
Conditions have improved, but remain far from a robust recovery. With the unemployment rate still elevated, inflationary pressures will remain subdued. This is especially the case when there are 8.2 million people in part-time jobs who would prefer full-time work, on top of the discouraged workers who would be expected to rejoin the labor force as the economy strengthens. Such a rebound in the labor force participation rate, incipient in Friday's data, would keep the unemployment rate elevated and hold back wage gains and inflation.
G.D.P. growth in the second quarter of 2013 appears to have strengthened only modestly from the 1.8 percent first-quarter pace (the first estimate for the second quarter will be released on July 31). An economic expansion 2 to 2.5 percent is certainly a recovery, but is not strong enough to drive a better pace of job creation and rapidly bring down the unemployment rate. And inflation is unlikely to pick up absent a stronger job market that would sustain the wage gains seen in June. A balanced view thus sees the Fed as still data-dependent and in the mode of wait-and-see.

        
Wall Street's Ideal Jobs Gain: Middling
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
A Bad Jobs Report Turns Out to Have Been Wrong
        
Understating Job Growth
        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); INFLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); AVERAGE WORK WEEK (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); CONSUMER SPENDING (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Labor and Jobs; Quantitative Easing; Unemployment; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2013



142 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 470 words

HEADLINE: Basel Report Finds Diverging Bank Views on Risk

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a body of central bankers, said it found significant differences in how some of the world&#8217;s large banks continue to assess risks on their balance sheets. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Regulators are still grappling with how best to rein in banks' appetite for risk.
On Friday, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a body of central bankers, said it had found significant differences in how some of the world's large banks continue to assess risks on their balance sheets. 
The authorities said that 32 banks, in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, all took different views on the level of capital that they believed was necessary to protect against major losses from potential delinquent corporate, sovereign and consumer debts.
The differences form part of the debate surrounding the rules known as Basel III, which the Federal Reserve approved this week.
The rules include requiring major international banks to hold as much as 9 percent in high-quality capital like stock or retained earnings to guard against potential future financial shocks.
The financial services industry has fought to water down the changes, which will mean they must hold back more capital on their balance sheets and reduce their exposure to risky assets.
In the report published on Friday, the Basel Committee said that banks continued to hold differing views on what constituted risky assets. These differences allowed some banks to hold less capital in reserve in case the holdings ran into trouble.
"The considerable variation observed warrants further attention," the chairman of the Basel Committee, Stefan Ingves, said in a statement on Friday. "Information from this study on the relative positions of banks is being used by national supervisors and banks to take action to improve consistency."
The global regulators added that steps might need to be taken to create an international standard for these so-called risk-weighted assets to create a level playing field for investors.
Risk-weighting allows banks to hold less capital in reserve depending on the perceived risk of the underlying asset. Banks typically carry out these calculations themselves under the guidance of the local regulator.
The potential options to improve the system include forcing banks to disclose greater detail on how they calculate risk or defining how much risk is associated with specific types of assets.
International authorities have been working in response to the financial crisis after many of the world's largest banks were found to be undercapitalized when many of their assets turned sour.
While both American and European firms have pared back their exposure to risky lending and used retained earnings to bolster their balance sheets, critics contend that the new regulatory changes still do not force banks to hold enough capital on their balance sheets to protect against future major financial shocks.

        
To Basel's Defenses, the Fed Adds a To-Do List
        
Proposed Guidelines Could Require Banks to Raise Billions in Capital

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Basel Committee on Banking Supervision; Ingves, Stefan; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: Basel Committee on Banking Supervision

PERSON: Ingves, Stefan

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



143 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 5, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 666 words

HEADLINE: Technology Workers Are Young (Really Young)

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: In case you could not figure it out from the cubicle dogs and Nerf guns, a vast number of the workers in the technology industry are young and male. How young may surprise you: a new survey shows the top tech companies have a median work force age up to 15 years below the national average. 

 BODY:
It's well known that technology is a young man's game. Still, it is surprising to see just how young (and how male).
PayScale, a company based in Seattle, has determined that the median age of workers at many of the most successful companies in the technology industry, along with information on gender and years of experience. 
Just six of the 32 companies it looked at had a median age greater than 35 years old. Eight of the companies, the study said, had median employee age of 30 or younger. Women were generally less than 30 percent of the work force, and in fields like semiconductors, represented much less than that. 
While the results may affirm a widely held hunch, they are nonetheless striking: According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, the overall median age of American workers is 42.3 years old. The company with the oldest workers on the PayScale list, Hewlett - Packard, came in at 41 years.
The other five companies with older workers, in descending order of median age, were I.B.M. Global Services (38 years old), Oracle (38), Nokia (36), Dell (37) and Sony (36). 
The seven companies with the youngest workers, ranked from youngest to highest in median age, were Epic Games (26); Facebook (28); Zynga (28); Google (29); and AOL, Blizzard Entertainment, InfoSys, and Monster.com (all 30). According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, only shoe stores and restaurants have workers with a median age less than 30.
Median age means that an equal number of workers are above and below the figure. In large populations, the number is considered representative. PayScale, which surveys many industries, says it covers 3 percent of the American work force, an amount that could yield meaningful results. In this survey, some 21,700 company employees submitted information.
Not surprisingly, the companies with older workers tend to be older companies, because some people still stay with one employer for many years, and over time a company may accumulate more of these people. Cisco Systems has a median worker age of 35, and both Samsung and Microsoft come in at 34. These companies also tend to have workers with a lot more experience.
Younger companies tend to have workers with less time at the firm, which is partly an effect of being new and hiring intensively in recent years. Facebook's median worker has been with the company just 1.1 years, while Intel, I.B.M., Oracle and others come in around six years.
Other factors are also in play, however. "The firms that are growing or innovating around new areas tend to have younger workers," said Katie Bardaro, the lead economist at PayScale. "Older companies that aren't changing with the times get older workers."
One reason for this, she said, was a function of skills. "Baby Boomers and Gen Xers tend to know C# and SQL," she said. C# is a software language, while SQL is a database technology. She added, "Gen Y knows Python, social media, and Hadoop," which are newer versions of those things.
Amazon.com, notably, has a median stay with the company of just one year, a figure Ms. Bardaro ascribed to the intense pace of work there. (The study did not include workers in Amazon's warehouses, where skills and turnover are different.) "We're based in Seattle, and know a lot of people at Amazon," she said. "The consensus is that you are run through a gamut there, make money, burn out and leave." 
The survey was derived from information PayScale gets from individuals who come to PayScale seeking employment information, and volunteer their data to share information from others. PayScale, which works with LinkedIn, sells its data to human resources departments. Ms. Bardaro said her company had also backed up the information with third-party data, to confirm the numbers.

        
A Software Feud Ends, at Least for Today
        
Oracle and Salesforce: a Data-Sharing Deal
        
Google Asks Secret Court for Permission to Publish National Security Request Data
        
I.B.M. Inflates Its Cloud
        
Google Calls U.S. Data Request Disclosures a Step Backward for Users

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); RANKINGS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); OLDER WORKERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (64%); SHOE STORES (50%) Amazon.com Inc; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Computers and the Internet; Facebook Inc; Hiring and Promotion; International Business Machines Corporation; Labor and Jobs; Oracle Corporation; PayScale Inc; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Facebook Inc|FB|NASDAQ; International Business Machines Corporation|IBM|NYSE; Oracle Corporation|ORCL|NASDAQ

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (54%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); INFOSYS LTD (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc; Bureau of Labor Statistics; Facebook Inc; International Business Machines Corporation; Oracle Corporation; PayScale Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); HPQ (NYSE) (56%); MWW (NYSE) (54%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); INFY (PAR) (54%); INFY (NYSE) (54%); INFY (NSE) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; International Business Machines Corporation; IBM; NYSE; Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ; Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ; International Business Machines Corporation; IBM; NYSE; Oracle Corporation; ORCL; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (54%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (54%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



144 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: The Legacy Of the Boomer Boss

BYLINE: By GAR ALPEROVITZ. 
Gar Alperovitz, a professor of political economy at the University of Maryland and a founder of the Democracy Collaborative, is the author of ''What Then Must We Do?: Straight Talk about the Next American Revolution.''

 BODY:
COLLEGE PARK, Md. -- OVER the next decade millions of business owners born during the baby boom will retire. Many, with no obvious succession strategy, will simply sell their companies, the backbone of Main Street economies across the country, to large corporations. All too often the result will be consolidations, plant closures and lost jobs for the people who helped build and sustain their companies for decades.
The boomers should think again: selling to their employees is often a far better way to go -- for both moral and economic reasons. 
Take New Belgium Brewing, based in Fort Collins, Colo., which its chief executive and co-founder, Kim Jordan, sold late last year to its 400-plus employees through what's called an employee stock ownership plan. ''There are few times in life where you get to make choices that will have multigenerational impact,'' she said. ''This is one of those times.''
An ESOP works like this: a company sets up a trust on behalf of the employees, into which it directs a portion of its profits. The trust uses that money to buy the owners' shares, either all at once or over time. To ease the burden of such a large purchase, the employees, through the trust, can buy the company by borrowing against future earnings, with zero upfront costs.
For many owners, the decision isn't just about securing a legacy. It is a relatively easy one to make on financial grounds, too. If the owner sells more than 30 percent of the company to the employees, all capital gains taxes are deferred, provided that the proceeds are invested in American companies.
This is hardly a new idea: more than 10,000 firms with ESOP's now operate successfully, in virtually every sector. Indeed, three million more individuals are now worker-owners of their own businesses than are members of unions in the private sector. They include well-known companies like W. L. Gore & Associates, the maker of Gore-Tex, and the school-picture company Life-Touch, as well as countless smaller companies, some even organized as traditional co-ops.
Most employee-ownership plans are not the result of boomer-age retirements, at least not yet. But that could change soon. Martin Staubus, a consultant for the Rady School of Management, at the University of California, San Diego, estimates that every year 150,000 to 300,000 businesses owned at least in part by boomers become candidates for employee takeovers as their owners hit retirement age. That means that over the next 15 years retiring boomers could help create two to four million new worker-owned businesses nationwide.
Worker ownership is not without difficulties, whether it is the result of an owner's retiring or some other event. The selling price and continuing value of the firm, for instance, depend on an independent fair-market valuation of the company. This can fluctuate depending on the state of the economy, potentially playing havoc with employee wealth.
Tax benefits provided to help transfer ownership have also sometimes been misused. And ESOP's involving large companies can be mind-bogglingly complex. But for smaller, privately owned companies, the challenges are typically well known and easily overcome.
And while there is in theory some tension about the idea of worker-owners and worker representation through unions, many labor organizations are by now well versed in negotiating potential conflicts -- indeed, the United Steelworkers recently decided to actively promote unionized co-op worker-ownership efforts.
Meanwhile, companies in which employees have a direct ownership stake commonly report higher productivity, profits and pension and other benefits than comparable private firms in the same sector -- especially when attention is paid to training workers in self-management.
The truly interesting challenge, however, is to retiring boomers. Selling to employees is harder than selling to an established corporation or private equity company. Not everyone will feel the excitement of a Kim Jordan, whose decision to sell to New Belgium's workers was greeted with cheers from employees. ''We bought it,'' they boasted in a news release. ''The whole shebang.''
Still, choosing to create a more lasting legacy than letting some large corporation take over one's life work has a certain quiet appeal -- especially when it is rewarded with tax benefits.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DANIEL STOLLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUCCESSION PLANS (90%); EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLANS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (79%); CLOSINGS (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (66%)

COMPANY: NEW BELGIUM BREWING CO INC (57%); W L GORE & ASSOCIATES INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (57%); NAICS331491 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING (52%); NAICS325212 SYNTHETIC RUBBER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (52%); SIC2822 SYNTHETIC RUBBER (52%); SIC2821 PLASTICS MATERIALS, SYNTHETIC & RESINS, & NONVULCANIZABLE ELASTOMERS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT COLLINS, CO, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) MARYLAND, USA (90%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



145 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Committee Finds Vast Gap In Banks' Analysis of Risk

BYLINE: By MARK SCOTT

 BODY:
LONDON -- Regulators are still grappling with how best to rein in banks' appetite for risk.
On Friday, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a body of central bankers, said it had found significant differences in how some of the world's large banks continue to assess risks on their balance sheets. 
The authorities said that 32 banks, in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, all took different views on the level of capital that they believed was necessary to protect against major losses from potential delinquent corporate, sovereign and consumer debts.
The differences form part of the debate surrounding the rules known as Basel III, which the Federal Reserve approved this week.
The rules include requiring major international banks to hold as much as 9 percent in high-quality capital like stock or retained earnings to guard against potential future financial shocks.
The financial services industry has fought to water down the changes, which will mean they must hold back more capital on their balance sheets and reduce their exposure to risky assets.
In the report published on Friday, the Basel Committee said that banks continued to hold differing views on what constituted risky assets. These differences allowed some banks to hold less capital in reserve in case the holdings ran into trouble.
''The considerable variation observed warrants further attention,'' the chairman of the Basel Committee, Stefan Ingves, said in a statement on Friday. ''Information from this study on the relative positions of banks is being used by national supervisors and banks to take action to improve consistency.''
The global regulators added that steps might need to be taken to create an international standard for these so-called risk-weighted assets to create a level playing field for investors.
Risk-weighting allows banks to hold less capital in reserve depending on the perceived risk of the underlying asset. Banks typically carry out these calculations themselves under the guidance of the local regulator.
The potential options to improve the system include forcing banks to disclose greater detail on how they calculate risk or defining how much risk is associated with specific types of assets.
International authorities have been working in response to the financial crisis after many of the world's largest banks were found to be undercapitalized when many of their assets turned sour.
While both American and European firms have pared back their exposure to risky lending and used retained earnings to bolster their balance sheets, critics contend that the new regulatory changes still do not force banks to hold enough capital on their balance sheets to protect against future major financial shocks.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); RISK MANAGEMENT (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



146 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NATIONAL BRIEFING | MIDWEST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Michigan: Detroit Sues Insurer Over Casino Money

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG

 BODY:
Detroit has sued a bond insurer, Syncora Guarantee Inc., blaming it for the withholding as much as $11 million a month in casino revenue, Kevyn Orr, the city's emergency manager, said Friday. Mr. Orr was appointed in March to lead the city out of a fiscal crisis that has put it on the brink of bankruptcy. Detroit seeks a court order barring Syncora and other defendants from limiting its access to money from its three casinos. Syncora insures some of the $1.4 billion in ''certificates of participation'' issued by the city to shore up two public employee pension funds as well as swap agreements through which the city hedges interest rates payable on some of the certificates. Casino-derived revenues were pledged to secure the swaps, Mr. Orr said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (88%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (88%); PENSION FUNDS (87%); APPOINTMENTS (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (52%); INTEREST RATES (51%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



147 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: Plans and Forecasts Don't Mix

BYLINE: By CARL RICHARDS

 BODY:
Carl Richards is a certified financial planner in Park City, Utah, and is the director of investor education at the BAM Alliance. His book, ''The Behavior Gap,'' was published this year. His sketches are archived on the Bucks blog. 
''I know you can't time the market. But in your view, where is the market going?''
I still get this question from people, at event after event, even after people have heard me talk about the importance of behavior and how we can't predict short-term market performance.
During a recent trip to South Africa, I got even more specific questions:
Where is the United States economy headed?
Where are interest rates headed?
Is now a good time to invest in Japan?
Is the housing recovery for real?
Here's the thing: I totally understand why people are asking questions about timing. First, there's an assumption that having an opinion -- whether it's about the market, the economy, or Japan -- makes someone look smart. Being able to talk about these subjects must mean you have more money and your investments do better, right?
Not true.
Second, if you don't talk about sports or politics that only leaves economic issues (Again, not true. It just feels that way). Now maybe you like to talk about all three, but it's reached the point where talking about the economy and markets is an official spectator sport. We all feel capable of playing.
And while it may be fun to chat about what the market might do next at your neighborhood barbeque, don't kid yourself. What we know about the market comes down to a bunch of guesses, also known as forecasts.
Forecasts about the future of the market are very likely to be wrong, and we don't know by how much and in which direction. So why would we use these guesses to make incredibly important decisions about our money?
That's right. You shouldn't because you know better, and relying on what's really just a hunch is an all but guaranteed recipe for financial pain.
Instead of relying on guesses to dictate our financial decisions, we need to focus on the investing basics:
Figure out where you are today
Make a guess about where you want to go
Buy diversified, low-cost investments that have the best shot of getting there
Behave for a long time
Obviously, this list isn't nearly as interesting as speculating about whether the Dow will break 16,000 before the end of the year. But it is a list that will keep you from doing something dumb, like thinking it's a good idea to bet your portfolio on a guess.
So, just in case I've left you in doubt, please don't forget: Plans and guesses don't mix!
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARL RICHARDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL PLANNING (90%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



148 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Designing Dashboards With Fewer Distractions

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC. 
Tara Siegel Bernard, whose Your Money column normally appears on this page, is away.

 BODY:
DETROIT -- The engineers working on Honda's new Acura MDX luxury sport utility vehicle were obsessed with giving customers more -- more space in the rear seat, more fuel economy from a high-tech engine, and above, all, more apps, maps and connectivity.
But there was one feature they wanted less of: buttons.
In an effort to simplify the newest Honda vehicle, which went on sale in June, the product team was determined to streamline the instrument panel. For the new MDX model, more than 30 buttons have been eliminated. The change was emblematic of the challenge confronting automakers in the age of the connected car. How does a car company give customers the technology they crave without overwhelming them with complicated controls that can impair their ability to drive safely?
''We are trying to give our customers what they want in a way that's going to be safe and make sense,'' said Steven Feit, a senior Honda engineer on the project. ''That's the balance we are trying to get to.'' 
The evolution of the automobile has had many milestones, from the advent of now-common features like air-conditioning and seat belts to the development of hybrid models that switch seamlessly between gas and electric power.
Now the car has become a mobile computer packed with new entertainment options, Internet access and a dizzying array of apps that help drivers avoid traffic jams, find parking spots and locate the nearest coffee shop.
Federal regulators are struggling to keep pace. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, which oversees auto safety, recently issued voluntary guidelines for carmakers to limit the visual and mental distractions that new technology can create.
The industry is acutely aware of the issue. ''We understand the stakes,'' said Gloria Bergquist, the vice president for public affairs at the Alliance of Automobile Manufacturers, a Washington trade organization. ''We can't stop what consumers want in their cars, so we have to make the technology less risky to use.''
State of the art technology was once limited to luxury carmakers like BMW and Mercedes-Benz. But now, basic connectivity -- such as linking a cellphone to a vehicle's sound system -- can be found in some of the most inexpensive, mainstream models.
And carmakers have learned some hard lessons about pushing ahead with new, unproved technology. Ford Motor, for example, has had to repeatedly revise its popular Sync system to mitigate distractions and make it easier for consumers to use. In Sync's most recent revamping, Ford will introduce buttons, reversing the focus on touch screens and underscoring the challenge that automakers face in finding the right balance for the driver.
Each new version of a car presents an opportunity to correct previous missteps. The new MDX represents what Honda says is an effort to create ''synergy between man and machine.''
''Customers want to do other things while they are driving,'' Mr. Feit said. ''And they are used to consumer electronics, like phones and computer tablets, keeping up with what they want.''
The new MDX has built-in cell technology that not only delivers a wide range of entertainment and Internet functions but also connects drivers directly to an Acura concierge who can locate a nearby restaurant and make reservations for dinner.
A voice-recognition feature allows drivers to select a destination for the navigation system or choose a phone number to call without taking their eyes off the road and hands off the wheel.
Eliminating physical buttons on the car's console was crucial to improving safety. Too many buttons created too many decisions for a driver to make while the car was in motion. The new model limits buttons to major functions, like controlling the temperature.
Other features are available on a touch screen. The intent is to allow drivers to customize their car by selecting entertainment options on the screen while the vehicle is stationary, and then gain access to them by pressing a single button as they drive.
A second screen is devoted to navigation. The system can be controlled by voice commands, or destinations can be selected manually. But like many other automakers, Honda prevents drivers from changing the destination by hand while the car is moving. The MDX must be at a full stop or parked before that can be done.
''We wanted to restrict access for entering addresses until you're stopped,'' Mr. Feit said. ''But you can control it by voice while you're moving.''
As the variety of data and entertainment options grows in the car, manufacturers are increasing the safety features that help drivers avoid accidents. Because there are more distractions built into the vehicle, the car has to assist more in the act of driving.
The MDX, for example, has sensors that warn drivers of potential collisions, alert them when they stray from their lane on the road, and apply the brakes to reduce speed when an accident seems imminent. An advanced option package includes adaptive cruise control, which can automatically stop the car if the vehicle in front of it suddenly brakes to a full stop.
Where does it end? Automakers and technology companies like Google are working toward perfecting the self-driving car, in which computer systems control the actual operation of the vehicle.
Regulators are concerned that automated driving could create as many problems as it solves. Warning drivers when they stray out of a lane or get too close to another vehicle helps avoid accidents. But letting a computer drive the car is a line the industry is hesitant to cross.
''Consumers are still dubious about fully automated driving,'' Ms. Bergquist said. ''We believe that they still want to be in the driver's seat.''
But being in the driver's seat is changing with every new model. Consumers increasingly expect to be as connected in their vehicle as they are on a cellphone walking down the street.
At a recent telematics conference in a Detroit suburb, dozens of supplier firms showed off the latest gadgetry for cars. Whether it was new wireless systems or mapping functions or apps that find parking, companies were rushing to bring new services and features to cars.
One of the companies, called Here, is perfecting maps that are constantly updated with traffic information and navigation options.
''What we are seeing is the development of a car that is aware and understands the road and the environment around you,'' said Dean VonBank, a vice president at Here.
Automakers are sifting through the options that technology firms are eager to install in their vehicles.
But more data for drivers could raise the level of distraction. And that is a trade-off that carmakers are becoming increasingly aware of.
''What does the customer really want?'' said Jim Keller, a Honda engineer who studies distracted driving. ''They want to do more in their car with less effort and complexity.''
And as complex a machine as is the Acura MDX, one of its prime selling points is pretty basic. The driver can be more connected than ever -- but with fewer buttons to push.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A new system being developed by Visteon responds to a driver's gestures. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICK KING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 On the left, part of the instrument panel in a 2011 Acura MDX. The 2014 version of the MDX, right, has many fewer controls, an attempt by Honda to give drivers the technology they want in a way, one engineer said, ''that's going to be safe and make sense.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HONDA) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (75%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (75%); F (NYSE) (75%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (75%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (75%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



149 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 244 words

HEADLINE: Lagging Public Sector

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS

 BODY:
Private sector employment in the United States is growing at about the same rate it did during the best days of the last decade. 
The difference is in the government. It continues to shed workers.
The above chart shows the annual change in employment for the private sector, and for government jobs, since the end of 2002.
Over the last 12 months, private sector employment rose 2 percent. That is down a little from the 2.5 percent rate early last year, but it is about the same as the rate of growth in the fall of 2005.
But government employment continues to fall. It is down 0.2 percent, which is the best year-over-year showing since 2009, when the government cutbacks were starting to be felt.
On a monthly basis, over the last 12 months the economy added an average of 191,000 jobs a month in the private sector, and cut public sector employment by 3,000 jobs a month.
Politicians lamenting the slow pace of recovery might, logically, look for ways to increase hiring in the sector that is lagging the most.
(A note on the data: I used figures before seasonal adjustments, which is possible since annual changes presumably take care of seasonal adjustment. And I dropped from the numbers the temporary surge in government jobs caused by hiring for the 2010 census. Without that change, there would have been a rise in government employment in 2010 and a much steeper decline in 2011.)
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL SERVICES (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



150 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIX; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: An Employment Rate Uptick

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
The share of American adults with jobs rose slightly in June, to 58.7 percent. That matches the highest level since the end of the recession in 2009, but remains well below the prevailing level before the recession. 
The chart shows the long-term trend: a sharp drop, a prolonged stagnation and maybe, just maybe, the beginning of a recovery.
The employment rate has not moved much in recent years because job growth since the end of the recession has basically kept pace with population growth.
The more familiar unemployment rate has declined significantly, but it counts people as unemployed only if they are looking for work. It has declined because people stopped looking, not because they started working.
Thus the importance of tracking the employment rate.
Economists, including Federal Reserve officials, say they expect that as the economy continues to grow, and the unemployment rate continues to decline, discouraged workers will start seeking -- and finding -- work again.
Until that happens, however, the recovery is incomplete.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TRENDS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



151 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Homes Keep Rising in West Despite Growing Wildfire Threat

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
The death of 19 firefighters in Arizona this week highlights what has become a fact of life in the West: Every summer, smoke fills the big skies yet people continue to build in the places that burn most. More people live in these areas, and many balk at controls on how and where to build.
''There's a self-selection factor in there -- people who don't want the government to do things tend to move to places where the government isn't around to do things,'' said Don Elliott, a senior consultant at Clarion Associates, a land-use consulting firm.
Just as many Easterners resist stepping back from their increasingly flooded coast, Westerners build where they want to build. 
In a report last September, CoreLogic, a business analytics company, estimated that 740,000 homes in 13 Western states, with a total value of $136 billion, were at high or very high risk of burning up. Nationwide, Oregon and Wisconsin researchers found, 98.5 million people lived in 43.7 million homes in what is known as the wildland-urban interface or WUI (pronounced woo-ee) in 2010.
The sentiment that people should build where and how they choose is embedded in the Bitterroot Valley of western Montana, where a series of infamous 2000 blazes helped usher in the era of ever-more-dangerous Western wildfires.
Seventy houses were destroyed, and one flare-up left Becky Koon, a landscape designer and local school volunteer, briefly frantic over the fate of her 13-year-old daughter, who, oblivious to the sudden danger, was sunbathing at a friend's house. The girls were rescued, and Ms. Koon has since tried to help people there lower their risk by reaching out with information about brush- and tree-clearing and other ways to make their homes safer.
But she remains frustrated. ''It's a mixed bag,'' was the best she could say of the reception her neighbors in Ravalli County, Mont., had given her efforts. This is a county whose voters decisively rejected a proposal to initiate local zoning and that prides itself on its log cabins and the fervent belief that government should stay out of people's lives.
Almost 15,700 of Ravalli County's 19,000 homes are built where fires are likely, according to 2010 data compiled by researchers at the University of Wisconsin and Oregon State University. That is nearly double the 8,062 houses in the same area in 1990. Currently, more than 32,000 of the 40,212 people in the county live in the WUI.
Yet in Ravalli County, the Board of Commissioners refused to adopt new maps of this interface, in the face of objections from homeowners and real estate agents that it would depress property values, increase insurance rates and lead to regulation.
As Greg Chilcott, a county commissioner, said in an interview: ''Regulatory intrusion is a concern. We have somewhat adopted the philosophy, in my mind, that informing citizens of the risk of their choices as to where they build their homes is what our job is -- rather than regulating them out of their homes or away from their lands.''
Many came from urban areas, he said. ''Their romantic vision of the house or cabin in the woods was great -- especially when they drive up the gravel road in April and May,'' he said. ''Then rolls in July and August when the gravel road turns to dust and the smoke and flames are threatening their dream home. They didn't understand the seasons in the Rocky Mountain Northwest.''
Some, he said, accept the risks and the consequences. Others ''will demand to be made whole by someone else,'' often the federal government, whose forest management is sometimes blamed for residential losses.
Ravalli County's resistance to controls either by governments or insurers is hardly unique among the Western States.
In fire-prone areas of California, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona, the increase in wildfires has been exacerbated by climate-change-driven droughts and beetle infestations that turn evergreen forests into red tree graveyards. But construction has continued apace.
''Up until 2006 to 2008, the trend accelerated,'' said Roger Hammer, a sociology professor at Oregon State University who has studied the issue for years. He called the recession ''a speed bump'' that ''isn't going to change the trend at all.''
But some of the more heavily inhabited places have started to change. The fierceness of recent fires in places like liberal Boulder, Colo., and conservative Colorado Springs changed minds. This year, Boulder required fire-resistant construction materials in such areas. Colorado Springs used WUI maps as the basis for new controls on hillside construction.
And Colorado's governor, John W. Hickenlooper, this year appointed two public-private task forces to look at the issue of how to deal with fire risks.
''One of the things we're looking at is, should there be fee assessments if you're living in that area, to support wildfire-fighting efforts?'' said Kelly Campbell, a member of one of the commissions and a vice president of the Property Casualty Insurers Association of America.
Another, she said, is ''if we are providing insurance at a rate that is less than the risk, are we encouraging development in an area we might not want to?'' But she indicated that until recently the question of wildfire risks was low on the insurance industry's agenda, since fire losses make up perhaps 2 percent of total losses, and wildfires even less.
Some communities, like Ruidoso, N.M., have aggressively used state and federal grant money to inform residents -- many there only in summer -- about mitigating fire risks. The village has stringent requirements for construction and management of trees and brush.
''Some local communities are getting the word,'' said Stephen J. Pyne, a historian and expert on Western fires. ''But we've got 30-plus years of backlog, of communities that need to be retrofitted, where we have to go back in and put in building codes and zoning and create a fire-resilient landscape. We are not going to banish fire.''
Even in the wake of a tragedy like the Yarnell Hill fire in Arizona, northwest of Phoenix, lessons about lessening risk ''are not being learned,'' said Ray Rasker, executive director of Headwaters Economics, a research group in Bozeman, Mont.
About 16 percent of wildland-urban interface has been developed, he said. ''But we're not even having a national conversation about the other 84 percent.'' He added that ''the reason that local governments are not responding and not restricting development is that they don't bear much of the cost'' of fighting the fires and cleaning up afterward. ''The bulk is borne by the federal taxpayer.''
Indeed, in Ravalli County, Becky Koon pushed to have residents thin out combustible trees and brush on their property. ''I was amazed at how many people believe it's the government's job to do this,'' she said. Symbolic of the mixed success of her dozen years in the trenches is her neighborhood in the hamlet of Sula.
She recently cut down 20 beetle-killed trees, she said, and one neighbor is doing the same thing. But on the other side of her house, she said, drying trees remain untouched. ''For some of the landowners, it's summer property,'' she said. ''They don't do anything.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In the summer of 2000, drought-fueled wildfires devastated the Bitterroot Valley in Montana. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Home building in 2007 near Hamilton, Mont., in a ''wildland-urban interface'' area. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (74%); ZONING (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); HOME SECURITY (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); HOMEOWNERS (73%); HOME PRICES (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%)

COMPANY: CORELOGIC INC (56%)

TICKER: CLGX (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



152 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Battle Continues in a Documentary Sequel on the Perils of Fracking

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
Muckraking documentaries don't often spawn sequels, but a lot has happened in the world of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, since Josh Fox released ''Gasland'' in 2010.
The message of Mr. Fox's ''Gasland Part II'' is that while the battles over the investigation and regulation of fracking wax and wane -- with the anti-regulatory forces currently on top -- thousands of additional wells that use this controversial natural-gas drilling technique are being sunk.
''Gasland Part II,'' which had its premiere at the Tribeca Film Festival and is being shown on Monday by HBO, paints a convincing picture: homeowners at the mercy of the oil and gas industry wait while government agencies make tentative moves toward regulation that eventually come to nothing or are reversed. 
And this was before the Environmental Protection Agency last month walked away from its promise to investigate water contamination in Pavillion, Wyo., which is shown in the film as one of the most significant victories for aggrieved homeowners.
Mr. Fox works in the first-person style of colorful mudslingers like Michael Moore and Morgan Spurlock, but his tone is more sad and mordant, his blank face a melancholy emblem of the hopelessness of the situation. He is constantly present in the film, taking on a kind of minstrel's or bard's role that's emphasized by shots of him strumming a banjo in the woods near his Pennsylvania home. At one point he celebrates his own doggedness by beginning to run the closing credits before announcing that no, the story isn't over yet.
The original ''Gasland'' grew out of a company's effort to pay Mr. Fox for exploration rights to his land, which lies above the Marcellus Shale formation and its huge reserves of natural gas. ''Part II'' briefly recapitulates his personal history and revisits communities that were featured in ''Gasland'' -- where shots of methane-laced water being set on fire are still de rigueur -- and traces the legal and political fights of the intervening years, citing studies and statistics attesting to the health dangers of fracking.
Putting all of this material into an economical yet coherent package would be a challenge for any documentarian, and organization is not the specialty of Mr. Fox, who directed, wrote and edited ''Gasland Part II.'' The film runs to two hours and its anecdotal, hopscotch style starts to wear.
And, as with ''Gasland,'' there are questions, large and small, that can nag at you. Would it have been a bad idea to include at least one interview with a homeowner who professes to support drilling? Did the dog with the missing leg somehow lose the limb because of fracking, as a dramatic cut would have us believe?
Most of Mr. Fox's material isn't open to question, however. Recordings of a gas industry conference at which public relations managers are told to study the Army's counterinsurgency manual -- because ''we are dealing with an insurgency'' when it comes to protesters and angry homeowners -- are both hilarious and horrifying. Mr. Fox's account of the Pennsylvania government's hiring of a private company to monitor fracking protesters, an episode not widely covered outside the state, is particularly valuable.
It's hard to take issue with Mr. Fox's resigned conclusion that economic and political forces will soon spread fracking around the world, no matter how harmful critics say it may be to the environment and our health.
To provide a glimpse of the hardball tactics he's talking about, Mr. Fox runs a Google search for his own name and puts the result on screen. There, directly above his Wikipedia entry, we can see who has bought ''JoshFox'' as a search phrase: a gas-industry trade group offering the ''Truth About Gasland.''
Gasland Part II
HBO, Monday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times; 8, Central time.
Directed by Josh Fox; Mr. Fox, Trish Adlesic and Deborah Wallace, producers; Matthew Sanchez, co-producer; Mr. Fox and Mr. Sanchez, cinematographers; Mr. Fox, editor. For HBO; Sheila Nevins, executive producer; Nancy Abraham, senior producer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gasland Part II, a film by Josh Fox, will be on HBO Monday night at 9, Eastern and Pacific times
 8, Central time. Above, a scene with a hose spraying flaming water contaminated with methane gas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HBO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (92%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); METHANE (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (76%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (70%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (70%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); FILM (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



153 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: The Reset That Wasn't

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROJANSKY and NIKOLAS GVOSDEV

 BODY:
Writing in these pages over the past two years, we have warned that despite the 2009 ''reset,'' relations between the United States and Russia continued to drift downward.
Secretary of State John Kerry's visit to Moscow in May raised a glimmer of hope that the relations could be improving, but the frosty tone and negative body language of the meetings between Presidents Barack Obama and Vladimir Putin in Northern Ireland last month signaled nothing of the sort.
Today there can be no doubt that the relationship has deteriorated dramatically, apparently hostage to a downward spiral of crisis and retaliation: last year's pre-election scapegoating, the imposition of new reciprocal sanctions, a worsening proxy war in Syria and a potentially endless reservoir of recrimination over spies and dissidents, to name just a few symptoms. 
The saga of Edward Snowden in the transit lounge of Moscow's Sheremetyevo Airport is just the latest crisis to suck up the oxygen in the U.S.-Russia relationship. Moscow and Washington are hardly able to conduct productive negotiations on any of the important questions that divide them.
The failure of U.S.-Russia dialogue is an urgent problem for both sides.
Russia plays a central role on a wider range of issues vital to American security, prosperity and global influence than any other state, including China. The United States and Russia are still uniquely important actors in both the Euro-Atlantic and Asia-Pacific regions, and are unmatched in their capacity to address global challenges such as climate change, emerging cybersecurity threats, or the potential effects of pandemic disease.
Failure to cooperate effectively has imposed a heavy cost in wasted opportunities. Imagine what Americans and Russians might have achieved together had they not wasted time undermining one another. One notable area where cooperation continues -- collaboration in maintaining the international presence in space -- gives a sense of what might have been.
Can we salvage the situation? Having just completed two days of intensive dialogue with Russian counterparts in the 53-year-old Dartmouth Conference format, we believe the answer remains yes.
Frank and open negotiations between Moscow and Washington still offer the best prospect for resolving differences over difficult issues. Yet the job has become much tougher than it was two years ago.
Rather than merely launching or reviving negotiations on such issues as ballistic missile defenses or human rights, we should now invest time and attention to repair more fundamental aspects of our relationship and the nature of our interaction.
Perceptions matter. Even two decades after the end of the Cold War, Russians perceive the United States as hegemonic and hypocritical, while Americans often dismiss Russia as irrelevant and the Russian state as a caricature of autocracy and illegitimacy.
These beliefs color the bilateral interaction. On Syria, for example, the United States has approached negotiations with Moscow by pushing Russia to abandon its approach even when Russians express the justified concern that the U.S. side has not offered a sound alternative strategy.
Above all, Russia fears being marginalized in the international environment of the 21st century, and so while engagement is essential, each side must come to the table with genuine openness to the other's concerns.
Beyond politics, the foundations of the relationship remain disturbingly anemic. Despite some progress since 2009, persistent roadblocks to free travel and investment make it difficult for interested private parties to build enduring bilateral ties. In both countries, these constraints have led to mounting fatigue among those in the business community and civil society who should be the strongest advocates of close relations. Some well-meaning Americans now caution Obama against squandering more political capital to salvage a ''reset'' the Russian side never fully understood or embraced.
For either side to give up now would be tragic. The major problems of our era demand full engagement not only from Moscow and Washington, but from Brussels, Delhi, Beijing and the rest of the Group of 20 major economies, a grouping Russia will host in St. Petersburg in September.
Positive U.S.-Russia relations may not guarantee wider consensus, but it is surely essential. A deteriorating U.S.-Russia relationship only deepens the current division in the G-20 between the Euro-Atlantic nations of the north and west and the rising and resurgent powers of the south and east.
Putin and Obama don't need to become friends. But they need to show that the relationship matters, put an end to destructive cycles of provocation and response and take steps to sustain long-term foundations in joint investment, travel and exchanges.
If they do not, U.S.-Russia relations will drift into a mode of perpetual confrontation and the opportunity to solve urgent global challenges cooperatively will slip away for good.
Matthew A. Rojansky is the incoming director of the Kennan Institute at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars. Nikolas Gvosdev is a professor of national security affairs at the U.S. Naval War College.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (66%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (65%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (65%); EPIDEMICS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (88%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); SYRIA (91%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



154 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 393 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Close Higher in Wake of Jobs Report

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks on Wall Street closed higher on Friday as investors weighed whether a stronger-than-expected rise in United States jobs figures meant the Federal Reserve would rein in its monetary stimulus sooner rather than later. 
By the end of trading all three major indexes -- the Standard & Poor's 500-share index, the Dow Jones industrial average and the Nasdaq composite -- were 1 percent higher.
United States employers added 195,000 jobs in June and hiring was more robust in the two previous months than earlier estimated, a Labor Department report said. The unemployment rate, however, remained at a relatively high 7.6 percent.
The report suggests growth is increasing in the world's largest economy and that the Federal Reserve would likely begin winding down its monetary stimulus in the autumn.
Some investors took that as good news, having worried that the Fed might act earlier. But it disappointed others who appeared to have hoped the Fed would delay the move until next year.
The program has been behind market gains in recent years and investors have in recent weeks fretted over what will happen as it is wound down.
Harm Bandholz, analyst at UniCredit bank, said the implications of the figures were that the ''tapering'' of the Fed stimulus is getting closer. But the lack of a further drop in the unemployment rate means the Fed is unlikely to be aggressive in tightening the money taps.
Europe shares ended the day lower. Britain's FTSE 100 lost early gains to close 0.7 percent lower. Germany's DAX slumped 2.4 percent and France's CAC-40 shed 1.5 percent.
Global markets jumped higher on Thursday after the European Central Bank and the Bank of England both said their interest rates would remain low for the foreseeable future. That eliminated concerns that they might follow the Fed in tightening their easy money policies this year, triggering a market rally.
In Asia Friday, Tokyo's Nikkei 225 closed up 2.1 percent to 14,309.97 and Hong Kong's Hang Seng added 1.9 percent to 20,854.67 as investors there caught up with the rally in Europe the previous day.
Taipei's TAIEX jumped 1.4 percent to 8,001.82 while Sydney's S&P/ASX 200 edged up 1 percent to 4,841.70 and China's Shanghai Composite posted a small gain of 0.1 percent to 2,007.29.
Benchmark crude for August delivery rose 2 percent to $103.22 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (70%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (65%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (53%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (53%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (66%) EAST CHINA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); CHINA (79%); HONG KONG (79%); FRANCE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%); ASIA (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



155 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: A Demand for Safety, but Not on Their Dime

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
GRANTS PASS, Ore. -- It might be well established by now that money cannot buy happiness. But can it buy public safety?
If you ask Sgt. Todd Moran of the Grants Pass police, the answer is unquestionably yes. Burglaries were up almost 70 percent last year in his city of 35,000 about an hour north of the California border. Theft cases, up almost 80 percent. And at least part of the reason, he said, is an awareness by criminals that their actions are increasingly without consequences in cash-starved Josephine County, where the jail the city depends on is mostly closed for lack of money.
Even a felony suspect arrested with stolen goods or drugs in hand is usually just given a citation and released. Better financing for the county's jails and prosecutors is the only way forward, Sergeant Moran said. 
''It's just broken,'' he said as he drove through town on a recent afternoon patrol.
Now drive an hour south and meet Sam Nichols and Glenn Woodbury, who volunteer with a group called Citizens Against Crime. They say that financial troubles are in fact strengthening the community and that citizen crime patrols like theirs are proving that money -- meaning higher taxes -- is not the solution.
They began patrolling the back roads of the county last summer after staffing at the sheriff's office was gutted by budget cuts. With local residents on watch, crime rates in their area have fallen to near zero, said Mr. Nichols, a retired marina manager, as he drove on a recent evening, with Mr. Woodbury in the passenger seat shining a spotlight into the woods and winding dark driveways.
''Eleven months without a reported theft,'' Mr. Nichols said, a handgun strapped to his hip, as an orange light flashed on the roof.
Concerns about crime and taxes are civic constants in America. And questions about the limits of citizen response have come under intense focus this summer during the trial of George Zimmerman, accused of murdering an unarmed teenager, Trayvon Martin, while on volunteer patrol last year at a housing complex in Florida.
But the debate here goes much deeper, to the question of what government is for and how community is to be defined.
With the fiscal year that started on July 1, the Josephine County Sheriff's Office now has exactly one deputy left available for general calls in a county of 83,000 people -- down from a high of 22 at full staffing a few years ago. Citizen applications to carry a concealed weapon, meanwhile, rose 49 percent last year, according to county records.
At grocery stores in Grants Pass, stopping and citing shoplifters -- sometimes with whole carts of beer or food in tow -- have become part of the daily law enforcement routine.
''I hold my breath, every day, for everything,'' said Sheriff Gil Gilbertson in an interview in his office, where images of John Wayne lined the walls.
The causes of Josephine County's plight are convoluted and complex, and echoed in varying degrees across a swath of Oregon timber country that was scarred a century ago by a weird historical wrinkle: the collapse of the Oregon and California, or O&C, Railroad. Around World War I, the railroad's lands were taken over by the federal government, leaving almost two-thirds of Josephine County, which is about the size of Rhode Island, in federal ownership. And since the federal government pays no property taxes, Congress established a system channeling revenues from the sale of timber, which the county has in abundance.
But as federal timber harvests have been reduced, the lush payments that kept property taxes low have fallen to a trickle. And a federal stopgap payment measure to make up for the timber money was phased out last year. County residents, meanwhile, have voted multiple times, most recently in May, against raising their property taxes to resolve the shortfall.
''It's a slow-motion disaster,'' said Bruce A. Weber, a professor of agricultural and resource economics at Oregon State University and the director of the Rural Studies Program. And with federal spending programs in retreat and the state budget under continued stress, he said, no fix is easy.
Senator Ron Wyden, a Democrat from Oregon, is working on a package of bills that would expand what he called ''sustainable'' levels of timber cutting -- and thus tax revenue -- to Josephine and the other O&C counties. But that long-term relief would be years away. In the meantime, he said in an interview, he hopes to get a temporary financing package through the House and Senate by the end of this year. The State Legislature in Salem is also considering emergency rescue plans.
Keith O. Heck, a county commissioner, said he fears that the county could break apart into balkanized camps of self-government, each on its own lookout, if a fix to the problem is not found soon.
''Freedom demands structure,'' he said. ''If you don't have some structure to that freedom, there's nothing that is free -- everything just becomes a crapshoot and it's just who's got the biggest dice.''
At the Grants Pass Liquor Store, it all comes down to whether customers feel safe, said Jack Ingvaldson, the owner. Lately, he said, some do not.
''We have homeless people sitting in the alleyway -- they drink, urinate, defecate, fornicate -- whatever they can get away with,'' he said. And a ticket or citation from a police officer? They laugh and stay put. ''They don't care -- they know there's nowhere to put them,'' he said.
Some residents said they believe the crime statistics and stories are being exaggerated, or used for political effect, if and when another property tax increase is proposed on the ballot. Mr. Woodbury of the Citizens Against Crime group, for one, said he thinks it will not work.
''We're among thousands of people in the country that are just to the point of not ever voting for another tax, whether it be public safety, or any type of an increase,'' he said.
Even without a resurgent timber-cutting plan, there are already worries that balkanized camps of armed residents could create new tensions. On a recent morning, for example, Sheriff Gilbertson was called to investigate a complaint that someone had fired shots at a crew of loggers. The gunman was gone by the time the sheriff arrived. But the encounter, he said, gave him another reason to worry. The loggers said they planned to return to the job armed next time, ready for self-defense.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Because of cuts to law enforcement in Josephine County, Ore., volunteers like Glenn Woodbury, top, of Citizens Against Crime, have taken up patrols. A meeting for the citizen group Securing Our Safety, above. (A9)
 Sheriff Gil Gilbertson's office has one deputy available for calls in a county of 83,000 people. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THOMAS PATTERSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) MAP: Josephine County has struggled financially as federal timber money has been reduced. (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LARCENY & THEFT (90%); SHERIFFS (89%); COUNTIES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); GRANTS & GIFTS (79%); BUDGETS (78%); FELONIES (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); BURGLARY (77%); PROPERTY CRIMES (77%); SHOPLIFTING (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (74%); ARRESTS (72%); MURDER (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



156 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Titanium Fills Vital Role For Boeing and Russia

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER

 BODY:
VERKHNAYA SALDA, Russia -- Boeing needs to make its airliners lighter, and for that it needs titanium. And for that lightweight and strong metal, the American aircraft maker comes to this small city in the Ural Mountains.
At the Avisma titanium foundry, a once-secret factory that made nuclear missile parts during the cold war, titanium ribs for Boeing airplanes are stacked in piles like lumber. In an annex, a Boeing and Avisma joint venture called Ural Boeing Manufacturing grinds forged parts destined for America. A third of all Boeing jet landing gear assemblies are made with titanium beams from Russia.
The Russians make titanium parts that are unseen but no less important on planes like the new 787 Dreamliner and the workaday commuter airplane, the 737. 
Boeing buys so much titanium from Russia -- the airplane maker plans $18 billion in purchases over the coming decades -- that it now researches new alloys with the Russians. In Moscow, a thousand miles to the west, a team of 1,400 aerospace engineers designs airframes and wings, in part using Russian titanium components.
That titanium is taking off is a bright spot for Russia's struggling aerospace industry. It is as welcome for Boeing. With the new Dreamliner airplane, Boeing took a leap into new technologies and a wider global network of suppliers. The strategy went spectacularly astray with a new lithium-ion battery made in Japan. The risk of battery fires forced Boeing to ground the entire fleet for months.
But the Russian titanium strategy is paying off. Reliance on Russian titanium, thought it comes with geopolitical risks given tensions between the United States and Russia, is making the lightweight metal more economical, so Boeing uses more. Reducing the weight of planes makes them more economical to operate and thus more attractive to the airlines. The Avisma factory, deep in a pine forest, makes 35 percent of all titanium for Boeing civilian airplanes.
''There are parts that only we make. Nobody else,'' Mikhail V. Voevodin, the factory director and a part owner, said.
Titanium parts are devilishly difficult to make. In the foundry's forge, gigantic circular furnaces rise along the walls of the main smelting hall, like the pipes of some volcanic organ in a cathedral from hell, six stories high. Electricity melts the metal in these vacuum tubes.
Gigantic struts, poles and sheets are heated until they glow red and are plunged into water baths, where they are banged with hydraulic hammers weighing five tons. They emerge amazingly strong.
''Russia is a critical partner for 787 titanium parts,'' Sergey Kravchenko, the director of Boeing's office in Russia, said in a written response to questions. The factory ''has the largest in the world press for titanium forgings and Boeing takes full advantage of this unique capability,'' he wrote.
Russians began using titanium in Vostok, the space capsule Yuri Gagarin flew in 1961. By the 1970s, Soviet generals had taken a shine to the metal. A secret program began, requiring incredible resources. In addition to airplanes, the Soviets would make submarines from titanium.
A half-dozen Alfa, Mike and Papa class attack submarines came out with hulls that were 30 percent titanium by weight, according to a museum at the factory. Each required more than 2,000 tons of the metal. Light and strong, the subs, called ''golden fish,'' could travel at 44 knots, or 50 miles per hour, underwater.
This history allowed Boeing to be assured of a stable Russian supply. Besides Russia and other former Soviet states, only four countries smelt it in industrial quantities: the United States, Germany, Japan and China.
That cold war experience gave Avisma knowledge and astounding capacity. It once produced 90,000 tons a year, more than the rest of the world combined in the 1970s. The factory now makes about 32,000 tons, though of a higher grade. Over all, Avisma produces 45 percent of the world's aerospace titanium.
Cooperation between Boeing and the Russians tightened after 2007, when Russian Technologies, a government conglomerate, took over the foundry. Russian Technologies sought to revive the Russian military industry by finding civilian buyers for dual-use products. It was eager to sell to Boeing as well as to Airbus, Boeing's main rival. The factory also supplies Embraer, Bombardier and engine makers.
For Boeing, the alliance with Russia's aerospace industry extends beyond titanium purchases. Supported by a United States government worried that unemployed Russian aerospace and rocket engineers were working for rogue states, Boeing opened a design center in Moscow in the 1990s. That center employs engineers on short-term leave from the Russian companies Ilyushin, Sukhoi and Khrunichev, a maker of the space capsules and satellites.
Much of the value is created in the smelting of alloys. Pure titanium costs about $7 a pound. Blended with zirconium, nickel and other alloys for aerospace parts, however, it can cost more than $150 a pound. The Moscow tech center has three patents for such alloys.
Avisma is the rare profitable Russian manufacturer. Russian Technologies sold a controlling stake to managers last year; Avisma's shares trade on Russia's Micex stock exchange. Its market capitalization hovers around $2 billion.
Avisma also still works for the Russian military. In a warehouse of rocket and airplane parts, huge titanium body rings for a Bulova rocket, Russia's latest intercontinental ballistic missile, are stacked in a big uneven heap, like a serving of onion rings for the end of the world. (Most consumer goods of titanium, like golf clubs and mountain-climbing ice axes, are made in China of cheaper, unalloyed metal.)
Three years ago, Avisma started a sideline in medical titanium for implants, which quickly grew to capture about a quarter of this specialty market worldwide.
It is all the same for the factory, Mr. Voevodin, the director, said. The same process creates stamped parts. The only difference is that once it comes out of this gigantic Russia forge in the mountains, ''it goes into a person, not an airplane.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Titanium rolls at the Avisma foundry in Verkhnaya Salda, Russia. The plant was once a secret producer of nuclear missile parts.
 At the foundry, ''There are parts that only we make. Nobody else,'' says Mikhail V. Voevodin, plant director and a part owner. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OLGA KRAVETS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIRLINES (89%); COLD WAR (78%); AEROSPACE MANUFACTURING (78%); METAL FORGING & STAMPING (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); ENGINEERING (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (71%)

COMPANY: BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



157 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 405 words

HEADLINE: On Feeling the Distress of the Unemployed

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''War on the Unemployed,'' by Paul Krugman (column, July 1):
The problem is deeper than cutting unemployment benefits. Government has been cutting jobs, and big business is not creating jobs, as in the past. Many jobs have gone away. And the work force is not meeting today's needs. Besides cutting benefits, we are serving up a job market without hope. 
This legislative session, California (and other states) missed an opportunity to create a Self-Employment Assistance program that would have created an estimated 5,200 new businesses and 15,000 new jobs by allowing the unemployed to keep their benefits while starting their own businesses.
Oregon and New York's S.E.A. programs have given birth to companies and have created jobs. We need a wider systemic strategy to create jobs that includes self-employment. If given institutional support that matches the job market reality, the unemployed can find hope within themselves to create their own jobs.
CLAUDIA VIEK San Francisco, July 1, 2013
The writer is chief executive of the California Association for Micro Enterprise Opportunity.
To the Editor:
Paul Krugman's column summarized the problems of job hunters quite well. Often overlooked is that 50 percent of the employed are dissatisfied enough with their jobs to also submit their résumés, resulting in thousands of applications for advertised jobs.
Employers use sophisticated applicant tracking software to schedule interviews with only a handful of candidates who seem a 100 percent job match. Overqualified candidates are rejected as well, practically eliminating the chance for anyone unemployed to take on a lesser job.
In the past, an applicant could ''simplify'' a résumé to get at least some work to pay the bills. This doesn't seem to work anymore, as recruiters do Web searches that can easily reveal an applicant's advanced education and skills.
DIETMAR TIETZ Laurel, Md., July 1, 2013
The writer is a former president of 40Plus of Greater Washington, a nonprofit group that helps professionals with career transitions.
To the Editor:
My son has been unemployed since last August. His unemployment has just been decreased by New York State to $360 a week. This is New York City. How can one survive on that sum?
Fortunately, he has a working mother to take him in. What if he didn't? He would be on the streets. I feel deeply for all those unemployed who have no one.
JANET GHIRARDI New York, July 1, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX GIBBS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (91%); JOB CREATION (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); WRITERS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (77%); EMPLOYEE ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); EXECUTIVES (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2013



158 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Dividend Payments Are Making a Modest Comeback

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
DIVIDENDS are gaining in popularity among companies, but they are still not close to being as common as they were in the 1980s, before a fascination with technology companies and potential capital gains led many investors to view dividend payers as stodgy and boring.
But while overall dividend payments have continued to rise this year, a growing number of companies are being forced to reduce or eliminate their payouts. 
Standard & Poor's Dow Jones Indices calculated that at midyear, 54 percent of companies with market capitalizations of at least $100 million were making dividend payouts, up from 52 percent at the end of 2012.
As can be seen in the accompanying charts, that is the highest figure for such companies since 1994, when it was also 54 percent. The figure fell as low as 38 percent at the end of 1999, at the height of the technology stock bubble.
''In the late 1990s,'' recalled Howard Silverblatt, the senior index analyst at S.& P. Dow Jones Indices, ''dividends were the kiss of death,'' and few companies wanted to start paying them. Investors were more interested in possible capital gains, and executives preferred share repurchases, which could raise the share price and make their stock options more valuable. ''Then we got the recession'' of 2001, Mr. Silverblatt said. In 2003, Microsoft and Qualcomm began paying dividends, and Congress changed the tax law to reduce taxes on dividends.
Among smaller companies -- defined as having market capitalization of less than $100 million -- the proportion of companies making dividend distributions has always been smaller, but it too is growing. The current figure, 31 percent, is up from 28 percent at the end of last year and is higher than at any time since 1984.
The figures cover all common stocks traded in the leading American markets -- the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and Nasdaq. They exclude depository receipts on foreign stocks, as well as publicly traded partnerships.
The charts also show the annual rate of dividend payments at the end of each year, or, in the current period, at the end of June. All told, large companies are promising annual payouts of $460 billion, while smaller ones are promising $1 billion.
The charts show the annual changes in total dividends paid by each group. Large company payouts rose 18 percent in 2011, and nearly that much in 2012, and the rate has grown another 9 percent so far this year.
The actual increases, however, may not be quite that good. The figures are based on annual dividend payout rates for companies that had market capitalizations of at least $100 million at the date shown. Lately, with the stock market rising, that has caused some companies to move from the smaller group to the larger one. At the end of June, there were 3,875 large companies, 119 more than at the end of 2012, and 2,599 smaller ones, or 94 fewer than at the earlier date.
That shifting membership helps to explain one apparent anomaly in the charts. The figures show a large increase in small company dividends in 2008. That almost certainly is explained by the fact that many companies that had been classified as large ones were moved to the smaller group in 2008, as share prices plunged. As prices recovered in 2009, many of those companies -- and their dividends -- moved back into the larger category.
For many decades, Standard & Poor's has been counting the number of companies that initiated or increased their dividends each year and compared it with the number that reduced or eliminated their payouts. Although there are still far more dividend increases than reductions, the number of the companies cutting back has been rising rapidly since the middle of last year. That is a possible indication that more companies are facing financial strain. Mr. Silverblatt said that most of the companies making cuts had been small ones.
In the first half of this year, 204 dividends were reduced or eliminated. That figure is well below the levels of 2008 and 2009, when the credit crisis was intense, but it is only one fewer than in all of 2002, as companies recovered from the 2001 recession, and is more than in any other full year from 1994 through 2007.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Dividends Return: The proportion of both large and small American companies paying dividends has been rising since the '90s, and the dividend rate for large companies has rebounded to record levels. But over the last 12 months, the number of companies reducing or eliminating their dividends has begun to rise.. (Source: S. & P. Dow Jones Indices) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); TAX LAW (90%); DIVIDENDS (90%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMMON STOCK (79%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (79%); PREFERRED STOCK (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); TAX RELIEF (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); STATISTICS (75%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); STOCK OPTIONS (73%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); QUALCOMM INC (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



159 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1101 words

HEADLINE: China Taps a Growing Phone Market

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

 BODY:
Last year, when China quietly passed the United States as the largest smartphone market, the dynamics of global phone making shifted.
Until then, the global market for smartphones had been defined by the rivalry between Apple and Samsung Electronics. They built expensive phones as must-have products for affluent consumers in wealthy countries.
Now more phones are being designed for consumers in emerging markets, who are expected to account for most of the growth in smartphone sales in the future. That presents an opportunity for the major Chinese phone makers, like Huawei, Lenovo, ZTE, Coolpad, Xiaomi and Oppo.
While Samsung is the biggest smartphone vendor in China, with a market share of 20 percent in the first quarter of 2013, according to the research firm Canalys, several Chinese companies have surged past Apple, which holds 8 percent. 
These include internationally recognized names like Huawei, known for network switching gear, and Lenovo, known for ThinkPad laptops, which moved into the No. 3 and No. 4 positions in the first quarter. But there are nearly 400 other little-known makers in China, where two-thirds of the world's smartphones are made. One of these, Coolpad, leapfrogged from seventh place a year ago to second in the first three months of this year, with a 10 percent share.
''There's a long tail of local competitors that are going to push Apple and Samsung harder and harder,'' said Neil Mawston, an analyst at Strategy Analytics. ''There's a million and one people trying to eat their lunch.''
Chinese phone shoppers are concerned about price because most phones are sold without subsidies from network operators. In the United States and Europe, the wide use of subsidies masks what consumers pay for phones.
The Chinese also switch phones far more often than their counterparts in the West -- generally after about six months, analysts say, compared with every two years or so in developed economies. Fickle customers mean market share shifts swiftly, and the fortunes of companies rise and fall almost as fast.
Apple's and Samsung's position in the high end of the market allows them to collect most of the profit from smartphone sales in China, analysts say. Apple sells 55 percent of the phones priced at $450 or more, with Samsung accounting for 40 percent, according to Sanford C. Bernstein, a brokerage firm. Apple's iPhone 5 costs about $780, while Samsung's Galaxy S4 costs about $850.
But growth in this segment is slowing. Analysts at Bernstein expect sales of smartphones $450 and up worldwide to rise to 296 million units this year, from 235 million in 2012. But the total will flatten out at around 300 million a year, the firm said.
By contrast, sales of phones priced at less than $200 are expected to surge to 400 million units this year, from 234 million last year, with a further jump to 685 million in 2015, the firm says. The low end is growing faster because prices of smartphones have fallen so much that hundreds of millions of Chinese consumers are now able to replace old-fashioned feature phones that lack mobile data capabilities.
''The question for Samsung and Apple is whether they are equipped to compete in the developing markets, especially China, where the growth is going to happen,'' said Pete Cunningham, an analyst at Canalys.
Some of these phones are simply knockoffs of handsets from Samsung or Apple, often housed in cheap plastic shells or offering less memory, lower-resolution screens or inferior cameras. Last year, one Chinese brand, Goophone, introduced a clone of the iPhone 5 for $150, even before Apple released the iPhone 5 in China.
It bears a resemblance to Apple's phone, but the Goophone i5 is different in an important respect -- it runs on a version of Google's Android software.
The challenge for the Chinese makers is to go global. Coolpad began selling its Quattro 4g in the United States through MetroPCS, a mobile network operator. It drew mixed reviews in the United States, but it sold for less than $100 under some promotions.
Huawei, a Chinese company with revenue of 220 billion renminbi ($35.8 billion) last year, has big ambitions for international markets. In June, it introduced a phone called the Ascend P6 in London. The P6 includes many Apple and Samsung-style features, all packed into a thin 6-millimeter case. The Ascend P6 lacks the ability to use the fastest new mobile networks, so-called 4G technology, but it costs much less than an iPhone 5 or a Galaxy S4. In China it costs about $430.
Huawei said it planned to sell the phone in 100 countries, including China and many European markets. But, at least for now, it will not sell it in the United States, where the company has been labeled a security risk by Congress because of allegations -- vehemently denied by the company -- of possible links to the Chinese Army.
Analysts have been predicting that Apple will need to start selling a cheaper phone, though the company has been typically silent about its plans. If Apple wants to maintain its share, it ''will have to move down market,'' said Mark Newman, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein in Hong Kong.
Apple has been negotiating with China Mobile to sell iPhones. If it succeeds in landing the largest wireless carrier in China, the company should easily increase its sales volume.
Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said in April that the company planned to double the number of Apple stores in China -- it has 11 -- over the next two years. ''We still see a significant opportunity in China,'' Mr. Cook told analysts.
Analysts say Samsung is somewhat better positioned than Apple to take advantage of the expected surge in sales of cheaper smartphones because it already sells a broader range of handsets in China, including three priced at less than $450. Galaxy Grand at 2,700 renminbi ($440), Galaxy Style at 1,700 renminbi ($277) and Galaxy Trend, which starts at 900 renminbi ($146).
Samsung declined to discuss its strategy for China, saying only that it planned to introduce ''various products that meet consumer needs in the future.''
What happens in China is also important because success there could help smaller companies develop the strength to move into emerging markets around the globe. While most smartphones are made in China, Chinese handset makers have so far struggled to export phones under their own brand names.
''The fear for Apple and Samsung is that if they don't maintain a strong position in China, other players, mostly Chinese players, will do that instead, and then use that as a springboard to attack them in other markets,'' said Ian Fogg, an analyst at IHS.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from above: the Coolpad 8920
the Huawei Ascend P6, which operates on Google's Android software
the Oppo Find 5, and the ZTE Grand S phone. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LEE JIN-MAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 The Huawei Ascend P6 includes many Apple and Samsung-style features, all in a thin 6-millimeter case. But it costs much less than an iPhone 5 or a Galaxy S4. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EDGAR SU/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (94%); SMARTPHONES (94%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); MARKET SHARE (88%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (76%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (68%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (94%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (90%); SAMSUNG GROUP (57%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (94%); SMSN (LSE) (90%); 005930 (KSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (94%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (94%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



160 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 6, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1686 words

HEADLINE: Class Struggle in the Sky

BYLINE: JAMES ATLAS


HIGHLIGHT: What&#8217;s happening above the clouds mirrors what&#8217;s happening on the ground. 

 BODY:
The choice of "snacks" on some recent flights I've taken include blue potato chips, a cranberry-almond bar, a packet of trail mix and - a selection I haven't been offered before - popcorn. But it makes sense: the cabin already feels like a movie theater at the end of a showing, even though we still have an hour to go. The floor is strewn with candy-bar wrappers and broken headsets, crumpled napkins and cracked plastic glasses. There's so little legroom that I have to push my knees against the seat in front of me as if I'm doing crunches. Welcome to economy. 
 During an intercontinental flight, I notice that "on the other side of the curtain" - as the first-class and business cabins are referred to - dinners are being served on white linen tablecloths, with actual bone china. Everyone's got their "amenities kit" - one of those little nylon bags containing slippers, an eyeshade and a toothbrush. And legroom? Tons. While our seat width contracts - on some airlines by nearly eight inches in recent years - the space up front continues to expand: Emirates Airlines now offers, as part of its "first-class private suite," a private room with minibar, wide-screen TV and "lie-flat bed."
This stark class division should come as no surprise: what's happening in the clouds mirrors what's happening on the ground. Statusization - to coin a useful term - is ubiquitous, no matter what your altitude. While you're in your hospital bed spooning up red Jell-O, a patient in a private suite is enjoying strawberries and cream. On your way to a Chase A.T.M., you notice a silver plaque declaring the existence within of Private Client Services. This man has a box seat at a Yankees game; that man has a skybox. And the skybox isn't the limit: high overhead, the 1 percent fly first class; the .1 percent fly Netjets; the .01 fly their own planes. Why should it be any different up above from down below?
The hardships of economy don't seem to deter us from air travel. There were close to a billion domestic passenger trips last year.
But moving up feels harder than it used to - or it does from where I sit (27F). We're all going everywhere and nowhere at the same time. In his new book, "The Great Degeneration," the historian Niall Ferguson confirms my intuition. His argument is that we've seen a precipitous decline in social mobility over the last 30 years: "Once the United States was famed as a land of opportunity, where a family could leap from 'rags to riches' in a generation." Now it can't even leap from economy to business. You can make some progress in small ways: the gold club members get to board before the silver club members. The passenger who earns a certain number of miles is rewarded with a complimentary drink. But those in the back of the plane can fight all they want over their status. They're still not getting any more legroom.
On a Web site called Flyertalk, I learned from a blogger just how close we are to class warfare in the sky. Disgusted by the grubby conditions on his flight, this Robespierre of the unfriendly skies invokes the French Revolution and warns: If you annoy "the salt of the earth enough, the rank and file and what have you, sometimes you wind up beheaded." Let them eat Pringles.
I try to have a more positive attitude. It's good for my posture to sit up straight, and it makes me feel as if I'm meditating. Besides, I'm lucky I get to go anywhere, never mind where I sit: the day will come, once we've depleted the earth's resources, when the "road warrior" racking up millions of miles will seem as archaic a figure as the door-to-door salesman.
But as the litter piles up beneath my seat, it occurs to me that flying has become like driving - only instead of collapsing bridges and potholed roads, the hazards a traveler in economy faces are crippling back pain and plastic-wrapped ham sandwiches tossed on a tray by hassled flight attendants. It's just another infrastructure in collapse.
AH, the old days ... But it's true: there was a time when air travel - for everyone, regardless of class station - was synonymous with luxury. Bruce Handy captured the way things were in a nostalgic Vanity Fair essay about stewardesses ("stews"): "Their 'look' was as polished as the marble in a corporate lobby," writes Mr. Handy. They wore lipstick and false eyelashes, white gloves and crisply folded hats. And they were young: the mandatory retirement age was 32. Flying in that long-vanished era, when Kennedy was Idlewild and the MetLife Building atop Grand Central was the Pan Am Building, felt special. I remember being presented with plastic wings on my first flight to Nassau, Bahamas, when I was 13. I was like that kid in "Catch Me if You Can" who comes up to Leonardo DiCaprio, looking spiffy in his captain's uniform with gold stripes on the sleeve, and asks for his autograph: "Are you a real live pilot?"
The movie is set in the mid-'60s, the end of a high moment in American life, at least for the middle class. It was a time when public schools could still be counted on to provide a decent education; when it was possible for most families to live on one income - almost always Dad's - buy a house in the suburbs and go on vacation twice a year. (We took the Super Chief from Chicago to California every winter, the porters swaying through the corridors with their dinner gongs as they summoned us to the dining room with the snowy dining cloths and the rose in a fluted vase.) The country was prosperous; if you weren't rich, you felt rich.
Anyway, it didn't matter. There was no caste system. You could get on a plane and be shown your seat in coach without having to mill around at the gate waiting for your "group" to be called. You weren't a "member" of Premier, Business, Gold Circle, Executive Platinum or some other designation that indicated how often you flew and how much you put on your credit card. You were just a passenger, on your way to spend a few days with the grandparents or take the kids to Disneyland.
But as class distinctions become ever more finely calibrated, the competition to move up - or keep from moving down - intensifies. Vance Packard, in his 1959 classic "The Status Seekers," called attention to a phenomenon in the advertising business known as the "upgrading urge." The term was then used to describe the impulse to buy more and more expensive products; today it could be applied - in the literal sense - to the obsessive collection of "miles."
Walter Kirn, in "Up in the Air," his 2001 comic novel about flying, identifies a place called Airworld: "a nation within a nation, with its own architecture, mood, and even its own currency - the token economy of airline bonus miles." In Airworld - and in the real world - frequent-flier miles enable you not only to upgrade but also to get deals on hotels and car rentals. "The more you fly, the sooner you'll achieve Premier Status," boasts United. I knew there was some reason I wanted to see Kansas City before I died.
For the airlines, this kind of statusization is a key marketing component. In May, in an effort to compete with Netjets and private jets, American unveiled a new premier service, an elite category for those who can afford to pay approximately $18,000 for a round-trip ticket to London.
Curious about what they could possibly offer that wasn't available in regular first, I arranged to go out to Kennedy Airport for a tour. A nice American employee introduced me to four other employees, and I set off with my scrum of minders.
We began at the Flagship check-in, a private entrance with a velvet rope - "our entrance for movie stars to avoid the paparazzi," it was explained to me. Luggage is transported to a hidden door by means of a brass hotel baggage cart. While waiting for your ticket to be processed, you can read quotes in silver letters embossed on the wall from Henry Miller, Ian Frazier and Diane Arbus: "My favorite thing is to go where I've never been."
There's a Flagship Lounge - complete with its own chef, marble bathrooms with showers and Eames chairs for napping. And two conference rooms with flat-screen TVs. The eight seats in the plane's premier section are so elaborately equipped that it looks as if it would take half the flight just to figure out how everything works. Let's see, where's the lever for this swivel chair? Where do you plug in the Bose headset?
In its efforts to provide "high-value customers" with a "private, intimate, exclusive" experience, the airline hands out all kinds of cool stuff, from pajamas and a duvet to "branded dermatologic products." The "in-flight wine tasting" offers five vintage labels. And you're always plugged in: behind each seat is a wall of electronic outlets to recharge one's gadgets, in order to ensure "life uninterrupted." (What a nightmare.)
At the end of my tour, I walked down the aisle past business (less gadgetry, but still a lot), past economy plus (more legroom), and to the vast acreage of economy, row upon row of empty seats that, in a few hours, would be filled with squalling babies, muscled guys in Bubba Gump T-shirts, girls in flamingo-pink tank tops, obese armrest hoggers, divorce lawyers jabbering on their cellphones before takeoff, women in spectacles reading "Wolf Hall," Hasids, Pakistanis, Japanese - the melting pot of American coach.
At least we got out of steerage. Or did we? 
 James Atlas is a contributing opinion writer who is at work on a book about biography. 
Details in the opening anecdote of this essay were drawn from separate flights taken by the writer, not a single trip. While the writer did fly economy class from New York to Miami recently (on Delta), he was offered a cranberry-almond bar, not a Luna bar - nor blue potato chips and popcorn (which he was offered on a JetBlue flight to Mexico). In addition, the writer observed flight attendants distributing amenity kits to first- and business-class passengers on an American Airlines trans-Atlantic flight, not the flight to Miami.

        
Rich Tourist, Poor Tourist
        
What if We're Looking at Inequality the Wrong Way?
        
Young and Isolated
        
Our Broken Social Contract
        
Schooling Ourselves in an Unequal America

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (70%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (60%) Airlines and Airplanes; Income Inequality; Luxury Goods; Travel and Vacations; The Great Divide

COMPANY: EMIRATES GROUP (55%); NETJETS INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



161 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: Has 'Caucasian' Lost Its Meaning?

BYLINE: By SHAILA DEWAN. 
An economics reporter for The New York Times.

 BODY:
AS a racial classification, the term Caucasian has many flaws, dating as it does from a time when the study of race was based on skull measurements and travel diaries. It has long been entirely unmoored from its geographical reference point, the Caucasus region. Its equivalents from that era are obsolete -- nobody refers to Asians as ''Mongolian'' or blacks as ''Negroid.''
And yet, there it was in the recent Supreme Court decision on affirmative action. The plaintiff, noted Justice Anthony M. Kennedy in his majority opinion, was Caucasian. 
To me, having covered the South for many years, the term seems like one of those polite euphemisms that hides more than it reveals. There is no legal reason to use it. It rarely appears in federal statutes, and the Census Bureau has never put a checkbox by the word Caucasian. (White is an option.)
The Supreme Court, which can be more colloquial, has used the term in only 64 cases, including a pair from the 1920s that reveal its limitations. In one, the court ruled that a Japanese man could not become a citizen because, although he may have been light-skinned, he was not Caucasian. In the other, an Indian was told that he could not become a citizen because, although he may have been technically Caucasian, he was certainly not white. (A similar debate erupted more recently when the Tsarnaev brothers, believed to be responsible for the Boston Marathon bombing, were revealed to be Muslims from the Caucasus.)
The use of Caucasian to mean white was popularized in the late 18th century by Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, a German anthropologist, who decreed that it encompassed Europeans and the inhabitants of a region reaching from the Obi River in Russia to the Ganges to the Caspian Sea, plus northern Africans. He chose it because the Caucasus was home to ''the most beautiful race of men, I mean the Georgians,'' and because among his collection of 245 human skulls, the Georgian one was his favorite wrote Nell Irvin Painter, a historian who explored the term's origins in her book ''The History of White People.''
In 1889, the editors of the original Oxford English Dictionary noted that the term Caucasian had been ''practically discarded.'' But they spoke too soon. Blumenbach's authority had given the word a pseudoscientific sheen that preserved its appeal. Even now, the word gives discussions of race a weird technocratic gravitas, as when the police insist that you step out of your ''vehicle'' instead of your car.
''If you want to show that you're being dispassionate then you use the more scientific term Caucasian,'' Ms. Painter said.
Susan Glisson, who as the executive director of the William Winter Institute for Racial Reconciliation in Oxford, Miss., regularly witnesses Southerners sorting through their racial vocabulary, said she rarely hears ''Caucasian.'' ''Most of the folks who work in this field know that it's a completely ridiculous term to assign to whites,'' she said. ''I think it's a term of last resort for people who are really uncomfortable talking about race. They use the term that's going to make them be as distant from it as possible.''
There is another reason to use it, said Jennifer L. Hochschild, a professor of government and African-American studies at Harvard. ''The court, or some clever clerk, doesn't really want to use the word white in part because roughly half of Hispanics consider themselves white.'' She added, ''White turns out to be a much more ambiguous term now than we used to think it was.''
There are a number of terms that refer to various degrees of blackness, both current and out of favor: African-American, mulatto, Negro, colored, octaroon. There are not a lot of options for whites. In Texas, they say Anglo. And there is the pejorative we were so pithily reminded of when a witness in the racially charged George Zimmerman trial said the victim, Trayvon Martin, had called Mr. Zimmerman a ''creepy-ass cracker.''
IN the South, I was often asked about my ethnic origins, and I had a ready answer. ''My father is from India,'' I would recite, phrasing it in such a way as to avoid being mistaken for an American Indian. ''And my mom is white.'' Almost invariably, if I was speaking to black people, they would nod with understanding. If I was speaking to white people, I would get a puzzled look. ''What kind of white?'' they would ask. Only when I explained the Norwegian, Scottish and German mix of my ancestry would I get the nod.
I theorized that this was because blacks understood ''white'' as a category, both historical and contemporary -- a coherent group that wielded power and excluded others. Whites, I believed, were less comfortable with that notion.
But Matthew Pratt Guterl, the author of ''The Color of Race in America, 1900-1940,'' had a different take. ''They're trying to trace your genealogy and figure out what your qualities are,'' he said. ''They're looking in your face, they're looking in the slope of your nose, the shape of your brow. There's an effort to discern the truth of the matter, because all whitenesses are not equal.'' In other words, they weren't rejecting the category, they were policing its boundaries.
Such racial boundaries have increasingly been called into question in the debate over affirmative action, once regarded as a form of restitution to descendants of slaves, but now complicated by all sorts of questions about who, exactly, is being helped. ''What if some of them aren't poor, what if some of them don't have American parentage, what if some of them are really stupid?'' Ms. Painter, the historian, asked. ''There's all kinds of characteristics that we stuff into race without looking, and then they pop out and we think, 'I can't deal with that.' ''
Doubtless, this society will continue to classify people by race for some time to come. And as we lumber toward justice, some of those classifications remain useful, even separate from other factors like economic class. Caucasian, though? Not so much.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WHITE
FAIR WHITE
PALE WHITE
LIGHT WHITE
CHALK WHITE
ASHEN WHITE
PORCELAIN WHITE
 IVORY WHITE (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAY318) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS (89%); HISTORY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (76%); MARATHONS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); CITIZENSHIP (69%); 2013 BOSTON MARATHON BOMBING (64%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (56%); CENSUS (55%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: ANTHONY KENNEDY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); CASPIAN SEA (53%) CAUCASIAN STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GEORGIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (68%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



162 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: A New Anti-American Axis?

BYLINE: By LESLIE H. GELB and DIMITRI K. SIMES. 
Leslie H. Gelb, a former columnist, editor and correspondent for The New York Times, is president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations. Dimitri K. Simes is president of the Center for the National Interest and publisher of its magazine, The National Interest.

 BODY:
THE flight of the leaker Edward J. Snowden from Hong Kong to Moscow last month would not have been possible without the cooperation of Russia and China. The two countries' behavior in the Snowden affair demonstrates their growing assertiveness and their willingness to take action at America's expense.
Beyond their protection of Mr. Snowden, Chinese-Russian policies toward Syria have paralyzed the United Nations Security Council for two years, preventing joint international action. Chinese hacking of American companies and Russia's cyberattacks against its neighbors have also caused concern in Washington. While Moscow and Beijing have generally supported international efforts to end Iran's nuclear weapons program, they clearly were not prepared to go as far as Washington was, and any coordinated shift in their approach could instantly gut America's policy on the issue and endanger its security and energy interests. To punctuate the new potential for cooperation, China is now carrying out its largest ever joint naval exercises -- with Russia. 
Russia and China appear to have decided that, to better advance their own interests, they need to knock Washington down a peg or two. Neither probably wants to kick off a new cold war, let alone hot conflicts, and their actions in the case of Mr. Snowden show it. China allowed him into Hong Kong, but gently nudged his departure, while Russia, after some provocative rhetoric, seems to have now softened its tone.
Still, both countries are seeking greater diplomatic clout that they apparently reckon they can acquire only by constraining the United States. And in world affairs, there's no better way to flex one's muscles than to visibly diminish the strongest power.
This new approach appears based in part on a sense of their growing strength relative to America and their increasing emphasis on differences over issues like Syria. Both Moscow and Beijing oppose the principle of international action to interfere in a country's sovereign affairs, much less overthrow a government, as happened in Libya in 2011. After all, that principle could always backfire on them.
They also don't like watching the West take action against leaders friendly to them, like President Bashar al-Assad of Syria. As this sense of common interests becomes entrenched, increasing Russian-Chinese cooperation could pose grave risks for America and the world.
Their conduct suggests that they see less cost in challenging the United States and fewer rewards for acting as a partner. These calculations stem from two dangerous perceptions.
First, they see American decline and decadence. In their view, the United States is on the wrong side of history, holding on to ties with Europe and parts of Asia, while losing economic leverage and moral authority in the rest of the world. American disengagement from Iraq and Afghanistan without victory contributes to a related impression that America's unquestioned military superiority isn't worth much in terms of achieving policy objectives on the ground.
Second, many Russian and Chinese elites consider American foreign policy objectives fundamentally hostile to their vital interests. Neither group views American democracy promotion as reflecting any genuine commitment to freedom; instead, both perceive it as a selective crusade to undermine governments that are hostile to the United States or too powerful for its comfort.
Meanwhile, Russian and Chinese leaders make clear that Washington's support for their neighbors in practically every dispute involving Beijing or Moscow is less a matter of respect for international law than a form of dual containment that seeks to curtail the regional and global influence of these two major powers.
American backing for Georgia and the former Soviet republics of Central Asia bothers Russia. Likewise, China views American support for Vietnam and the Philippines in their maritime disputes with Beijing as a menace.
No wonder Xi Jinping of China made his first international trip as China's president to Moscow, where he told his counterpart, Vladimir V. Putin, that Beijing and Moscow should ''resolutely support each other in efforts to protect national sovereignty, security and development interests'' and promised to ''closely coordinate'' on regional and international issues. Mr. Putin reciprocated by saying that ''the strategic partnership between us is of great importance on both a bilateral and global scale.'' While the two leaders' words may have generated more of an impression of collusion than was necessary, it's safe to assume they knew exactly the message they were sending.
POLICY makers in Washington must carefully assess the growing chumminess between China and Russia and what it means for America. To ignore it would be foolish.
Yes, China and Russia continue to be divided by a history of mutual distrust as well as by conflicting economic interests and Chinese territorial ambitions. China's concerns about North Korea exceed Russia's, and Moscow's stake in Syria is greater than Beijing's. And in Central Asia, the two nations are outright competitors. Moreover, China is a rising superpower and Russia is fighting to stay in the big leagues, which gives them different perspectives on world affairs.
That said, both countries share a strong interest in maintaining partnerships with the United States and the European Union, their main trading partners and the custodians of the international financial system, in which each has a major stake. These are powerful reasons for staying on good working terms with Washington, but the United States should not assume that they will halt the new anti-American tack in Beijing and Moscow. That would be a dangerous misreading of history.
Before World War I, many assumed that mutual economic entanglement and the huge costs of war would prevent conflict among key European powers. On the eve of World War II, Communist Russia and Nazi Germany seemed the unlikeliest of allies, until the two-year-long nonaggression treaty known as the Molotov-Ribbentrop pact left Europe in ruins and many millions dead.
President Obama should see China and Russia as neither enemies nor friends, but as significant powers with their own interests, as the Snowden affair showed. Initially, Mr. Obama railed publicly and ineffectually at both, urging them to extradite Mr. Snowden. Only when he softened his public stance and hardened his private line did Beijing and Moscow begin to see the advantages of avoiding further confrontation.
Washington needs to understand that most security threats around the world -- from Syria to Iran to North Korea -- can't be managed safely and successfully without Russia's and China's cooperation. With respect to Syria, this approach would mean appreciating Moscow's historical connection to the country's Alawite leaders as well as Russia's concern over the fate of Syria's Christians, especially Orthodox Christians. In dealing with Beijing, it would mean strongly protecting American trade interests while understanding that Chinese leaders face real obstacles in tackling their own domestic economic problems.
To gain the respect of Russia and China, the White House must first demonstrate that American leadership is essential to solving key world problems, including those vital to China and Russia. America can't be seen as passive.
Relations with Russia and China deserve to be given priority, but the United States mustn't be afraid to stand firm in some cases or, in others, to partner with these two authoritarian but ultimately pragmatic powers. To do otherwise would be a folly of historic proportions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: On his first foreign trip as president of China, Xi Jinping was welcomed to Russia by President Vladimir V. Putin in March. (POOL PHOTO BY SERGEI ILNITSKY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%); CYBERCRIME (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (57%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (92%); XI JINPING (79%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (57%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); CHINA (95%); SYRIA (94%); HONG KONG (93%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



163 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; HANDLEBARS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: Is This BMW the Ultimate Maxiscooter?

BYLINE: By STUART F. BROWN

 BODY:
Of all the head-of-the-class vehicles one might expect from the wizards at BMW's research and development works, a high-performance scooter would probably be well down the list. If it made the list at all.
Since its founding 90 years ago, BMW's motorcycle division has been best known for building long-distance machines of renowned durability; more recently, it dabbled in cruisers and introduced a line of track-ready supersport bikes of nearly 200 horsepower. 
But someone in Munich apparently saw a market for a big scooter -- at 550 pounds and up, the term maxiscooter is apt -- in Europe, where hordes of riders navigate the serpentine streets of cities laid out in the Middle Ages. The result is a pair of linebacker-scale machines that depart sharply from their forebears: the agile C 600 Sport and its touring-oriented sibling, the C 650 GT.
Though BMW's maxiscooters have been on sale in Germany for a year, they are only now available in the United States, so relatively few motorcyclists know how deftly engineered and fun to ride they are.
The scooters are powered by 650 cc liquid-cooled 2-cylinder engines that produce a stout 60 horsepower. While most scooters use much smaller engines and gather speed rather casually, the BMWs deliver brisk acceleration and a top speed of 109 m.p.h., the maker says.
Not your buzzy little conveyance for delivering take-out food, in other words.
Heaping such praise on a scooter might not come easy for riders accustomed to full-scale motorcycles that place the gas tank between the knees and roll on wheels that are typically 17 inches in diameter.
With 15-inch wheels, the C 600 that I tested split the difference between conventional motorcycles and the small city scooters whose wheels are as small as 10 inches across. The C 600 also has fat tires that make it stable at Interstate cruising speeds and gave it sufficient grip for spirited cornering.
Wheel size matters when it comes to negotiating the potholes that will inevitably appear before you have time to take evasive action. The bigger a wheel is, the better its chance of coming out the far side of a big pothole; small ones can snag and send the rider flying.
During a 350-mile trip on New England roads, some of them pocked with frost heaves, the BMW showed it could deal with the awful patches, aided considerably by its well-damped suspension. There's plenty of ground clearance on both sides, so the hefty machine can be tossed into turns in a surprisingly sporty fashion.
Climbing aboard, a rider steps through the scooter's frame -- rather than over it, as on a motorcycle -- an action that's easier for someone with an aging boomer's stiff joints, for example.
In addition to smaller wheel size and a step-through frame, the third defining attribute of a scooter is an automatic transmission. The continuously variable transmissions used in scooters have been evolving for decades, and the BMWs' work seamlessly. The only scooter-specific technique required is grabbing a handful of throttle when pulling away from a dead stop, particularly when turning from a driveway or stoplight; the C.V.T. takes a moment to adjust itself and benefits from a surge of power when getting under way.
Not that many scooterists will try this, but the C 600's powertrain accelerates smoothly and decently even with a 250-pound passenger on the back. Powerful antilock brakes provide sure stops.
When the sidestand is extended for parking, a brake automatically engages, a feature that will be appreciated by anyone who has witnessed a parked bike slowly roll away and fall over.
Storage for all your gear is another maxiscooter attraction. Under the C 600's seat there is more than enough room for a full-face helmet, and a clever downward-extending pouch above the rear wheel accepts a second helmet when the scooter is parked. The long footboards have both horizontal and forward-angled sections that offer varied positions for your feet.
Filled with fuel, the C 600 weighs 549 pounds, more than a number of motorcycles. Thus its fuel efficiency isn't in the ultrahigh range small scooters can attain. During my test, fuel economy worked out to 42 m.p.g. You've got to pay to play.
Having invested in creating maxiscooters for Europe, BMW would like to find some American takers for these hot rods with nonthreatening looks. The company's marketing team is counting on some BMW car enthusiasts to be lured out of their four-wheelers.
The BMWs go up against competitors like the Suzuki Burgman 650, Honda Silver Wing and to a lesser extent the Piaggio MP3 500 and Yamaha Majesty, which have occupied a small niche in the market for a decade. Price probably won't be the deciding factor: the C 600's $10,085 price tag is within a few dollars of the Honda and about $1,000 less than the Suzuki.
My C 600 Sport test bike was equipped with the Highline package, a $605 option that included the heated seat and grips -- features that made a huge difference in comfort and morale during a two-hour ride on a 50-degree day -- and a tire pressure monitoring system.
Having great road manners and the hottest engine in its class could make the C 600 a star among maxiscooters. But don't discount the power of a BMW logo to draw new customers to a mode of transportation that grows in popularity each time the price of gasoline lurches upward.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BRAND CONSCIOUS: Sixty horsepower makes the C 600 Sport the BMW of scooters. (AU1)
 VARIATIONS: BMW's maxiscooter is available as the C 650 GT touring specialist, left, and the spirited C 600 Sport. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BMW OF NORTH AMERICA) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCYCLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (76%); ATHLETES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (72%); EUROPE (71%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



164 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 235 words

HEADLINE: An Executive Pay Parade

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''That Unstoppable Climb in C.E.O. Pay'' (June 30), which examined the compensation packages of public-company chief executives last year: 
The 200 executives on your list were paid a total of about $3.5 billion in compensation in 2012 (I added it up.) If they made reasonable salaries of say, $200,000 each -- more than enough to live on -- the excess could put 100,000 young people into their first jobs. So 100,000 people have to go without work so these folks can get Armani suits, Rolex watches, golf club memberships and private jets.
And these numbers do not even include the compensation of top private-company executives, or of corporate directors or the leaders of top law firms and investment firms -- not to mention star professional athletes, actors/directors, quasi-government agency heads, union leaders, fund-raisers, lobbyists and others. Stop all the excesses and get the economy back on track.
CATHERINE WILSON
Thornwood, N.Y., June 30
To the Editor:
The surge in chief executives' pay is occurring while average taxpayers are losing their jobs, benefits and homes. And, for some C.E.O.'s, the pay keeps rolling in even though the companies' economic profits are negative and their stock prices have fallen.
It is time for tough caps to be set on the deductibility of C.E.O. compensation, with no loopholes, no exceptions. Pass the law and enforce it.
SUSAN NIAL
Charleston, S.C., June 30

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); EXECUTIVES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (74%); SPORTS (74%); LOBBYING (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); DISMISSALS (72%); LAWYERS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); GOLF (69%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLESTON, SC, USA (68%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



165 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: When the Weak Outperform the Strong

BYLINE: By NORM ALSTER

 BODY:
MANU DAFTARY, manager of the Quaker Strategic Growth fund, says he learned a valuable lesson in 2009. He avoided companies like the American International Group, Bank of America and Citgroup, which, to one degree or another, were damaged by the subprime mortgage crisis and benefited from the help of the Federal Reserve. His portfolio's performance suffered, though, as he minimized investments in such companies.
''I kicked myself every day,'' he says.
Mr. Daftary made a vow: Never again would he ignore the Fed and the companies that seem to profit most from its market interventions. 
That lesson appears to have served him well this year. His portfolio, laced with what were relatively out-of-favor companies, has thrived in a period of rock-bottom interest rates -- climbing nearly 16 percent through June.
More broadly, the market has richly rewarded investors in many companies with weak balance sheets -- those that have relatively high debt loads. The Fed's policy of low interest rates has enabled such companies to refinance their debt more cheaply, often driving up their share prices.
Goldman Sachs has found that stocks with weak balance sheets performed far better than those with strong balance sheets in the first half this year. Goldman tracks a marketbasket of 50 strong-balance-sheet stocks. It was up just 9 percent through June, far behind the 24.4 percent gain for a portfolio with the same number of weak-balance-sheet shares.
Mr. Daftary owns a number of the stocks in the weak-balance-sheet basket. These include Anadarko Petroleum, Time Warner and CBS, all strong performers this year.
The Goldman market basket doesn't include financial stocks. But the Quaker fund's portfolio does: It holds A.I.G., a company that has ''absolutely'' benefited from Fed purchases of mortgage-backed securities, Mr. Daftary said.
Don Hodges, who with his son Craig manages the Hodges Fund, also emphasizes out-of-favor stocks. ''The interest-rate environment is definitely a positive,'' he said. Across all industries, he added, ''companies are paying down debt.''
This is especially helpful to many companies whose share prices plunged as a result of the financial crisis. ''When everything gets trashed, stocks at the bottom of the pit get doubly trashed,'' Mr. Hodges said. He has done well with A. H. Belo, the newspaper chain, and Luby's, the restaurant company.
Investors have recently fretted over the prospect of cutbacks later this year in the Fed's bond-buying program. Still, officials at the Fed have emphasized that its policy of near-zero short-term interest rates will not end soon.
Low rates and strong investor demand for yield, meanwhile, have set a picnic table for some companies looking to raise cash and refinance debt at lower cost. Last year, there were 192 offerings of BB debt -- at the top end of speculative-grade ratings -- that raised $107.2 billion, according to Standard & Poor's. That was up from 126 companies and $68.5 billion in 2011. This year, the pace of BB borrowing has accelerated further.
About half of the total $652 billion in speculative-grade bond and leveraged loan issuance in 2011 and 2012 has gone toward refinancing debt, typically at lower rates, according to S.& P.
Apart from the benefits of Fed policies, stocks of companies with relatively weak financials have outperformed for another reason: many had become very cheap.
In the aftermath of the financial crisis, stocks perceived as high risk were shunned, said Bill Miller, who manages the Legg Mason Opportunity Trust. ''Anything which had high perceived risk would tend to be radically mispriced,'' Mr. Miller said. The Legg Mason fund owns housing stocks like KB Home and Pulte, along with the mortgage insurers MGIC Investment and Genworth Financial, which declined sharply during the crisis. All have thrived lately.
Fed policies like quantitative easing -- direct purchases of bonds and other securities -- have helped stock prices even as earnings growth has slowed, noted Richard Bernstein, chief executive of Richard Bernstein Advisors. The positive effects of quantitative easing ''and the accompanying lower interest rates have been more powerful than has been the slowdown in earnings growth,'' he wrote in early June.
Here's one example of how Fed policies have helped a company: MGIC, the mortgage insurer, suffered years of financial loses after the housing bubble burst. Share prices bottomed last August at less than $1 a share. But with Fed policies easing credit access while helping to lift both housing and equity markets, MGIC was able to raise more than $1 billion in March in convertible and secondary stock offerings
Among the funds with the largest holdings in Goldman's weak-balance-sheet basket is DFA Tax-Managed U.S. Marketwide Value. Jed Fogdall is a manager of the fund, which has sizable holdings in Anadarko, Kraft Foods, Thermo Fisher Scientific and Time Warner, all big winners in the first half this year.
The fund isn't necessarily looking for weak-balance-sheet stocks -- just cheap ones. It focuses on the 20 percent of Russell 1000 Value stocks that have the highest ratios of book-to-market value. ''We hold these stocks because they have a higher expected rate of return,'' Mr. Fogdall explained.
If the Fed ends its stimulative monetary policy, stocks with weaker balance sheets could be hit hard, of course. While this is a risk, Mr. Hodges doesn't foresee an early end to the Fed's low-interest-rate policies.
SOME fund managers, however, are not convinced that weak-balance-sheet stocks will continue to outperform.
Jeff Constantino, manager of the MFS Massachusetts Investors Growth Stock fund, acknowledged the advantages that leveraged companies have had under Fed policies. ''They can roll over debt if they need to,'' he said. ''And they can refinance at lower rates.''
But he says he thinks their run may be nearing an end. ''It's possible that a lot of the outperformance of highly leveraged companies is behind us,'' he said. He's especially cautious about leveraged companies that also have cyclical characteristics.
He cited the example of industrial supply companies, also known as industrial distributors. ''In the financial crisis, a lot of smaller industrial distributors weren't able to invest in inventory,'' he said. ''The financing was so tight and they didn't have the free cash flow.'' That provided an opportunity for a better-heeled company, W. W. Grainger, which the MFS portfolio holds. ''Grainger invested aggressively during the downturn,'' he said. ''They took substantial market share.''
Mr. Constantino isn't fighting the Fed. But he says he is trying to stick with quality. ''Even if we remain in a low-growth world with low interest rates, I still prefer to invest in high-quality companies with pricing power and significant cash flow that can be allocated to create value,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Pulte housing development in Phoenix, top. Pulte and other homebuilder stocks have thrived after falling sharply in the financial crisis. Kraft Foods has been among other big winners this year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES
 )JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BONDS (76%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); ANADARKO PETROLEUM CORP (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); APC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (54%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (54%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (54%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (54%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



166 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: Gentrifying Into the Shelters

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
This past week, The New York Post reported on the sale of a two-bedroom loft in Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn to a couple in exodus from what they regarded as the oppressive trendiness of the Lower East Side. The loft, just under 1,600 square feet, sold for what the paper said was a record-setting $1 million, the highest price, apparently ever, for the sale of an apartment in a neighborhood that two decades ago could claim one of the highest murder rates in the city.
Several months earlier, the brisk sale of properties in the area had reached another high point, when an 1885 Queen Anne townhouse designed by the active turn-of-the-century Brooklyn architects the Parfitt Brothers sold for more than $2 million, making it the most expensive residential real-estate sale in Bedford-Stuyvesant's history, according to the Web site Brownstoner. Chic bars and restaurants proliferate now, leaving Bedford-Stuyvesant as much a refuge from trendiness as the South is a refuge from college football. 
Those unburdened by skepticism about gentrification argue that it is an ample elevator, lifting up everyone: with renovations come the need for those to lay the subway tiles; with enotecas come the need for those to serve the verdicchio. And yet how often does the waitress pouring the wine in a marginal neighborhood look like someone rescued from grim financial despair rather than a slightly younger, and often more fashionable, version of the person drinking it? What has happened in Bedford-Stuyvesant does not easily comply with an optimistic view of transformation. Since 2005, according to the Department of Homeless Services, it has ranked among the city's top five communities sending families into the shelter system, representing approximately 5 percent of all family shelter entrants.
What causes some poor families to fall into homelessness and others to sustain themselves, however precariously, is a difficult question that has challenged social scientists and policy makers for a long time. The vexing inquiry -- the inevitable multivariate answers -- have made targeted prevention a relatively new endeavor, despite how logical a solution it might seem. It was not until 2004 that the city initiated a program called Homebase, which went into neighborhoods like Bedford-Stuyvesant that send the greatest number of people into homelessness, with the goal of reducing it. Homebase has sought to keep at-risk families out of the shelter system and in their communities with emergency rental assistance, landlord mediation and links to social services.
This is a good idea -- with a federal funding stream, at a time when federal money for subsidized housing has been drastically curtailed -- but it has had only negligible success. Recently, the city released the results of a study it had conducted, which looked at the outcomes for a sample of 295 families, 150 of them in receipt of Homebase services and a control group of 145 that was not. Between 2010 and 2012, the families receiving services spent about 22.6 fewer nights in shelters on average than those that were not part of Homebase. Though this is a statistically significant result, it is hardly an impressive one, especially in light of the fact that the average stay for a family in the shelter system is now 13 months, up from 9 months in 2011, and the city is experiencing record levels of homelessness with 50,000 people, including 21,000 children, in shelters every night.
Is the current understanding of prevention too narrow? Do neighborhoods need to be stabilized long before so many families find themselves so close to the precipice? Reason would seem to say yes. The city's self-analysis, conducted by various academics, places little credence in the impact of the housing market on homelessness. But a report released last month by the Institute for Children, Poverty and Homelessness, a research and policy group, presents a convincing set of facts to defend the notion of causality.
Examining demographic data from Bedford-Stuyvesant and neighboring Brownsville, the study illustrates how those living in poverty might lose their ability to exist on limited resources when the fortunes of a neighborhood dramatically change. Between 2005 and 2010, the median rent, adjusted for inflation, swelled in Bedford-Stuyvesant and Brownsville by more than 22 percent, while the median household income of renters over that same period did not remotely keep pace. (In Bedford-Stuyvesant, the figure rose only 4.7 percent and in Brownsville, income decreased.)
What happens in a scenario like this one is that the poor are not simply competing with wealthier newcomers for limited housing; the poor are competing with one another. Given the west to east progression of gentrification in northern Brooklyn, the study concluded some faction of low-income residents priced out of Bedford-Stuyvesant have presumably moved to Brownsville, an even more depressed neighborhood, thus creating intense competition in a housing market for those least able to engage in it. Brownsville continues to rank among the communities sending the greatest number of families into the shelter system; public housing, despite its high concentration in the neighborhood, only serves a minority of residents.
The Democratic candidates running for mayor all understand that the city needs more affordable housing, and some have proposed innovative ways of paying for it. Nearly everyone agrees that the city needs to create more economic opportunity for those who have the least access to it. But there has been less conversation about how important economic diversity is to the health of neighborhoods. It is not simply that the rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer, as the aphorism goes. The poor are poorer in isolation -- and islands can be scary places.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Stephanie Vazquez, right, and her daughters, with Katherine Montanez, a Homebase caseworker. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (86%); HOMELESSNESS (86%); HISTORY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); CRIME RATES (73%); RESTAURANTS (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (72%); POOR POPULATION (69%); DRINKING PLACES (67%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (55%); WEB SITES (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



167 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: Through a Sales Rep's Eyes

BYLINE: By DEIRDRE P. CONNELLY. 
As told to Elizabeth Olson.

 BODY:
I WAS born and raised in San Juan, one of nine children of an Irish-American father and a Puerto Rican mother. They met at the chapel of Bellevue Hospital in New York when they were taking care of relatives who were patients there.
My parents later moved to San Juan, where my father started an insurance company. My mother was a nurse but later left the field to help my father at his company. Four siblings were born in New York, and I was the first of the five brothers and sisters born in Puerto Rico. 
Some of my siblings became nurses and physicians, but I was intrigued by business. I loved tagging along with my father when he visited clients, and learned lessons about leadership and values from him that I use every day.
When it came time to go to college, my father suggested Lycoming College, in Williamsport, Pa., which was not far from two other colleges where my sisters were studying. I started in the accounting program, but after a few classes I switched my major to economics and marketing.
It was a small college, which was good for me because I had more interaction with professors. While I spoke English, I still had a lot to learn before I became proficient.
I graduated in 1983 and returned to San Juan to help my father, who had received a diagnosis of lupus. A year later, he was able to return to his insurance business, and I became a sales representative for Eli Lilly, the pharmaceutical company, in San Juan.
As part of Lilly's management development program, I spent a year learning about marketing at its Indianapolis headquarters. In 1988, I became sales manager for Puerto Rico, and, in 1997, general manager for the Caribbean region. I became head of the women's health business unit at Lilly's United States affiliate in 2000.
My next position was head of the company's human resources. Then, in 2005, I was named its United States president, and oversaw a reconfiguration of its sales force.
Four years later, GlaxoSmithKline, which is based in England, approached me about becoming president of its North America operations. At first, I was not sure. Then I read an article about its new chief executive, Andrew Witty, and agreed to meet him for coffee. I was convinced that we could move ahead together to transform the way GlaxoSmithKline operated its $11 billion United States pharmaceuticals business.
I moved to Philadelphia to join the company. I am still very close to my siblings, and have 14 nieces and nephews, from ages 10 to 35.
Our company is facing a changing health care market that demands higher-quality care, lower costs and better outcomes. As part of rethinking and redesigning our commercial model in the United States, we have revamped our procedures for training, evaluating and compensating our 5,000 sales people.
This was under way when, last year, the company paid $3 billion in fines to the federal government because it had earlier promoted some antidepressants for unapproved uses and failed to report the status of studies about our diabetes drug. We are committed to ensuring that this never happens again.
To stay plugged in and know better what the sales job now entails, I sometimes join our sales representatives when they call on customers, who are often physicians. I keep a low profile, and don't announce my position, and I find that these visits help me see that this is a very different job, requiring more knowledge of medicine and of business operations, than the one I had in the mid-1980s.
My job is to make sure the company adheres to its values, and that means the patient always comes first.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DEIRDRE P. CONNELLY: President, North America Pharmaceuticals, at GlaxoSmithKline AGE 52 LOVES TO Play classical guitar RELAXES BY Reading and walking (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLAXOSMITHKLINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); SALES FORCE (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SALES & SELLING (88%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (86%); HEALTH CARE (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); LUPUS (72%); SALES MANAGEMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (67%); HUMAN RESOURCES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (50%)

COMPANY: ELI LILLY & CO (82%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (52%)

TICKER: LLY (SWX) (82%); LLY (NYSE) (82%); GSK (NYSE) (52%); GSK (LSE) (52%); BIOC (EGX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (73%); ENGLAND (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



168 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 190 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''Come on already.''
Bart Chilton, a Democratic member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. He agrees with Commissioner Gary Gensler that the agency can no longer delay rules that would rein in lucrative trading by banks overseas. Wall Street lobbyists want to extend a July 12 deadline. 
''We're tiptoeing into a potentially very deep and interesting new way of communicating.''
Mitchell Stephens, author of ''The Rise of the Image, the Fall of the Word,'' and a journalism professor at New York University, talking about apps like Instagram and Snapchat that allow dialogue through photography.
''In general, Michigan is not perceived as the hippest place for young technology geeks.''
Donald R. Grimes, an economic researcher at the University of Michigan. The Detroit car companies are having trouble attracting software developers and information technology experts from places like Silicon Valley.
''There is no question that the housing market in Canada is overshooting.''
Benjamin Tal, deputy chief economist of CIBC World Markets. A boom in places like downtown Toronto has some worried that a United States-style crash will result.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); WRITERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (78%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (78%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



169 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: A Hidden Consensus on Health Care

BYLINE: By ROSS DOUTHAT

 BODY:
TO follow what's happening with the new health care law right now, you have to understand that for all the deep divisions on the issue, there's actually a real bipartisan consensus about how the American health care system ought to be reformed.
Or rather, there are two of them -- a dishonest consensus among politicians and an honest consensus among people who study public policy for a living. 
The politicians' consensus is that health care reform shouldn't alter or disrupt the way the majority of Americans get their insurance today. This is President Obama's official position on the issue: again and again throughout the fraught 2009 debate, he reassured voters that if they liked their existing health care plan, his bill wouldn't prevent them from keeping it. It's also the official position of his Republican critics, who have consistently attacked Obamacare for undercutting that presidential promise -- for slashing Medicare, for driving up premiums and for threatening the employer-provided insurance status quo.
The policy consensus, though, is that the status quo is actually the problem, and that it deserves to be threatened, undermined and replaced as expeditiously as possible. Wonks of the left and right disagree on what that replacement should look like. But they're united in regarding employer-provided coverage as an unsustainable relic: a burden on businesses, a source of perverse incentives for the health care market and an obstacle to more efficient, affordable and universal coverage.
Yet woe betide the politician who dares to publicly agree. That's what John McCain discovered in 2008, when he proposed a sweeping reform that would have eliminated the tax incentives that undergird employer-provided coverage. Conservative policy types loved the idea (as well they should, being responsible for it), but it cost McCain dearly: the Obama campaign used it to attack him, relentlessly and effectively, as an enemy of the way most middle-class people get health insurance, and thus of the middle class itself.
These attacks, in turn, constrained the Obama White House when it came time to design its own health care reform. Obamacare has an unwieldy, Frankenstein's monster quality in part because the law is trying to serve both consensuses at once. The core of the bill, the subsidies for the uninsured and the exchanges where they can purchase plans, is designed to offer a center-left alternative to the existing system. But much of the surrounding architecture is designed to prop up existing arrangements -- and in the process, protect Obama from exactly the kind of criticisms he once leveled against McCain.
Or at least, it was designed that way. But then came last week's announcement that the White House would be delaying, for a year, the new health care law's employer mandate, which requires businesses with more than 50 employees to offer health coverage or face a fine.
Republicans reacted by hyping the announcement as a sign that the entire law is unraveling, Democrats by minimizing the significance of the move. But the more telling reaction came from the policy world, where conservatives and liberals took a break from their usual disagreements to agree that the White House and Congress should probably just scrap the employer mandate altogether.
That's because the mandate is mostly just a political device designed to hide the full cost of the bill and discourage employers from eliminating employee coverage too quickly once Obamacare's new exchanges are up and running.
Like many politically minded regulations, it risked perverse economic consequences -- delayed hiring, reduced work hours -- which explains why the White House decided to punt it to 2015. But the mandate's outright abandonment is more desirable, because that would have a clarifying effect on the entire health care debate.
Right now, both parties are still pretending that H.R. departments will go on doubling as welfare states forever. If it dropped the employer mandate, the Obama White House would be fully committed to a more disruptive future, in which exchanges and subsidies gradually replaced the employer-based system. And since those exchanges and subsidies are going to be implemented by this administration no matter what -- barring a Martian invasion or a zombie apocalypse, at least -- the sooner we find out if they really work and what they really cost the better.
As Avik Roy, one of the mandate's conservative critics, wrote last week in Forbes, ''if you like Obamacare, and you want it to work, you don't need the employer mandate.'' And if you don't like Obamacare (as Roy doesn't), and don't expect it to work, then all the mandate does is delay a necessary reckoning with the new system's flaws.
Either way, the White House's decision is a step toward honesty in policy-making. It takes us a little closer to a world where politicians of both parties actually level with the public, and acknowledge that employer-provided health insurance is an idea whose time has passed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); TAX LAW (73%); MEDICARE (67%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



170 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: The Song of the Suburbs

BYLINE: By RICHARD FORD. 
The author, most recently, of the novel ''Canada.''

 BODY:
WHEN I was a boy growing up in Mississippi, my father liked to ''drive around looking at houses.'' That was his expression. We lived in the very center of Jackson, a block from the Capitol building; it was the '50s, I was 6 and on. I don't know what my father felt about owning the small red-brick duplex in the older part of town -- if he liked it much or didn't. It is the inner city now, but it was our home then, a place he'd bought so I could be born in it. It was what he could afford.
I only know that he was in love with the suburbs, the rapidly replicating ripple-rings of new housing, filling up the vacant farms and woodlots and horse pastures beyond Jackson's limits, the reverberance of the postwar economic boom and of the white race-anxiety that changed the character of old urban life in Mississippi forever, and created the New South. 
Both my parents had been raised in rural places -- west Arkansas (not South, exactly) -- both of them born in the first decade of the century. Cities, to them, were Little Rock, Fort Smith, Oklahoma City: raffish, expanding towns, more than complex, grinding cities. What thoughts they had about ''urban life'' -- about big-city anomie, changing demographics -- I don't know either. They wouldn't have had any thoughts about it, is my guess.
Most likely the appeal of the suburbs, in their minds, had to do with ''the new.'' They'd grown up in old, equivocal housing, far down rucked dirt roads. Isolated. In my mother's case that had meant no electric, plumbing situated out-of-doors, water drawn from a well. The new had appeal. It was the opposite of most everything they'd known.
In particular, new meant the state of whatever domiciliary arts were then to be found in suburban Mississippi: solid-seeming builder-designed ''homes''; winding, blackly-paved, curb-less streets. Front yards cows didn't stand in. Carports, driveways, good drainage, circuit breakers. New sounds in the air -- a modern sense of comfort and security achieved at the modest cost of uniformity.
To my father, a large, handsome, wide-eyed, sweetly unassuming man, ''driving around looking at houses'' -- again, an activity he loved -- meant long, sunny Sunday afternoons spent in the family car, a brown, ball-cap '47 Mercury. My mother in the front beside him, me in the back alone, he enjoyed motoring out after church, north toward where the new development took up. He must've wanted to stay apprised of what was happening there. Jackson's limits were widening, houses sprouting, woods retreating, hayfields, plow ground, small holdings succumbing week by week, being translated into ''lots'' and ''tracts,'' buildings-to-be lined out with pine stakes, footings poured, septics sunk, studs printing up yellow in the warm piney air.
We saw it all through our car window. Only curious, my father didn't seem to feel the need for closer inspection. He just passed along, staring out, smoking, looking -- my mother and me his confederates. They spoke, I'm sure. Voiced their appraisals. ''That's a nice place.'' ''Yes.'' ''He's building those all alike, isn't he?'' ''That sits too far toward the creek.'' ''I don't like a carport. I like a garage.'' ''I don't like brick.'' Afterward we drove home.
I was never consulted, nor did I inquire. I was just their little boy. Even so, it was my presumption (unstated) that people did things with certain other things in mind. Outcomes. Buying a house could have been such an outcome. Why else look? And look and look. Yet, houses drifted by us the way small towns float past a slow train-car window, and with comparable consequence. I don't know if my father maintained an idea of what money was selling for in 1954, or if he had a ''solid down'' in his pocket. He'd accumulated some small savings. But he didn't have the V.A., or a pension from his job. My mother didn't work. They'd been married 15 childless years before I came along. They just loved each other -- and later me. It's possible they didn't think a lot about the future. He'd already had a heart attack and didn't have so long to live. It's possible they did know that.
It's a fair measure of ourselves as adults -- of our empathy, at least -- that we try to achieve a view of our parents' lives more as they viewed them, and less in the ruthless, tunneled vision of childhood (not that our parents' view would necessarily be clearer). Looking at houses -- it's my belief -- was the center puzzle-piece of my father's imagination. His pleasure. It was not all of what he dreamed, by any means: he had fears for sure, solid memories, some future remaining. He loved. But through the car window, his imagination's private screen, he could see himself most vividly -- standing in his yard, trimming his young trees, watering new grass, building certain things, relaxing in a lawn chair on a freshly mowed palette of green, arriving home from his job at dusk, the house lights blazing, my mother and me in attendance, sitting down to dinner in a room with a real picture window that showed an aqua sky, then later drifting to sleep tired, and waking refreshed and eager, backing down a sloped driveway on his journey to work, whistling a tune, a sweet, rare magic in his head. The song of the suburbs.
I hear this private music to this day -- being, after all, his son. Though that time, and he, are far away from me now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ELEANOR DAVIS AND KATHERINE GUILLEN) (SR6-SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); FORT SMITH, AR, USA (79%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (73%) MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



171 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1338 words

HEADLINE: Operation Iraqi Filmmakers

BYLINE: By JOHN ANDERSON

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- In most ways, it was a typical Sunday evening house party in the Venice neighborhood here. A pool. A band. A mix of Hollywood types. A couple of vegetarian options. And one neighbor complaining about the noise.
''I'm distraught!'' cried the neighbor, a woman who had materialized at the home's back door. ''I'm exhausted. I have to work. You have to stop!'' The host assured her the music would last only a little while and sent her on her way. The band kicked off another number. It was 6:50 p.m.
The guests were urged to get something to eat. ''I don't know,'' said Yasir Kareem, 27, waving his hands theatrically in the air. ''The distraught woman might be back.'' The message seemed pretty clear: Back home in Baghdad, noisy parties aren't something people tend to complain about.
But here in Los Angeles, almost everything was a surprise for Mr. Kareem and his four fellow travelers, aspiring filmmakers from Iraq in town for a week of education and revelations, including the sort available on the Venice Beach boardwalk. 
''They haven't seen people from different countries, or people dancing on the beach,'' said Atia al-Daradji, 47. ''Or the beach. Or half-naked women.'' With his brother, the director Mohamed al-Daradji (''Son of Babylon''), Mr. Daradji founded the Iraqi Independent Film Center in Baghdad, which works with would-be filmmakers and selected the group for the American trip. ''They're young,'' he said, smiling. ''They will definitely come away with a different view of the world. They're already asking, 'Why don't we have this in Iraq?' ''
What they definitely don't have at home is a film industry, something being addressed, at least to a degree, by the nonprofit International Film Exchange. The exchange brought the students over from Baghdad where, several weeks before, the filmmaker Bill Megalos of Los Angeles had conducted a 10-day workshop on storytelling and editing. The exchange is devoted primarily to cultural give and take and international understanding. But in the case of the Iraqis, it may help create a base of knowledgeable filmmakers, a ''crew'' as the young men themselves called it. Since the economic sanctions imposed after the first gulf war, making films in Iraq has become all but impossible.
''It was my family business,'' said the bearish Salam S. Mazeel, 35, whose mother was a sound designer, and who wants to be a cinematographer like his father. ''But in the '90s, everything stopped. We go to the hard times. No money, no hope.''
After his father died, his mother quit the business to raise her children; there was no cinema anyway. ''That's how it was,'' Mr. Mazeel said. ''Now, maybe something is different and we come to America and there are a few things in our minds. Like how to apply American rules to Iraqi movies.''
Instruction on the rules arrived in various ways. On the leafy campus of the University of California, Los Angeles, Mr. Mazeel and his colleagues -- including a redheaded 21-year-old, Omid Khald, who had responded to the Pacific by jumping into it -- were hearing from people like the former Universal Pictures chairman David Linde and the screenwriter Linda Voorhees, who talked about financing and story structure.
During a trip to the Westwood neighborhood and its old-style movie palaces, the Iraqis got to see what some of them had never seen: a film in a theater (''Man of Steel,'' about which they were lukewarm). The Sunday party at Mr. Megalos's home had been attended by several film veterans, including the director Jeremy Kagan and the Oscar-winning screenwriter Barry Morrow (''Rain Man''), who talked to the young men about their expectations, their scripts and the films they plan to make this summer in Iraq. (Bringing over female students was a cultural impossibility; young Iraqi women cannot travel with unrelated men.)
''They're so hungry,'' Mr. Morrow said. ''I'm afraid of giving them bad information, maybe saying something flippant that they take the wrong way.''
Mr. Megalos agreed: ''They take things very literally.''
Mr. Morrow said the Socratic method was best: ''They were asking me, 'What do you think of Tarkovsky?' And you have to flip it. 'What do you think of Tarkovsky?' ''
The conversation about Andrei Tarkovsky symbolizes the culture gap at hand. Years ago, Iraqi filmmakers would regularly attend VGIK, the Moscow film school; Iraqi film was influenced far more by European than American cinema. In Los Angeles, the Iraqi visitors were being advised by almost everyone to make their stories clear, to emphasize narrative over style.
''Hollywood movies travel everywhere,'' said Kate Moulene, chief marketing officer of the Humpty Dumpty Institute, which runs the International Film Exchange. ''They've figured out here how to tell stories to the greatest number of people.''
What would help make the filmmaker exchange a success, Ms. Moulene said, was if the Iraqis took away a little of that sensibility and applied it to their homegrown projects, which will be made, once they return to Baghdad, with financing from the United States Embassy. ''But it's also good for them to know what the options are,'' she added.
As Mr. Khald noted, ''I've never even seen a 35-millimeter camera.''
The five visitors got to see the facilities at U.C.L.A., the Hollywood production company Blue Collar, the Hollywood sign (naturally) and ''World War Z'' in 3-D, even though the prospect had been making Mr. Megalos apprehensive. ''They might not have the love of zombies that Americans do,'' he said. There was a split decision: The younger men loved it; the older were dismissive. (''America and Hollywood,'' they said, ''save the world.'')
Mr. Megalos has run filmmaking workshops for nonprofit organizations in Uganda, Kenya and Laos, which was where he came to the attention of David Prettyman, chief strategic officer for the Humpty Dumpty Institute. The institute's original mission was mine clearance, and ''we still do that,'' said Mr. Prettyman, who was acting as the Iraqis' escort in Hollywood. ''But our interests have expanded to cultural understanding, cultural diplomacy, educating the U.S. public about rest of world and working with the U.N. to do that.'' When the group decided to set up the Baghdad workshop, financing came from the United States Embassy there, and someone suggested that Mr. Megalos, an institute newcomer, participate.
''The students said that meeting me in Baghdad was important,'' Mr. Megalos said, ''because I was the first American they'd met who was not in uniform, and to them that meant a worldview that's broader than a military mission.''
''Once they got to L.A.,'' he said, ''they met a lot a of different people, but meeting me first and spending 12 to 15 hours a day together, showed them a different view of Americans beyond their stereotypes.''
Which is precisely the point, said one of the institute's founders, William J. Rouhana. ''We had this event,'' he said, referring to the Global Creative Forum, ''where we were bringing the Hollywood community into our work. But the logical step was bringing film industry professionals to other countries. And any time different peoples are talking it's a good thing.''
Like his compatriots, Mr. Kareem brought with him an original short-film script; and like his compatriots' stories, his was about a child, in this case a 9-year-old girl who scavenges scrap metal to sell, saving money for a school uniform. One day, she finds a uniform while looking through some trash. ''The tagline,'' Mr. Kareem said, ''is: 'A Girl Finds What She Dreams About in the Garbage.' ''
That all the students are making films about children is no coincidence: Back in Baghdad, Mohamed al-Daradji told them that films about kids would provide entree into international festivals.
And even though he'd never seen an animated film in a theater, Sajjad Abbas, the youngest of the travelers at 19, was planning to make one. ''It's the story of a child who is being persecuted and wants to become a superhero,'' he said.
Does he succeed?
''Of course.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Atia al-Daradji, top left and above left with Omid Khald, is a founder of an Iraqi film center, and brought a group to Los Angeles to study film. They bicycled, top center, journeyed to the Pacific and visited the production company Blue Collar, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (87%); FAMILY (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (77%); NOISE POLLUTION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (71%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (66%); BEACHES (66%); DESERT STORM (66%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



172 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Qaeda Rebels Are Gone. Death Isn't.

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
TIMBUKTU, Mali -- IT'S time for my annual win-a-trip journey, in which I take a university student with me on a reporting trip to Africa. So I'm here in Timbuktu, the ancient crossroads of the Sahara, with Erin Luhmann, a journalism student from the University of Wisconsin, navigating roadblocks and jittery soldiers in a city that Islamist militants ruled until early this year.
It's still tense, and many Malians fear that militants in an Al Qaeda African affiliate could return with their hijacked, extremist distortion of Islam. Al Qaeda extremists antagonized the public by closing schools, banning music, destroying monuments, flogging citizens and arresting women for not fully veiling themselves or going to the market without a male relative. 
The mood seems to be: Thank God for France! When the United States and the rest of the world dithered and Al Qaeda was poised to capture all of Mali, France dispatched troops and quickly drove the Islamists out into the desert. Left behind was a trove of documents such as one found by The Associated Press in which Qaeda bosses scolded a commander for lagging in his expense reports. Who knew that even terrorists have to file expenses?
Yet, while Erin and I found the killing over, the dying continues on a vast scale -- from hunger.
Many Malians are always on the edge of starvation, and the fighting and insecurity have pushed some over the brink. We saw an 18-month-old boy, Aljou Aguel, who was so malnourished and deprived of protein that skin had peeled off his legs.
It must have been extremely painful, but, like other starving children, he did not cry. A child who is dying of hunger is like a zombie, barely responsive, with a glazed expression. The body saves every bit of energy to keep major organs functioning; not a calorie is to be wasted by crying.
The World Food Program, which is trying to alleviate the shortages, estimates that one child an hour is now dying of malnutrition in Mali -- a far higher toll than that lost in the warfare itself. Some 1.4 million Malians are at risk, it says.
In a village outside Timbuktu, Erin and I met a woman named Bintu Dicku who has already lost four of her 10 children and seemed close to losing a fifth. Her youngest, Ghaisha, is 7 months old and suffering from severe malnutrition.
''Every month she loses weight,'' Bintu Dicku told us, at a gathering to distribute World Food Program rations to families with small children. ''Her only chance is this food distribution.''
The hunger is closely linked to politics. Bintu Dicku said that family members used to earn money as day laborers so that they could buy food in the markets. But with the Al Qaeda occupation and subsequent insecurity, the economy has collapsed, and there are no jobs or opportunities to make money.
In the past, family members supplemented market-bought food with their own crops or fish that they caught. But now, they say, it is too dangerous to farm or fish, and women are afraid of going out alone for fear of being accused by Islamists of being un-Islamic.
''When you go outside, you might run into armed groups,'' she said. ''The Islamists always have a problem with you not being dressed right, or not having a beard if you're a man. There's always trouble.''
And so Ghaisha is starving.
While the world closely followed events in Mali when bullets were flying, it has been much less interested in quiet deaths from hunger. The World Food Program has raised only a bit more than half the money it seeks for Mali.
Across a swath of North and West Africa, encompassing countries from Mauritania to Libya, Mali to northern Nigeria, Islamic extremism poses a basic risk to stability.
The poverty and insecurity feed into each other. Because the region is poor and suffers widespread illiteracy, it is ripe for manipulation by Islamic extremists who claim to speak for religion. The lack of government services also creates openings for smuggling and corruption.
Islamic extremists gained a foothold in Timbuktu through cigarette smuggling (even though they banned smoking when they took power), the lucrative kidnapping of Westerners, and narcotics trafficking. One of northern Mali's most remarkable sights is a Boeing 727 marooned in the desert: It was used by narcotics traffickers and, by some accounts, landed for drugs to be off-loaded but then became mired in the sand and couldn't take off again.
Stay alert to the risks of Islamists and groups affiliated with Al Qaeda in West Africa and North Africa, but don't overlook the twinned humanitarian challenges. Bombs and machine guns draw television cameras, but the most lethal and immediate threat to children here is now simple, excruciating hunger.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); MALNUTRITION (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STARVATION (87%); FAMILY (86%); JOURNALISM (77%); ARMED FORCES (76%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (74%); RELIGION (70%); FOOD INDUSTRY (69%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (91%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (96%); AFRICA (91%); FRANCE (87%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



173 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Mixed Signals on Main Street

BYLINE: By CONRAD DE AENLLE

 BODY:
PRICES of stocks, bonds and other investments sank toward the end of the second quarter as the Federal Reserve signaled that it might begin what Wall Street has called ''the taper'' -- the reduction and then the possible reversal of bond purchases that the Fed has used for years to support the economy and markets.
American and foreign stocks, high-grade and high-yield bonds, gold and other commodities and many foreign currencies fell sharply in the quarter's last weeks, sharply reducing earlier gains. Still, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the period at 1,606.28, up 2.4 percent.
The index had been as high as 1,687.18 on May 22, the day when the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, made a remark to Congress that was thought to herald the taper. The decline in stocks that started that day was accompanied by a drop in bond prices that raised the yield on the 10-year Treasury to 2.5 percent on June 30, from about 1.9 percent when the quarter began. 
Mr. Bernanke said the central bank would ''take a step down in our pace of purchases'' if economic growth continued to pick up, a pledge reiterated a month later in a statement issued by the Fed panel that sets monetary policy. That the markets took his rhetorical clearing of the throat -- with no actual change in policy -- so badly is especially ominous because the taper wouldn't signal that something was amiss. Instead, it would mean that precrisis normality had returned, with interest rates set by the markets and not the Fed.
''People are preparing for an eventual cessation to the Fed's program and an environment where real rates normalize a bit from historically low levels,'' said Russ Koesterich, global chief investment strategist at BlackRock. ''The reaction was probably more violent than the Fed might have anticipated. No one wants to be the last to leave the party.''
One guest who has grabbed his coat is Daniel O'Keefe, lead manager of the Artisan Global Value fund. He finds fewer prospects in the stock market as something else returns to normal: valuations.
''Over the last four years or so, there has been a steady march up from the bottom, when valuations were extremely attractive,'' he said. ''That has largely evaporated. I'm not surprised to see the market coming back down.''
Mr. O'Keefe regards American stocks as fairly valued and therefore ''just not compelling,'' though he still finds opportunities abroad.
James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist at Wells Capital Management, does feel compelled to buy American stocks. The market has been worried by the run-up in bond yields, but he made a distinction between a ''bad yield rise'' accompanied by declining confidence in the economy and a ''good yield rise'' when confidence is rising.
Surveying nearly a half-century of market history, he observes that rising yields have been benign when 10-year Treasury rates are below 6 percent and have been harmful when Treasury rates are higher. With the Treasury yield well below that level and various measures of confidence rising, Mr. Paulsen remains bullish on stocks and forecasts a range for the S.& P. 500 of 1,550, near the recent low, to 1,750, which would be a record high. He does not fear the taper.
''Why is the Fed discussing tapering? Why have bond yields been rising since April?'' he asked. ''Because confidence about the sustainability of this economic recovery is rising.''
Despite a shaky June, United States general stock funds managed a 2.2 percent gain for the quarter, according to Morningstar. Funds that focus on health care, financial services, technology and communication were among the strongest performers, while specialists in commodities and natural resources were conspicuously weak.
Funds that hold foreign stocks fared poorly, too, declining by 2.5 percent, on average. They were pulled lower by emerging markets, especially in Latin America.
The average taxable bond fund fell 2.3 percent, with funds that concentrate on long-term government issues down 6.3 percent.
Daniel Fuss, lead manager of the Loomis Sayles Investment Grade Bond fund, said he expected Treasury bonds to keep falling -- or not. It depends on the time frame.
''On a longer-term basis, I think we're in a secular rise in interest rates,'' he said, ''but over the last few weeks, the rise in Treasury yields has gotten well ahead of itself.''
Mr. Fuss recommends avoiding Treasury issues and focusing instead on corporate debt, either investment grade or high yield. As for the taper, he contends that it is not a done deal.
''My take is that Bernanke said this whole thing would be data-dependent,'' Mr. Fuss said. ''The rise in Treasury yields might promote some negative economic numbers, particularly in the residential construction area, so that could be a problem.''
Even before yields rose, some snippets of data were iffy or worse. In late June, the government estimated first-quarter economic growth at a revised 1.8 percent, a sharp reduction from a 2.4 percent estimate in May.
Komal Sri-Kumar, president of Sri-Kumar Global Strategies, an investment consulting firm, is another who isn't holding his breath waiting for the taper. He envisions the decline in stocks depressing economic data and sentiment measures, forcing the Fed to reconsider.
''The Fed will say a taper is premature, and the market will be happy because the Fed is not tapering,'' Mr. Sri-Kumar said.
He expects a correction in stocks to last well into the summer, then reverse as the Fed signals that the stimulus will continue. But sometime later, perhaps around year-end, investors are likely to sour on the Fed's perpetual bond-buying, known as quantitative easing, and send stocks into a more meaningful decline, he warned.
''The Fed can't support the market indefinitely without the fundamentals to support it,'' he said. ''Eventually the market will realize it.''
Mr. Sri-Kumar considers the 10-year Treasury a buy at its end-of-quarter yield of about 2.5 percent, and he also likes sectors of the stock market that are sensitive to interest rates and have been hit hard lately.
''This is a good time to bottom-fish in utilities,'' he said. ''They are known as a defensive sector and still offer significant potential.''
But in his view, emerging-market stocks and high-yield bonds, which attract risk-seeking investors, will remain under pressure.
OTHERS have higher hopes for emerging markets. They have been subdued for some time, making them too much of an opportunity to pass up for value investors like Mr. O'Keefe, who is putting money to work there. So is Mr. Koesterich at BlackRock, who also likes economically sensitive domestic stocks in sectors like energy and technology.
''With equity markets, the good news is that they're reasonably valued in the U.S. and cheap overseas,'' he said.
As for Treasury bonds, he expressed the same misgivings as Mr. Fuss and advised steering clear of interest-rate-sensitive assets in general as business as usual returns.
''Over the next couple of years it's a safe bet that yields are going to go higher,'' he cautioned. ''A lot of plays that made sense when rates were very low are going to make less sense as the rate environment normalizes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: During the last weeks of the second quarter, Ben Bernanke's hint that the Federal Reserve might wind down its longstanding bond-buying program sent stock and bond markets into turmoil. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JASON REED/REUTERS
JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (BU28) DRAWING: KOREN SHADMI (DRAWING BY KOREN SHADMI)
CHARTS: SECOND QUARTER (Source: Morningstar) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BOND MARKETS (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CURRENCIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (63%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



174 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: That TV? Buy It After Closing

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
Buyers waiting to close on a mortgage should avoid doing anything that might change their credit picture until after the documents are signed and the money is delivered.
Borrowers may assume that the lender is satisfied with their financial status once their loan has been approved. But since 2010, Fannie Mae has required lenders to recheck a borrower's credit right before closing the mortgage. And if new liabilities pop up, the loan may be delayed or even canceled.
''We tell our clients about this upfront, and keep reminding them through the entire process not to go buy a new bed or a refrigerator,'' said Michael Daversa, the president and founder of Atlantic Residential Mortgage, which is based in Westport, Conn. ''What you're supposed to do is keep everything status quo.'' 
It seems reasonable enough that if you're buying a home, you might want to buy a flat-screen television in time for move-in day. But if your purchase shows up as a new credit card account with a $3,000 balance, the loan might be sent back to underwriting in order to redo the calculations, Mr. Daversa said. A new loan could potentially have a higher interest rate.
Mortgage lenders are also on the lookout for new credit inquiries. A credit inquiry from, say, Toyota signals that the borrower is probably in the process of buying a car -- making the kind of large purchase that is another red flag.
Such purchases just before closing may not affect the loan status of the most creditworthy borrowers, said David Stein, the chief operating officer and a partner of Residential Home Funding, which is based in White Plains. Borrowers with high debt-to-income ratios, and therefore tighter finances, are the ones who need to be careful.
The maximum debt-to-income ratio allowed by Fannie Mae is 45 percent (meaning that a maximum 45 percent of your gross monthly income can go to cover debt, mortgage and housing expenses).
''It's more of an issue for people on the cusp of approval where they just get in under the wire,'' Mr. Stein said. ''If someone was a 44 percent at the approval, if they incurred more debt at the credit refresh, and the debt goes over 45, we can't close that loan.''
Mr. Stein has also seen the credit recheck cause problems for working couples when only one spouse is named on the loan, usually because the other spouse has a low credit score. Basing the loan on one spouse's income instead of two means the lender will see a higher debt-to-income ratio. In reality, the couple may easily be able to afford buying new furniture, but because the bank isn't seeing both incomes, a rise in debt could still cause problems with their loan before the closing.
To avoid any last-minute problem, Mr. Stein advises that all borrowers check with their loan officer before taking on any new debt.
Borrowers should also be aware that lenders now routinely reverify their employment status just before closing. This has long been a standard practice in the industry, but it fell by the wayside when the housing market was hot and mortgages were a lot easier to come by, Mr. Stein said.
Now that it is once again routine, borrowers cannot expect to hide a job loss or change of employment from their lender.
A borrower should immediately alert his or her loan officer of any change in job status. Further, Mr. Stein says, if a borrower's employer is being subsumed into another company, and the company name will no longer match the name on the borrower's loan application, that, too, should be reported to the lender in order to avoid delays at closing time.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (67%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (73%); ATLANTIC RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE CORP (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (73%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



175 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: Lauren Siciliano, John Conte Jr.

 BODY:
Lauren Alexandra Siciliano and John Robert Conte Jr. were married Friday at the Oratory Church of St. Boniface in Brooklyn. The Rev. Anthony Andreassi, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony. 
The bride, 29, is keeping her name. She is a vice president in the strategic investments group of the New York City Economic Development Corporation in Manhattan, where she is managing the implementation of Hurricane Sandy business recovery programs. She graduated magna cum laude from Princeton and received a master's degree in public policy from Harvard.
She is a daughter of Linda J. Siciliano and Robert J. Siciliano of Manalapan, N.J. The bride's father is a vice president in the information technology division of JPMorgan Chase in Manhattan, where he provides technical support for desktop services. Her mother is an editorial assistant at Greater Media Newspapers in Manalapan.
The groom, also 29, manages a group of banking industry recruiters in the Hoboken, N.J., office of Opus Career Management, a British recruiting firm. He graduated from Ursinus College in Collegeville, Pa.
He is a son of Cheryl A. Conte and Mr. Conte Sr. of Marlton, N.J. His mother is an independent court reporter and analyzes depositions. She works from Marlton. His father is a sales manager at Trinity Solar, a retailer of solar power systems in Wall, N.J.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); RELIGION (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RETAILERS (65%); SOLAR ENERGY (64%); HURRICANE SANDY (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (82%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (82%); JPM (LSE) (82%); 8634 (TSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (82%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (82%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



176 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A New Education Mayor

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The next mayor of New York City will assume control of the country's largest school system at an especially challenging moment. That person will oversee installation of the rigorous new Common Core learning standards. This ambitious set of academic goals, which has been adopted by all but a handful of states, is intended to move schools away from rote learning and memorization toward a writing-intensive curriculum that cultivates reasoning skills required by the new economy.
In addition to a new curriculum, this transformation will require new tests, and, most important, a high-quality professional development system that helps teachers master a whole new approach to instruction.
And that's not all. The next mayor will have to negotiate a new contract with teachers and install a new teacher evaluation system while managing a system that consists of 1.1 million students, 75,000 teachers and about 1,800 schools. One huge challenge is that only about 22 percent of students who started ninth grade in 2008 were college-ready by state measures when they graduated in 2012. Improving on that distressingly low figure has to be a high priority. 
Nearly all of the candidates speak passionately about education. And some -- notably Bill de Blasio, Christine Quinn and William Thompson Jr. -- have been thoughtful and specific in terms of what they would do to move the system forward. But emotional flash points in this campaign have centered on three issues: mayoral control, specifically whether the State Legislature gave Mayor Michael Bloomberg too much power when it consolidated authority over the schools in City Hall in 2002; failing schools and when to close them; and the role of charter schools, which receive public money but are exempt from some state regulations.
THE MAYOR'S ROLE Mr. Bloomberg has accomplished a great deal since becoming the first mayor to gain full control of the system. He brought coherence and stability to a troubled organizational structure that saw school chancellors come and go as if through a revolving door. He swept away a byzantine bureaucracy that had defeated his predecessors and created clear lines of authority. He negotiated a union contract that ended a transfer policy allowing senior teachers to move from one school to another, pushing out younger teachers, even if the receiving school did not want them. He improved graduation rates.
Mr. Bloomberg's often highhanded style, however, alienated parents, teachers and lawmakers, some of whom now want a greater check on mayoral power. One solution would be to tinker with the 13-member board that he consults with on policy issues and to which he appoints eight members. Mr. Thompson proposes an arrangement under which the mayor would appoint only six members. The chancellor of the City University of New York would appoint a member, as would the chairmen of local groups known as Community Education Councils. This could conceivably give the community and educators more of a hand in policy.
The old system involved 32 school districts and plenty of bad governance and patronage. None of the candidates want to return to that. But centralized mayoral control undermined local support for teachers and principals and closed off access for parents. Most of the candidates seem to understand that, in one way or another, the next mayor needs to rebuild some of the system's local apparatus. Mr. de Blasio, for example, promises to ''revamp mayoral control'' to allow for more community input. Similarly, Ms. Quinn has promised to create an online ''parent university'' where adults can learn about the system.
FAILING SCHOOLS Mr. Bloomberg's policy of closing large, failing schools and replacing them with smaller schools is unpopular with teachers, many of whom have to find jobs elsewhere in the system. And some adults have emotional ties to a school, however terrible it has become. The city has sometimes made matters worse by handling closures badly. But replacing dropout factories with specialized schools that provide individual attention is a sound idea. Of the 142 schools the city has either closed or begun phasing out, many had outlived their usefulness.
A 2012 study by the nonprofit research group MDRC found that New York City students who attended small, specialized high schools that typically served about 400 students each were more likely to graduate than students at large, traditional high schools, some of which served 3,000 students or more. More striking, city data show that the average graduation rate for the large high schools that were in the process of phasing out during 2006 was only 38 percent. Last year, the average graduation rate for the schools that replaced them -- often in the same building -- was 70 percent.
Nevertheless, Mr. Thompson has said that as mayor he would ''stop school closures and introduce a comprehensive system to support struggling schools.'' Similarly, Mr. de Blasio promises to fight ''unfair closures by standing up for struggling schools.'' Ms. Quinn criticizes the current administration for ''treating school closings like a goal in itself'' and said closure should be used as a last resort when ''all else has failed.'' But the candidates should not shrink from closing schools that are no longer serving their students.
LOCATING CHARTER SCHOOLS New York City has 159 charter schools, which educate about 5.5 percent of the city's children. Nationally, charter schools often perform no better than traditional public schools and sometimes worse. But a study this year by Stanford University's Center for Research on Education Outcomes showed that New York City was an exception, and that typical charter school students learned more in a year in reading and math than peers in their neighborhood district schools. New York City has a rigorous charter oversight process and a large supply of education talent, and perhaps most important, it provides charter operators free space.
But critics say the city's charter school effort has a big problem -- namely, it allows some charter schools to share precious space with regular public schools. In a few extreme cases, critics say, the regular school students are treated like second-class citizens in a building that once belonged to them.
The candidates generally respect what high-performing charters can do, but some are worried about co-location. Sal Albanese, for example, promises to end ''the aggressive co-location of charter schools in public school buildings, which has created a sense of segregation and resentment between students.'' Adolfo Carrión Jr. believes the city needs to be smarter about how it places charters, but he is firmly committed to expanding such schools. Similarly, Christine Quinn would continue co-locations but wants a consistent, transparent process that would be the same in every neighborhood.
Given the tension over this issue, some critics have suggested opening new charter schools only in school buildings that fall vacant. But a proposal by the teachers' union that would give a local community panel veto power is a bad idea. If anything, the city should find ways to cross-pollinate, so that struggling schools learn from the excellent charter networks that sometimes occupy the space next door.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CURRICULA (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



177 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Three Funds That Made Sense of a Bewildering Market

BYLINE: By TIM GRAY

 BODY:
IN a hurly-burly quarter, with some stock-market sectors sagging and others surging, managers of three of the top-performing mutual funds managed to find rising returns in places as varied as restaurants, roadsters and robots.
Home Cooking in Texas 
The Hodges Fund, based in Dallas, is a go-anywhere offering; it can buy ''anything that looks like it ought to be trading higher in 18 months,'' said Don W. Hodges, who manages the fund with his son, Craig. ''We do small, medium and large companies. We go for growth and value stocks.''
The fund's charter lets the two men invest abroad, but mostly they don't, the father said.
''We're at a disadvantage internationally,'' he said. ''You can't be in close touch with the markets.''
Their only recent nondomestic holding was Toyota, which sells many of its cars in the United States.
The elder Mr. Hodges is an old-school stock picker who prefers chats with a company's customers and competitors to computer algorithms when hunting for stocks. He encountered Michael Kors Holdings, the fashion design and retailing company, while visiting a mall with his wife. And he decided to buy shares of Luby's, the restaurant chain, partly because he'd dined in other restaurants owned by the Houston restaurateurs Christopher J. and Harris J. Pappas. The Pappas brothers lead Luby's, with Christopher serving as president and C.E.O. and Harris as a director.
''They're good operators, and they make excellent food,'' Mr. Hodges said.
Luby's exemplifies a recent tendency for the managers: a focus on their home state. The fund's top three holdings as of May 31 all hailed from Texas: the Texas Pacific Land Trust as well as A. H. Belo, the media company, and Luby's. Over all, nearly a third of the 30 stocks in the portfolio were Texas-based.
Texas Pacific, one of the Lone Star State's largest landowners, has been part of the portfolio since 2006, Mr. Hodges said. The trust, created out of the bankruptcy of the Texas and Pacific Railway in the late 1800s, owns nearly a million Texas acres and generates income from oil-pumping royalties and cattle-grazing leases. ''Every year, the land is worth more,'' he said.
The Hodges Fund, which has an expense ratio of 1.43 percent, began in 1992. Since then, it has returned an annualized average of 9.4 percent. It returned 9.43 percent in the second quarter this year.
Investing in Innovation
Like the father-and-son team at Hodges, Tom F. Marsico, who manages the Marsico Global fund with James G. Gendelman, has the freedom to invest wherever he finds opportunity. He can buy companies of any size and in any country, though he has lately hewed to the United States and Europe. He's choosier than the Hodges Fund in at least one respect: he seeks out growth companies -- that is, those that he believes can increase earnings at above-average rates.
Recently, that inclination led him to drug makers like Roche Holdings, Biogen Idec and Gilead Sciences, three of the fund's top holdings on April 30.
Just a few years ago, Mr. Marsico shied from pharmaceuticals, partly out of concern that product pipelines at bigger drug companies seemed puny. He said he recently returned because he had noticed the beginnings of a new wave of innovation.
A sense of a new era's dawn took him to Tesla Motors, the maker of high-end electric cars, including the much-publicized Roadster. Mr. Marsico was impressed enough with the cars that he bought one, a Model S sedan -- and ended up having problems. The indicator showing the amount of charge remaining on the battery malfunctioned, but a software update corrected the glitch, and Tesla's quick resolution redoubled his conviction about the company. ''They're very customer-focused,'' he said. ''Their aim is to ensure that the user has a good experience.''
While investing in a greener economy with Tesla, Mr. Marsico has moved away from traditional energy companies, recently shunning oil producers. He said he stayed away because stock prices in the sector were driven more by oil prices than by company fundamentals. ''With North America producing more oil than we've had in several decades,'' he said, ''we believe oil prices are coming down.''
Mr. Marsico started Marsico Capital Management in 1997 in Denver but has managed Marsico Global only since 2011, when another manager left. The fund, with an expense ratio of 1.6 percent, returned 5.9 percent in the second quarter.
Big Trends, Small Stocks
Like Mr. Marsico, John P. Bichelmeyer, lead manager of Buffalo Emerging Opportunities, also hunts for growth companies. But his fund buys shares only of little ones -- microcaps, which he defines as having market values of less than $1 billion.
To identify promising micros, Mr. Bichelmeyer and the co-manager, Craig A. Richard, first look for demographic and economic trends that should help to propel small, growing enterprises. The trends must be ''common-sense, easy to identify and easy to measure,'' Mr. Bichelmeyer said.
Among them are the growth of mobile telephony and social media, cost containment in health care and the substitution of technology for labor in manufacturing and other industries.
That third trend led them to iRobot, in Bedford, Mass. The company makes small robots that have cleared bombs and operated roadside sentries for the military in Iraq and Afghanistan, as well as some that clean pools, floors and gutters for property owners in the United States. The company's military business has slackened recently, Mr. Bichelmeyer said. But consumer sales have continued to grow, even in recession-staggered Europe. ''Ninety percent of the revenue is coming from consumers, and Spain has been one of the stronger markets,'' he said.
Mr. Bichelmeyer and Mr. Richard try to buy companies that their fund can own for three to five years; its recent turnover rate was 21 percent, Morningstar said.
''Patience is one of our strengths,'' Mr. Bichelmeyer said. ''A lot of people are looking out to just the next quarter.''
The fund, with an expense ratio of 1.5 percent, returned 11.5 percent in the second quarter.
Mr. Bichelmeyer is also a co-manager of the Buffalo Small Cap fund, which returned 8.6 percent in the second quarter, making it another of the period's top performers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In looking for growth stocks, Tom Marsico of the Marsico Global fund recently returned to buying shares of drug companies (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS SCHNEIDER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
John Bichelmeyer of the Buffalo Emerging Opportunities fund specializes in stocks with a market value less than $1 billion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE HEBERT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 At the Hodges Fund, Don Hodges can invest anywhere in the world, but nearly one-third of its holdings are based in Texas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REX C. CURRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); ROYALTIES (67%); MINERAL ROYALTIES (64%)

COMPANY: MICHAEL KORS HOLDINGS LTD (55%); TEXAS PACIFIC LAND TRUST (53%)

TICKER: KORS (NYSE) (55%); TPL (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (55%); NAICS531190 LESSORS OF OTHER REAL ESTATE PROPERTY (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



178 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Onetime Dewhurst Ally Turns Rival In Race for Lieutenant Governorship

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
A year before State Senator Dan Patrick announced he would challenge Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst in the 2014 primary, the Houston Republican, who is also a radio host, vigorously defended Mr. Dewhurst's record on the airwaves and on his Facebook page.
In the last months of Mr. Dewhurst's unsuccessful 2012 United States Senate race against Ted Cruz, Mr. Patrick, the founder of the Texas Legislature's Tea Party Caucus, repeatedly vouched for the lieutenant governor's conservative credentials as he desperately tried to buoy support among grass-roots Republicans who had flocked to Mr. Cruz.
The move, which came despite a strained history between the two men, helped turn Mr. Patrick and Mr. Dewhurst from rivals into allies. Before the most recent legislative session, Mr. Dewhurst named Mr. Patrick as the chairman of the Senate's Education Committee, and they worked together to advance a number of school reforms.
Now, Mr. Patrick, who began his campaign in late June, has quickly become Mr. Dewhurst's fiercest critic among the field of candidates hoping to unseat him in next year's primary. 
But his work in the United States Senate race on Mr. Dewhurst's behalf could hurt his appeal to the conservative primary voters he will now have to court in the crowded race that includes two other elected state officials, Land Commissioner Jerry Patterson and Agriculture Commissioner Todd Staples.
''I think that Senator Patrick will have some tough questions that he will have to answer in that regard because the people who supported Ted Cruz during the campaign, their support for him has done nothing but grow since he's been in office,'' said JoAnn Fleming, a conservative activist who is the executive director of the political advocacy group Grassroots America We the People.
Mr. Patrick has based his campaign on the need for what he calls authentic conservative leadership in the State Senate.
''I think it's clear to a lot of people that the lieutenant governor has lost focus this session, and there have been lapses of judgment and leadership that no one can deny,'' he said in an interview with The Texas Tribune.
In response to a request for comment for this article, Travis Considine, a Dewhurst spokesman, said the lieutenant governor was focused on completing the current special session.
''When the Texas Senate finishes the business that Texans sent them to Austin to complete, Lt. Gov. Dewhurst looks forward to meeting with grass-roots voters across the state to discuss his vision for making Texas even stronger in terms of freedom, opportunity and economic strength,'' Mr. Considine said.
When Mr. Patrick officially endorsed Mr. Dewhurst, with the rest of his Republican Senate colleagues in the days before the runoff election, he joined a group of statewide officeholders that ultimately included Gov. Rick Perry, Mr. Patterson and Mr. Staples.
Mr. Patrick's decision to back Mr. Dewhurst in the United States Senate race was noteworthy in ways that the others' endorsements were not. On the Texas Senate floor during the 2011 session, he had accused Mr. Dewhurst of holding up his bill that would have prohibited ''invasive searches'' by Transportation Security Administration officials.
The situation prompted a forceful clarification from Ms. Fleming, the chairwoman of the Legislature's Tea Party Caucus at the time, who issued a statement saying that while Mr. Patrick was the founder and leader of the caucus, he did not speak on its behalf.
And before his official endorsement in 2012, Mr. Patrick had already publicly tipped his hat in Mr. Dewhurst's direction. In late May that year, Mr. Patrick posted a message on his Facebook page declaring that over the course of his three terms in the Legislature, Mr. Dewhurst had supported his conservative agenda ''98 percent of the time.''
''Voters will make their own final decision, but the facts are facts,'' Mr. Patrick wrote. ''In this case the facts simply don't support the charge that he is a moderate, no matter how many times they are made.''
Mr. Patrick also conducted an interview with Mr. Cruz on his radio show, later widely circulated by the Dewhurst campaign, in which Mr. Patrick lobbed several criticisms at the candidate, suggesting that Mr. Cruz was overly combative and ignorant of the Legislature's inner workings.
After Mr. Cruz, during a tense exchange with Mr. Patrick, accused Mr. Dewhurst of obstructing a 2011 bill supported by many conservatives that would have banned so-called sanctuary cities, Mr. Patrick responded with a fiery defense of Mr. Dewhurst's actions.
Mr. Cruz asked whether the ban would have passed into law if Mr. Patrick had been lieutenant governor. ''If I had been lieutenant governor, I would have done the exact same thing that happened,'' Mr. Patrick said.
More recently, Mr. Patrick told the Tribune he thought Mr. Cruz had done a fantastic job since he went to Washington, but he declined to say whether he would make the same choice again.
''That was then, this is a difference race -- and a lot of things have changed since then,'' Mr. Patrick said of his onetime support for Mr. Dewhurst.
He pointed to what he called Mr. Dewhurst's mishandling of a Republican effort in the first special session to pass an omnibus bill restricting abortions in the state. Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat, filibustered for about 11 hours, and the ensuing debate and boisterous gallery prevented senators from approving the legislation before a midnight deadline.
Speaking to reporters that night, Mr. Dewhurst blamed an ''unruly mob'' in the Senate gallery for the failure. The events led Mr. Perry to call lawmakers back the next day to get the job done in a second special session -- and Mr. Patrick promptly issued a statement saying he would immediately use a procedural tactic to force a vote on the measure if Democrats attempted another delay.
What direction the race will take as Mr. Patterson and Mr. Staples begin engaging, and as candidates file their initial fund-raising reports, is uncertain.
But there are signs that Mr. Patrick could soothe lingering ill will among primary voters. Though all four Republican candidates currently hold elected office, 61 percent of Texas Republican primary voters surveyed had yet to form an opinion of them, according to a University of Texas/Texas Tribune poll conducted in June.
And Ms. Fleming said that what she viewed as Mr. Patrick's otherwise strong record on conservative issues could overcome what she called a single error in judgment if he proved responsive to voters' concerns.
''Senator Patrick believed he did what he needed to do at that time.'' she said. ''But I will tell you that I absolutely believe in forgiving people and moving forward. When people have their feelings bruised, they've got to have their woodshed moment with that candidate to move on.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lt. Gov. David Dewhurst, right, and State Senator Dan Patrick, now his opponent. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARJORIE KAMYS COTERA FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (76%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); EDUCATION REFORM (68%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: TED CRUZ (89%); RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



179 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS TRIBUNE; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Transportation Dept. Hits Hurdles in Seeking Financing

BYLINE: By AMAN BATHEJA. 
abatheja@texastribune.org

 BODY:
When this year's first special session concluded dramatically in the Texas Senate last month with an energized crowd shouting to block the passage of a contentious abortion bill, proponents of the measure were not the only ones who were upset.
Among the other bills that died in the intense parliamentary battle was legislation to increase financing for the strapped Texas Department of Transportation. 
Gov. Rick Perry has included abortion and transportation financing on the agenda of a second special session. But the leading transportation proposal would only reduce the agency's financing shortfall, not erase it. Whether or not it passes, the agency's financial woes are likely to loom larger than ever when lawmakers convene for their next regular legislative session in 2015.
''This is part of that solution; it's not the whole solution,'' said State Senator Robert Nichols, the chairman of the Senate Transportation Committee and the author of Senate Joint Resolution 1. The legislation would require voters to approve amending the State Constitution to allow half the oil and gas severance taxes that traditionally fill the coffers of the Rainy Day Fund to be sent to the state's highway fund. Thanks to the current shale-drilling boom in Texas, the measure is estimated to steer about $900 million more to the agency a year.
''I'm hoping that we can get this passed this special session so that the citizens can vote on it in November, and when we come back next session, we'll work on other revenue streams,'' said Mr. Nichols, Republican of Jacksonville.
Finding other revenue streams to finance road construction and maintenance was a top legislative goal this year. Yet many lawmakers refused to support proposals that raised taxes or fees, or increased public debt.
State Senator Kevin P. Eltife, Republican of Tyler, said he supported Mr. Nichols's proposal but worried that the piecemeal approach would make it tougher to find a more sustainable revenue source in 2015.
''I almost believe a crisis in transportation would force us to a better solution,'' Mr. Eltife said.
Most of the state's transportation financing comes from vehicle registration fees and a 20-cent gas tax. Neither revenue source has kept up with inflation. Over the last decade, Texas has increasingly relied on debt financing and tolls to expand its highway system.
Citing strong population growth and rising costs, officials told lawmakers in January that their agency needed an additional $4 billion a year to maintain current traffic levels. Budget writers found an additional $200 million a year that the agency could use to narrow that gap.
A lack of urgency on the issue stemmed from the major road construction projects under way across the state. Those signs of health will dim after the agency's bond proceeds dry up in about two years, said James M. Bass, its chief financial officer. Drivers would still see some road construction work in 2016, but the signing of contracts for new projects would slow considerably.
Nonetheless, some lawmakers are already laying the groundwork to address the issue more vigorously in 2015. On Tuesday, the House Appropriations Committee will meet to hear testimony on several transportation financing proposals. The hearing is expected to help promote revenue options that will be on the table in two years, according to people involved.
In the meantime, should Mr. Nichols's plan draw the support of enough lawmakers this month, voters will be asked to approve it in November. State Representative Joe C. Pickett, an El Paso Democrat, predicted that lawmakers and business groups campaigning for the proposal would promote it without giving the impression that it represented a complete fix.
''I think they'll do what they can to put a positive spin on it to get it passed but leave the door open to doing more,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Rush hour in Houston. In the last decade, Texas has increasingly relied on debt financing and tolls to expand its highway system. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TRANSPORTATION PLANNING (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (89%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (87%); APPROVALS (77%); ABORTION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); POPULATION GROWTH (76%); DEBT FINANCING (76%); BUDGETS (76%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (67%); CONSTRUCTION (63%); FUEL TAX (52%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



180 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; UPDATE; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: With Gay Marriage Come Wedding Destinations

BYLINE: By EMILY BRENNAN

 BODY:
The recent Supreme Court rulings on same-sex marriage will affect a number of aspects of American life, and travel is one of them.
Within hours of the decisions that struck down the federal Defense of Marriage Act and effectively overturned Proposition 8, which in 2008 banned same-sex marriages in California, the JW Marriott San Francisco Union Square hotel on Wednesday began offering its ''Love is Love is Love'' package, including a three-course dinner, Champagne and robes for two in the price of one night's stay, starting at $324.
That same day, Orbitz began a photo contest in which participants could win flights to destinations that recognize same-sex marriage, including New York City, Seattle, Buenos Aires and Paris. 
And so began the flurry of travel promotions from all corners designed to appeal to gay couples, particularly those traveling to California, a perennial destination-wedding state that may see the same sort of bump in marriage tourism that New York and Rhode Island experienced after their state legislatures legalized same-sex marriage.
In the year following New York State's legalization of same-sex marriage in 2011, New York City saw $259 million in spending and $16 million in city revenue from same-sex couples' weddings, according to a 2012 survey by NYC & Company, the city's marketing and tourism bureau, and the city clerk's office.
California, which is already issuing marriage licenses to gay couples, may see a similar windfall. The Williams Institute at the law school of the University of California, Los Angeles, estimates that over the next three years, 37,000 California same-sex couples are likely to marry and that the state economy will gain approximately $492 million in new business revenue from same-sex couples' weddings. That estimate doesn't account for the gay couples outside California who may travel to the state to wed. The only other state on the West Coast that allows same-sex marriage is Washington, and the next closest of the 13 states that do are Minnesota and Iowa.
Neal Broverman, editor in chief of Out Traveler magazine, said that California has a bounty of wedding destinations to choose from. On the high end are hotels like the Langham Huntington in Pasadena, the US Grant Hotel in San Diego and Montage Laguna Beach, on a bluff overlooking the Pacific. More modest but equally beautiful wedding locations, he said, include Golden Gate Park in San Francisco or Griffith Park in Los Angeles.
Mr. Broverman added that he thinks the Supreme Court decision effectively legalizing same-sex marriage in California will also attract gay travelers who want to spend money in a state where their rights are recognized, regardless of their marital intentions.
''The LGBT community is very cognizant of whether a place is friendly to them, in a legal and a cultural way,'' he said. In a 2011 survey conducted by Community Marketing Inc., a research firm specializing in the gay travel market, 65 percent of gay respondents indicated that a destination's reputation of being welcoming to their community was a motivator in choosing it; 16 percent of gay men and 28 percent of lesbians said a destination's same-sex marriage laws influenced their decision in choosing a destination.
One look at the wedding guide that the Los Angeles Tourism and Convention Board updated on June 28, and it's clear that gay couples certainly have their pick of destinations in California this summer.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: San Francisco's City Hall after the recent Supreme Court decisions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH EDELSON/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (94%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); APPEALS (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); COHABITATION (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); LAWYERS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (64%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); ORBITZ WORLDWIDE INC (57%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (58%); OWW (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (58%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (57%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



181 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Austerity Won't Work If the Roof Is Leaking

BYLINE: By ROBERT H. FRANK. 
Robert H. Frank is an economics professor at the Johnson Graduate School of Management at Cornell University.

 BODY:
I RECENTLY spent a week in Berlin, where the entire city seemed under construction. In every direction, cranes and other heavy equipment dominated the landscape. Although many projects are in the private sector, innumerable others -- including bridge and highway repairs, new subway stations and other infrastructure work -- are financed by taxpayers.
But wait. Hasn't Germany been one of the most outspoken advocates of fiscal austerity after the financial crisis? Yes, and that's not a contradiction. Fiscally responsible businesses routinely borrow to invest, and so, until recently, did most governments. 
Lately, however, fears about growing public debt have caused wholesale cuts in American public investment. The Germans, of course, yield to no one in their distaste for indebtedness. But they also understand the distinction between consumption and investment. By borrowing, they've made investments whose future benefits will far outweigh repayment costs. There's nothing foolhardy about that.
The German experience suggests how we might move past our own stalled debate about economic stimulus policy. In the aftermath of the economic crisis, the policy discussion began with economists in broad agreement that unemployment remained high because total spending was too low. Keynesian stimulus proponents argued that temporary tax cuts and additional government spending would bolster hiring. Austerity advocates countered that additional government spending would merely displace private spending and that we already had too much debt in any event. And the debate has languished there.
A preponderance of evidence suggests that Keynes was right. But as the German experience illustrates, progress is possible without settling that question. The Germans are investing in infrastructure not to provide short-term economic stimulus, but because those investments promise high returns. Yet their undeniable side effect has been to bolster employment substantially in the short run.
Not all German public investments have met expectations. Berlin's new consolidated airport, for example, has suffered multiple delays and cost overruns, and parts of the city's recently constructed central rail station are to have major repairs. But private investment projects suffer occasional setbacks, too, and no one argues that businesses should stop investing on that account.
The Germans didn't become bogged down in debate over stimulus policy, and they didn't explicitly portray their infrastructure push as stimulus. But that didn't hamper their strategy's remarkable effectiveness at putting people to work. The unemployment rate in Germany, at 5.3 percent and falling, is now substantially lower than in the United States, where it ticked up to 7.6 percent last month. (By contrast, in March 2007, before the financial crisis, the rate in Germany was 9.2 percent, about five percentage points higher than in the United States.)
A prudent investment is one whose future returns exceed its costs -- including interest cost if the money is borrowed. Opportunities meeting that standard abound in the infrastructure domain. According to the American Society of Civil Engineers, the nation has a backlog of some $3.6 trillion in overdue infrastructure maintenance. No one in Congress seriously proposes that we just abandon our crumbling roads and bridges, and everyone agrees that the repair cost will grow sharply the longer we wait.
The case for accelerated infrastructure investment becomes more compelling with our economy still in the doldrums. That's because many of the needed workers and machines are now idle. If we wait, we'll need to bid them away from other tasks. Also because of the sluggish economy, the materials required for the work are now relatively cheap. If we wait, they will become more expensive. And long-term interest rates for the money to pay for the work continue to hover near record lows. They, too, will be higher if we wait.
Austerity advocates object that more deficit spending now will burden our grandchildren with crushing debt. That might be true if the proposal were to build bigger houses and stage more lavish parties with borrowed money -- as Americans, in fact, were doing in the first half of the last decade. But the objection makes no sense when applied to long-overdue infrastructure repairs. A failure to undertake that spending will gratuitously burden our grandchildren.
In 2009, austerity proponents argued against stimulus, predicting that the economy would recover quickly and spontaneously. It didn't. Later, they said we tried stimulus and it didn't work. But in the face of a projected $2 trillion shortfall in the spending needed for full employment, Congress enacted a stimulus bill totaling only $787 billion, spread over three years. And much of that injection was offset by cuts in state and local government spending.
Now austerity backers urge -- preposterously -- that infrastructure repairs be postponed until government budgets are in balance. But would they also tell an indebted family to postpone fixing a leaky roof until it paid off all its debts? Not only would the repair grow more costly with the delay, but the water damage would mount in the interim. Families should pay off debts, yes, but not in ways that actually increase their indebtedness in the longer term. The logic is the same for infrastructure.
Austerity advocates, who have been wrong at virtually every turn, are unlikely to change their minds about stimulus policy. But with continued slow growth in the outlook, it's time to reframe the debate. Our best available option, by far, is to rebuild our tattered infrastructure at fire-sale prices. If the austerity crowd disagrees, it should explain why in plain English.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); TAX RELIEF (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); CONSUMPTION (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (57%); EVIDENCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (93%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



182 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2617 words

HEADLINE: In the Old Dominion, a New Terroir

BYLINE: By ADRIENNE CARTER

 BODY:
ON a humid afternoon in late May, Luca Paschina, a winemaker born in northern Italy, made his pitch to the owner of a wine shop on Long Island. Pouring a cabernet franc reserve and a Bordeaux-style blend, he described how the red wines were aged for more than a year in French oak. And he recounted the history of Barboursville Vineyards, the 870-acre property in central Virginia where the wines were made.
During the 30-minute tasting, the owner peppered Mr. Paschina with questions. Why did he move to Virginia? What grapes does he grow?
But Mr. Paschina recognized the signs around him. The shelves filled with wines from established regions. The focus on brand names. He wasn't going to make a sale. Outside of his own state, even Mr. Paschina's lilting Italian accent can't quite compensate for the bewildering idea of ''Virginia wine.'' 
''Most shops need a certain selection of wines that are very well known, that are good money makers,'' he said. ''With the rest, they either take the time to dig through the pile and find the gems that are hidden, or fill their shelves with things that are a given. We're more of a hidden gem.''
For more than two decades, Mr. Paschina has been trying to make the case that Virginia wine deserves a place at the table with Barolo and Bordeaux. While his goal is to make Barboursville a world-class vineyard, he recognizes that it will have more success if Virginia is recognized as a world-class wine district. So he spends weekends pouring samples at wine festivals. He attends technical tastings to share ideas with winemakers. And he works with state officials to develop local marketing efforts and international trade missions.
He and other winemakers in the state have had remarkable -- even improbable -- success. When Mr. Paschina moved to Virginia from Italy in 1990, the state had fewer than 50 wineries. Now it has 275, making Virginia the sixth-largest wine region in the country, according to the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau.
As American palettes have evolved from Budweiser to Brunello di Montalcino, wineries have popped up in all 50 states, from the shores of Lake Michigan to the Texas Hill Country. While California dominates, accounting for 90 percent of the country's production, state governments nationwide are looking to wine to drive tourism and bolster agriculture.
''California has had such success and international acclaim with its wine,'' said Linda Murphy, co-author of the book ''American Wine.'' Other states ''have seen the economic boom, and they are looking to get a piece of that.''
In Virginia, wineries and vineyards, with their related jobs, taxes and sales, add roughly $750 million to the economy.
''Wine is one of the fastest-growing segments of agriculture,'' said Todd Haymore, Virginia's secretary of agriculture and forestry. ''We can't be California, but we can be the East Coast capital for wine and wine tourism.''
Therein lies a challenge for Virginia and other fledgling wine districts. Many wineries can sell their entire production in their tasting rooms. But some wine purists bristle at the tourist trade, saying it draws rowdy fun-seekers or weekenders, and not many serious oenophiles. The worry is that, in catering to this tourist market, quality suffers, making it hard to gain national and international recognition.
Virginia ''is an emerging region, so the overall quality is not as good as the overall quality of the top California wineries, but it is improving all the time,'' said Steven Spurrier, the wine merchant who organized the ''Judgment of Paris'' in 1976, an influential blind tasting that shocked the world when two California wines beat their French competitors. ''The growth is driven by the wineries' passion for what they do and by the demand of the wines they produce.''
Mr. Paschina pours his energy into Barboursville, now one of the largest wineries in the state, selling more than 38,000 cases a year. The winery, with its restaurant and inn, generates $6 million in revenue a year. Mr. Paschina concentrates on grape varieties that thrive in Virginia's red clay soil, and he adapts to the region's unpredictable growing seasons, which can offer heat waves, hail and heavy rainstorms. If a vintage isn't good, Mr. Paschina will not make certain wines, rather than put out an inferior product.
All his exacting work has a purpose. If Virginia wine doesn't connote excellence and refinement, Barboursville is a harder sell among serious connoisseurs in New York and London.
DRESSED in his usual uniform of jeans, button-down shirt, vest and Merrell boots, Mr. Paschina, 51, surveyed the acres at Barboursville, in the rolling foothills of the Southwest Mountains near Charlottesville. He pointed to a promising part of the vineyard, indicating where he planned to replace some cabernet sauvignon vines with cabernet franc, one of the main grapes in Octagon, Barboursville's high-end wine that sells for nearly $50 a bottle for the 2008 vintage. He turned to a recently cleared parcel of land, describing efforts to grow fiano, a grape usually associated with southern Italy. If he succeeds, he hopes to use the grape in a premium white blend, with viognier and vermentino.
It has taken time to understand this terroir -- the unique, indefinable combination of land, soil and climate that characterizes a vineyard. When Mr. Paschina took over, the vineyard consisted mainly of merlot, cabernet sauvignon, riesling and pinot noir grapes, popular varieties in the United States at the time. But they didn't all necessarily grow well in Virginia. Riesling and pinot noir, for example, favor cooler climates, not the hot, sticky summers of Virginia.
''I'm gradually thinking out 15 years for us,'' Mr. Paschina said. ''I can make a good pinot grigio, but not world-class. Vermentino, viognier are accessible, sophisticated. So that's what we're moving to.''
Acre by acre, he is slowly replanting, making better use of the land and climate. In doing so, he sees the potential to increase overall revenue. Pinot grigio, for which he isn't planting additional vines, is nearly $15 a bottle. By comparison, the viognier reserve goes for $22. Octagon, the $50 Bordeaux blend, is at the high end of the spectrum for Virginia wines.
The wine business has helped reshape Virginia agriculture, creating opportunities in a state dominated by livestock and field crops. Barboursville occupies a former sheep meadow. Black angus cows once grazed on the granite hillside where RdV Vineyards, a 90-acre property in Delaplane, now produces some of the state's most expensive wines. Fifteen miles west along Interstate 66, Linden Vineyards, started by the industry pioneer Jim Law in 1983, sits on a former apple orchard. Several tobacco farmers, including the Williams family that started the Homeplace Vineyard in 2004, turned to winemaking as subsidies for tobacco largely dried up.
When it comes to wine, Virginia has had a long tradition of failure. After the colonists settled in Jamestown, the local government decreed in 1619 that every man had to plant vines and ship wine back to mother England. But the vines bore little fruit. Thomas Jefferson planted European grape varietals at Monticello; though he tried for years, he never harvested enough to make wine.
More than a century later, in the early 1960s, the Zonin family, which now owns one of the largest private winemaking companies in Italy, set out to bring old-world ways to new-world wine. The family patriarch, Gianni Zonin, spent more than a decade trying to find the right spot to produce an Italian-style wine. In his view, the Napa Valley of California was too established. It was time-consuming to travel to the up-and-coming Willamette Valley in Oregon. And the cold, wet weather in the Finger Lakes region of New York was nothing like the Mediterranean climate needed for many Italian varietals.
In 1976, Mr. Zonin settled on Barboursville in Virginia, likening the soil attributes and warm climate to those of his Italian home. He also appreciated the history; the mansion on the property, the ruins of which remain, was designed by Jefferson for James Barbour, a governor of Virginia in the early 19th century.
Surrounded by cattle and horse farms, Barboursville was an aberration. It was only the fifth winery in the state. Gabriele Rausse, who made the first wines at Barboursville, recalls explaining to a skeptical state agriculture official that there was something to the budding wine industry. Instead of encouragement, the official pulled out a box of cigars and said, ''The future of Virginia is tobacco, not wine.''
The first year, Barboursville produced just three bottles of cabernet sauvignon. After Mr. Rausse, Barboursville had a series of winemakers who produced serviceable wine, drinkable but hardly noteworthy. In 1990, Mr. Zonin recruited Mr. Paschina to take over the operations. The first year was tough, with a frost in the spring and a rainy fall.
''It was a good vintage for asparagus,'' Mr. Paschina said. But the Zonin family, which still owns the winery, was patient, plowing money into the business for another nine years before it was self-supporting. ''From the beginning, there was an understanding to establish a wine region,'' Mr. Paschina said. ''It happened slowly. We only grow grapes once a year.''
A THIRD-GENERATION winemaker, Mr. Paschina was born in Piemonte, a storied wine region known for producing Barolo and Barbaresco. As a child, he played in vineyards, having grape fights with friends. At 14, he made wine in his backyard, an Italian red called brachetto.
After studying winemaking and viticulture, he was an intern at vineyards in the Napa Valley and the Finger Lakes. Later, he moved back to Italy, spending two years growing grapes and another two in sales and marketing. But the sales job, which included selling nonalcoholic wine in Saudi Arabia, wasn't satisfying. ''That reached the bottom for me,'' Mr. Paschina said. ''It wasn't my passion.''
When he arrived at Barboursville in 1990, winemaking was a tiny industry in Virginia and many winemakers knew one another by name. They met regularly to share techniques. They also worked closely with professors at Virginia Tech to develop scientific research on soil characteristics and pests.
The collaborative approach was vital. Wine regions tend to be painted with the same broad strokes. So raising the quality of the individual wines can help elevate the entire area.
''In Italy, you respect your competition, but you don't want to help,'' Mr. Paschina said. ''Here in Virginia, we still have a lot of room to grow. The more good wine, the better it is for all of us.''
His standards are exacting. In 2011, much of the Eastern Seaboard was hit by storms in late summer and early fall, the crucial part of the growing season. The rain diluted the amount of sugar and flavor in the grapes. So he and his team had to pick them early, when they had less color and harsher tannin, the natural compound that helps gives wine its texture. Because the grapes weren't up to par, Barboursville didn't make its premium Bordeaux blend, Octagon, or its cabernet sauvignon reserve, which require extensive aging in oak barrels. With many of the reds that year, Mr. Paschina largely used stainless steel to help retain the grapes' fruity, fresh flavors.
At the beginning, ''you could sell almost anything,'' he said. ''If a very bad vintage comes now, it's harder. Consumers have a higher expectation of quality.''
Such expectations, of course, are what he aims to cultivate.
AT the Virginia Wine Expo in February, hundreds of oenophiles, enthusiasts and revelers explored stands filled with wine, food and tchotchkes like stemware accessories styled with feather boas. As a group of young women wedged their way to the front of the Barboursville booth, a glass shattered in the distance and the exuberant crowd erupted in applause and catcalls. Mr. Paschina winced, almost imperceptibly.
While he does not favor a frat-like atmosphere for showing off his wine, he cheerfully went back to pouring samples. When one woman started to clean her glass with water, Mr. Paschina encouraged her to use red wine instead, so the next pour wouldn't be watered down.
Mr. Paschina wants to elevate appreciation and understanding. It's part of his long-running effort to change the perception of Virginia wine. Twelve years ago, he wrote a letter to Henry Bishop, the sommelier at Spiaggia, a top Italian restaurant in Chicago. ''I thought, 'That's the type of people I want to taste my wine,' '' Mr. Paschina said. A few weeks later, Mr. Bishop drove his jeep to Barboursville and picked up 20 cases of nebbiolo, barbera and pinot grigio.
Outreach is still just as important. Four or five times a year, Mr. Paschina goes to New York or other major cities to meet with wine buyers and sommeliers. Typically, Virginia wine is referred to as a ''hand sale.'' That is, shop owners or sommeliers need to push Virginia wine, since consumers rarely ask for it unprompted.
Such challenges are common for winemakers across the state, as they look beyond its borders. At RdV, the owner, Rutger de Vink, a former Marine who lives in an Airstream on his vineyard, avoids the public tasting room and other tourist trappings that have become de rigueur elsewhere. Visitors need an appointment, and Mr. de Vink, instead of offering the typical samples, conducts a highly choreographed blind tasting, in which he pits RdV wines against reds from the Napa Valley and Bordeaux.
''The majority of the industry is still making tourism wine,'' said Mr. de Vink, who trained under Mr. Law at Linden Vineyards before branching out on his own. ''I sell an experience.'' RdV's two wines, Lost Mountain and Rendezvous, are among the state's most expensive, with the 2009 vintage selling for $88 and $75, respectively. Mr. de Vink sold all 1,000 cases.
With a product that dates from biblical times, Mr. Paschina understands that perceptions evolve slowly. But the changes have been noticeable. ''In the 1990s, people said: 'Virginia wines are not very good. They're overpriced,' '' he said. ''Today, it's the opposite. The perception has dramatically changed, and the consumer has changed. They're more knowledgeable.''
In the Cobble Hill and Carroll Gardens neighborhoods of Brooklyn, Barboursville has unexpectedly developed a small following. It started with Robert Newton, chef and co-owner of Seersucker, a Southern-style restaurant. Mr. Newton, a self-described wine geek who grew up in Arkansas, visited Barboursville in 2008. When he opened Seersucker two years later, he knew he wanted Barboursville on his all-American wine list.
Last fall, several Seersucker customers started asking for Barboursville at their local wine store, the Brooklyn Wine Exchange. Timothy Farrell, the store's wine buyer, became curious and picked up two cases each of Barboursville nebbiolo and viognier. ''When I tell people to buy it, they feel like a trendsetter, which is important in Brooklyn.''
After a long day of visits in New York, Mr. Paschina ended at the Brooklyn Wine Exchange for a tasting with Mr. Farrell. The two started an animated discussion about climate, soil and tasting notes. ''It's riper than the cabernet franc in Long Island -- in a good way,'' said Mr. Farrell, referring to the Barboursville cabernet franc reserve. Mr. Paschina explained that the grapes had good sun exposure, diminishing the compound that results in a green pepper aroma.
When the store's co-owner walked in, Mr. Farrell introduced his guest. ''This is Luca, the maker of the most fascinating nebbiolo we've ever tasted.''
Mr. Paschina smiled. Then, without losing a beat, he went back to showing off the wine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Barboursville Vineyards in central Virginia. In seeking world-class status for its wines, Luca Paschina, below, knows he will be more successful if Virginia is seen as a world-class wine district. (BU1)
The Virginia Wine Expo in Richmond. The state's winemakers attend many such festivals and tastings every year, and work with state officials on local and international marketing.
Scenes from a vineyard: Luca Paschina, the Barboursville winemaker, top, checked vines as Jose Garcia, above right, stabilized wires. Inside, Daniele Tessaro, center left, took samples for a trial blend, and the winery's awards adorned bottles. (BU4)
Jason Tesauro, above left, poured Octagon, a high-end wine from Barboursville, at the Virginia Wine Expo, where Kathryn Vest, top left, and Kelly Shaw were among the attendees. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) MAPS: The New Wine Country: Prohibition ended in 1933, but the wine industry took decades to recover, as local laws and consumer preferences limited growth. In recent years, many states have embraced vineyards and wineries in an effort to bolster tourism and agriculture. ''They see wine as a high-ticket crop,'' said Linda Murphy, co-author of ''American Wine.'' (Sources: Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau
''American Wine''
''Beyond Jefferson's Vines''
Frank, Rimerman + Co.
Full Glass Research
Michigan Grape and Wine Industry Council
New York Wine and Grape Foundation
Oregon Wine Board
Stonebridge Research
Texas Wine and Grape Growers Association
Virginia Wine Board Marketing Office
 Wine Institute) (BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINERIES (90%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (90%); WINE (90%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SALES & SELLING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LAKES (72%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); WRITERS (60%)

COMPANY: MURPHY CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY ALCOHOL & TOBACCO TAX & TRADE BUREAU (59%); WINE INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS321212 SOFTWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC2436 SOFTWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (97%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



183 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: Gone Girls

BYLINE: By MIMI SWARTZ. 
Mimi Swartz is an executive editor of Texas Monthly and the co-author of ''Power Failure,'' about the collapse of Enron.

 BODY:
LOST GIRLSAn Unsolved American Mystery
By Robert Kolker399 pp. Harper. $25.99.
In mid-December 2010, the Suffolk County police discovered the bodies of four women, each wrapped in burlap, on a desolate, bramble-covered stretch of sand called Gilgo Beach. The corpses were later identified as those of four prostitutes, Melissa Barthelemy, Megan Waterman, Maureen Brainard-Barnes and Amber Lynn Overstreet Costello. The work was believed to be that of a serial killer, and for several months to come, the media circus that accompanied the official investigation -- centering on the search for another prostitute, Shannan Gilbert, who had disappeared after a nearby assignation the previous May -- kept much of the New York area and the nation entranced. It was a gothic whodunit for the Internet age, replete with prostitutes, drugs, family dysfunction, investigative incompetence, not to mention a strange, insular beach community and, of course, the Web sites of Craigslist and Backpage, where the women had advertised for customers. Robert Kolker, who wrote about the murders for New York magazine in 2011, has produced in ''Lost Girls'' a compelling, nearly unputdownable narrative of the case and its attendant issues; a horrific, cautionary tale that makes for a very different type of beach read. 
''Lost Girls'' is really two books in one. The subtitle confronts the central problem of the book head on, by admitting that ''Lost Girls'' is an ''unsolved American mystery.'' Kolker's solution is to make the story not just about a series of murders but about prostitution today, its causes, its dangers -- surely the police would have done more to investigate the murders if the burlap-wrapped bodies had been those of corporate lawyers or stay-at-home moms -- and the toxic effects not just on women who sell their bodies but on those closest to them. ''Lost Girls'' is a nuanced but convincing response to the persistent saw that prostitution is a ''victimless'' crime.
The first half of the book traces the paths of the five women who would meet their lonely ends amid the poison-ivy and sea-grass-choked marshes not far from the small Long Island community of Oak Beach, a place that bears no relation to the glamour of, say, the Hamptons. Here, Kolker expertly chronicles the sad cycle of poor, uneducated white women faced with lots of kids and few resources, particularly those born into declining East Coast towns where the best jobs were at places like McDonald's. It is that economic collapse, and the not-so-coincidental collapse of these families, that suggest at least a partial cause of prostitution today: single moms who couldn't get through high school, and who didn't have a clue how to raise the children born to them before they were out of their teens. It isn't at all surprising that the daughters of these women repeated the pattern, and when they couldn't support their own children economically or emotionally, or couldn't control their own drug habits or undiagnosed behavioral disorders, they found fast money and solace with a click of their computer keys, signing themselves up as independent sex contractors on Craigslist.
Kolker works hard to distinguish his main characters, but their histories bleed together in one long chronicle of childhood abuse, neglect and sorry choices. Maureen Brainard-Barnes, whose mother was a motel maid and a casino slot attendant, found herself pregnant at 16; she was a high school dropout and romantic drifter whose dreams of becoming a songwriter devolved into life as an escort. ''On Craigslist, Maureen saw women posting ads right in Groton, earning a living without leaving their homes, and not having to share what they made with anyone -- not a pimp, not a service, not a boyfriend,'' Kolker writes. Melissa Barthelemy, who hoped for a career as a hairdresser, had been born to a teenage mom and spent most of her time in her grandparents' care, dropped out of high school and had a few brushes with the law. A teacher at a Friends school less than helpfully told her, ''You don't belong here.'' Still, Barthelemy almost had her life together -- she managed to return to and finish high school -- when she left her hometown, Buffalo, with a mysterious man who promised her a job in Manhattan cutting hair.
Megan Waterman's mother lost custody of her when she was a baby, and like Barthelemy, Waterman was brought up by her grandmother. She was a born daredevil, a practiced shoplifter and heavy drinker in her teens, doing stints in juvenile hall and rehab, and soon after had a daughter of her own, making her desperate to avoid the legacy of her mother and grandmother. Amber Overstreet (later Costello) came from a family where addiction was a way of life; raped as a child, she acted out sexually in adolescence, selling herself to neighborhood boys by the time she was 16. She was helped along in her chosen profession by her much admired older sister, Kim, who led her into a life of prostitution and drug addiction.
Finally, there was Shannan Gilbert, who, as a child, had a gift for the stage, a beautiful singing voice in particular, but a mother who was unlucky with men and could never make ends meet with jobs at places like Sears and Dunkin' Donuts. Labeling Shannan a difficult child (who would eventually get a bipolar diagnosis, but went unmedicated), she farmed her daughter out to foster care while her sisters remained at home. ''Shannan's biggest problem -- maybe her only problem -- was that, from a young age, she felt locked out of her own family,'' Kolker writes. Like Barthelemy, Gilbert met a man who lured her to Manhattan with vague dreams of stardom. Instead, she wound up selling herself another way, and after racing away from both her driver and her client in a fit of inexplicable hysteria -- drugs? beatings? no one knows -- disappeared into the marsh near Oak Beach. It was the protracted search for Gilbert that finally led local authorities to the decomposed bodies of the other four women. Maureen Brainard-Barnes had been there since 2007.
The investigation, such as it was, of Gilbert's disappearance and death forms the narrative arc of the second half of the book, an investigation that for a time gave purpose to the victims' fractured families while providing seemingly infinite stories for the media. Kolker's propulsive narrative stalls just a little here, partly because of a problem beyond his control. Since the murders of all five women remain unsolved -- and it still isn't clear whether all were killed by the same person or persons -- he can only offer the reader some potential suspects while chronicling Suffolk County's shoddy police work and the effects of the media spotlight on families ill equipped to deal with so much attention.
Most of all, ''Lost Girls'' is, like so many stories today, a story about new technology transforming an old business. Companies like Craigslist and Backpage seemed to usher in a new era of ''entrepreneurial'' prostitutes, who could practice their trade with less risk of exposure and without pimps beating them out of their earnings. But that anonymity cut both ways, as the women, working alone without even the meager protection of pimps, found themselves at the mercy of anonymous johns. One study Kolker cites notes that in 2004 the leading cause of death among prostitutes was homicide, usually at the hands of their customers.
It was technology, too, that allowed the families of these dead women to unite on Facebook pages and, at least for a time, keep the story in front of the media, providing nearly endless fodder for the 24/7 news cycle -- until something else captured reporters' imaginations and the bodies found on Gilgo Beach were forgotten again.
Prostitution a victimless crime? ''Lost Girls'' proves, hauntingly, that it is anything but.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KRISTIAN HAMMERSTAD) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PROSTITUTION (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BEACHES (77%); HOMICIDE (76%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (73%); FAMILY (73%); LAWYERS (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



184 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1274 words

HEADLINE: Theirs for the Taking

BYLINE: By BENJAMIN WALLACE-WELLS. 
Benjamin Wallace-Wells is a staff writer at New York magazine.

 BODY:
THE SKIES BELONG TO USLove and Terror in the Golden Age of Hijacking
By Brendan I. KoernerIllustrated. 318 pp. Crown Publishers. $26.
On June 2, 1972, a few minutes before his flight from Los Angeles was scheduled to land in Seattle, a tall, skinny black man in an Army dress uniform walked up the aisle and handed the flight attendant an index card that said he was wired to bomb the plane. Like everything else about the man, his note seemed to veer between the meticulous and the insane. He had drawn a diagram of the bomb he said he was carrying in his briefcase; it was so credible the pilots concluded he had had training in explosives. But his note seemed the product of a manic mind: ''Success through Death,'' it read, and it said that he had accomplices in the cabin from the violent radical Weatherman group, and the not-violent radical group Students for a Democratic Society. The pilots decided to comply. They asked the man where he wanted to go. North Vietnam, he said. 
The man, whose name was Roger Holder, was not actually a member of the Weatherman, or of S.D.S. He was a traumatized, unemployed drifter, whose only accomplice was his 20-year-old girlfriend, Cathy Kerkow, who until a few days earlier had been working in a San Diego massage parlor. They were radicals only casually, with no obvious aptitude for terrorism: Holder consulted astrological charts to ease his mind during the hijacking, and when it turned out the plane lacked the capacity to fly across the Pacific, he chose a new destination -- Algiers, where the charismatic Black Panther Eldridge Cleaver had taken up residence.
And yet, despite their obvious limitations, this unlikely pair succeeded. In an era when skyjacking was shockingly common, they pulled off the longest-distance hijacking in American aviation history, and then, equally amazingly, stayed mostly ahead of the law ever since. Their adventure peaked when Holder became the director of the international branch of the Black Panther Party and Kerkow a French socialite.
This material, naturally a great yarn, is handled exceedingly well by the journalist Brendan I. Koerner, whose main interest, beyond the simple delight of the story, is in excavating the skyjacking epidemic from history -- an extended moment, from 1968 to 1972, when dozens of planes in the United States were taken over by hijackers, most of them professing political aims. These acts of violence had become so normal that air traffic controllers in Miami were given direct lines to Havana, where the planes were often being diverted. Koerner is particularly sharp in detailing the strange collision of forces that contributed to the epidemic -- psychologists, a powerful airline lobby that resisted government efforts to install more effective preflight security, a Vietnam-weary nation a little less sure than usual whether it sided with authority or the radicals.
But ''The Skies Belong to Us'' has a more urgent theme, though Koerner is less explicit about it: the often circumstantial nature of political violence. We tend to assume that terrorists are those who have made the most profound philosophical commitment to their cause and undergone the most extreme radicalization, like the glamorous Palestinian hijacker Leila Khaled or, currently, Tamerlan Tsarnaev. In Holder and Kerkow's story, the familiar late-'60s issues of the left are all there: racial alienation and separatism, the Vietnam debacle, feminism, even an allegiance to Angela Davis, the indicted black militant and Communist whose freedom Holder intended to bargain for with his hijacked plane. And yet Koerner's deft touch, his deference to the randomness of his characters' story, helps show that the commitments of Holder and Kerkow, and of many of the other radicals they met, were deeply felt but transitory, even momentary -- depots that they ghosted through.
Holder and Kerkow, young and broke and often happily stoned, were not obvious terrorists. She was a couple of years out of a small-town Oregon high school, and had moved to San Diego, which to her was ''a wonderland of sunny days and easy sex.'' He was a withdrawn, spacey Vietnam vet who had received an undesirable discharge and took solace in building elaborate model airplanes. The grievances Holder nursed against his superior officers escalated in the spring of 1972, when he became obsessed with Davis's conspiracy trial, which he perceived as a persecution. (It is thanks to Koerner's capacities as an investigator that we know this great detail: what really outraged Holder was not the politics of the trial but the prosecution's use of Davis's personal letters, which he viewed as a violation of her privacy.)
Having noticed the success of other skyjackings, Holder started drawing up plans to hijack a flight and demand that Davis be liberated and flown with him and Kerkow to Hanoi. (Holder and Kerkow's shared fantasy was that they would then migrate to Australia and live a hippie, outback existence.) The couple seemed almost surprised when the airline complied with their request for half a million dollars in cash, when the pilots politely ferried them across the Atlantic, when the skyjacking actually worked.
Viewed from the perspective of the present, what is most striking is how easy hijacking was at that time. Koerner believes this was largely because the airline industry had been lobbying for years to ward off more stringent security measures. A successful skyjacking tended to cost an airline only about $25,000, Koerner writes, and since violence was rare, both the industry and the Federal Aviation Administration believed it was easier and cheaper to endure periodic acts of inconvenience than to impose long security lines on passengers, which might reduce the number of paying customers. ''It would scare the pants off people,'' an F.A.A. official told a senator who, in 1968, proposed X-ray machines and metal detectors. The industry made some grudging concessions -- training their ticket sales personnel to single out potential hijackers by their behavior in line -- but they also stocked every pilot's cabin with maps of Cuba's José Martí International Airport and Spanish-language phrase cards. The instinct to cooperate with hijackers and resist law enforcement was so deeply ingrained that the pilot on Holder and Kerkow's flight turned away F.B.I. agents on the Kennedy Airport runway in New York because he feared they might instigate a firefight, and continued on his way to Algiers.
In Algeria, as Koerner describes them, Holder and Kerkow were 1960s romantics in a 1970s world. They smoked hashish and sunned on the beach, while Cleaver and his cronies -- hardly ideologues -- tried to pry away their ransom money. But the leftist president of Algeria, Houari Boumediene, recognized that they were party people, not the genuine article. After meeting them face to face, he promptly dismissed them, Koerner writes, having ''decided their fates based on a single glance.''
Rifts developed, not merely between the couple and the Panthers but between the couple themselves, though they managed to find asylum in France. Kerkow headed for a sexy radical-chic Parisian life and Holder for the depths of mental illness and institutionalization. Characters like these, in a less sympathetic writer's hands, could become avatars for the wildest impulses of the '60s. But Koerner has a rare empathy, and by acknowledging the fullness of their strange story, he suggests a deeper truth about the nature of extremism. For some, politics may be a logical process from outrage to radicalization. For others, like Holder and Kerkow, it is simply a disguise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charlton Heston in the 1972 film ''Skyjacked.'' (PHOTOGRAPH FROM METRO-GOLDWYN-MAYER , VIA EVERETT COLLECTION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); AIRLINES (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (76%); WRITERS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (72%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (87%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



185 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1242 words

HEADLINE: The Half-Trillion-Dollar Depression

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL. 
Catherine Rampell is an economics reporter for The Times. Adam Davidson is off this week.

 BODY:
There are plenty of days when Eliza can't manage to get herself out of the house. On others, she can't even get out of bed. And in between, she often can't sleep, can't concentrate and can't remember things. She definitely can't hold down a job. At least not right now.
Eliza, who asked that I not disclose her last name, successfully battled depression for most of her life. She persevered through college and graduate school and worked steadily for more than a decade as a pharmacist. Then, about two years ago, she suffered from an unusually debilitating stretch in which she didn't respond to antidepressants, and her insurance company refused to pay for experimental treatments that her doctors recommended. Now in her 40s, she has become one of the more than 1.4 million Americans on the federal disability rolls for mood disorders. She also receives Medicaid, food stamps and fuel assistance. ''I never wanted a handout,'' Eliza told me last month, adding that she has held on to her pharmacy license in the hope that her condition may yet improve. ''I would give anything to get out of this and go back to where I was before.'' 
Mental illness has been an increasingly significant health concern over the past several decades, but it's now becoming an economic one too. The number of Americans who receive Social Security Disability Insurance for mental disorders has doubled during the past 15 years. Eliza is now one of an estimated 11.5 million American adults with a debilitating mental illness, on whom the country spends about $150 billion annually on direct medical costs -- therapy, drugs, hospitalizations and so forth. But the biggest blow to the overall economy are the many hidden, indirect costs. People with serious mental illness earn, on average, $16,000 less than their mentally well counterparts, totaling about $193 billion annually in lost earnings, according to a 2008 study published in The American Journal of Psychiatry. And many mentally ill workers, who are more likely to miss work, also suffer from what social scientists call presenteeism -- the opposite of absenteeism -- in which they are very likely to be less productive on the job when they show up.
Reduced earnings and a lower likelihood of being, or staying, married compound the problem. The mentally ill are at higher risk of poverty than their peers, which subsequently increases their need for other public safety-net services like food stamps and subsidized housing. Their use of those services, according to one recent estimate, probably costs taxpayers another $140 billion to $160 billion a year. All together, our cumulative mental-health issues -- depression, schizophrenia and bipolar disorder, among others -- are costing the U.S. economy about a half-trillion dollars. That's more than the government spent on all of Medicare during the last fiscal year.
With a major expansion of health insurance slated to take effect next year under Obamacare, policy makers are obsessing over how to bring down such costs. But listening to Eliza talk about getting back to work, it was hard not to wonder whether the best way to cut the long-term costs associated with mental illness was, paradoxically, to spend more money on directly treating it now. Economists refer to this as the cost offset, and it's sort of like a return on an investment that comes from helping mentally ill people become more productive and less dependent on taxpayers.
There is evidence that suggests this might work. A study published in 2007 in The Journal of the American Medical Association, for example, enrolled depressed employees at 16 large companies in a randomized controlled trial. Some of them received telephone outreach, care management and optional psychotherapy, while others received their usual care. The employees in the ''enhanced care'' group not only worked longer weeks than those in the other group but also demonstrated greater job retention. Those increases in hours on the job brought companies an average annual value of $1,800 per worker, which was estimated to exceed the cost of both the outreach program and the roughly 10 additional mental-health specialty visits made by subjects in the treatment group. Another study conducted at 12 primary-care facilities found increased productivity and reduced absenteeism for patients who received enhanced treatment.
The question is whether those findings will apply on a much larger scale. Obamacare -- coupled with another recent law that forces insurers to cover behavioral-health care the same way they cover other medical care -- will significantly increase coverage for mental illness for about 62.5 million people. And there is one subtle way that this expansion of coverage could improve Americans' outcomes almost immediately. The recent Oregon Medicaid experiment, in which poor people received Medicaid coverage by lottery, found that having health coverage didn't necessarily improve outcomes for certain physical ailments, like diabetes, but it did reduce rates of depression by 30 percent, even though antidepressant use barely increased. The mere fact that people didn't have to worry about a costly medical emergency, researchers deduced, may have helped reduce rates of depression.
The main way expanded coverage would help people with mental illness, though, would be to get more of them into successful treatment. And Obamacare alone won't get that done. Even though tens of millions of people will get more coverage, estimates suggest that only 1.15 million new users will take advantage of mental-health services. A lot of people who will be extended coverage don't need care; others, fearful of the stigma around mental health, may not take it. What's more distressing, from both an economic and a social perspective, is that a lot of people who do muster the courage still won't get the right kind of treatment. About half of Americans who seek care for serious mental illnesses get treatment that does not help them or is not even recommended for their condition. Some, like Eliza, have illnesses that are resistant to first-line antidepressants. It took years before she could get her insurance company to foot the bill for an alternate treatment that her doctors said was medically necessary. By then she had already fallen into poverty.
One way to address the quality-of-care issue is to invest in more comparative-effectiveness research, which is a fancy term for pitting health care options head to head to see which works best for which patients and under what circumstances. Economists have long advocated this as a way to ensure we're spending our money more wisely, but the United States sponsors surprisingly little of it. There's a popular distaste for anything that smacks of government telling doctors or patients what to do. Also comparative-effectiveness research is ridiculously expensive. But just as it's important to think dispassionately about the costs and benefits of expanding mental-health-care insurance, it's also important to think dispassionately about what we spend our mental-health-care dollars on. If we want to realize the long-term economic and social benefits that come from helping people burdened by mental illness, we may have to endure some short-term economic pain.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. Mental illness is costing us hundreds of billions in obvious ways.
2. And hundreds of billions in less obvious ones.
3. We may need to spend money to save money.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEPRESSION (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); PSYCHIATRY (76%); MENTAL HEALTH (76%); DISABLED WORKERS (76%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (76%); BIPOLAR DISORDER (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); PHARMACISTS (75%); MEDICAID (74%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (74%); BEHAVIOR DISORDERS (74%); INSURANCE (74%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); EMPLOYEE ABSENTEEISM (70%); RESEARCH REPORTS (68%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2013



186 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4435 words

HEADLINE: Everman's War

BYLINE: By CLAY TARVER

 BODY:
I asked if he ever talked about it. Jason shook his head no. Did they find out anyway? ''Always.''
The first time was at Fort Benning in 1994, in the middle of the hell of basic training. The ex-cop recruits in boot camp with him said that prisoners had more freedom than they did. There were guys who faked suicide attempts to get out of basic. But Everman never had any doubts. ''I was 100 percent,'' he told me. ''If I wasn't, there was no way I'd get through it.''
He had three drill sergeants, two of whom were sadists. Thank God it was the easygoing one who saw it. He was reading a magazine, when he slowly looked up and stared at Everman. Then the sergeant walked over, pointing to a page in the magazine. ''Is this you?'' It was a photo of the biggest band in the world, Nirvana. Kurt Cobain had just killed himself, and this was a story about his suicide. Next to Cobain was the band's onetime second guitarist. A guy with long, strawberry blond curls. ''Is this you?''
Everman exhaled. ''Yes, Drill Sergeant.'' 
And that was only half of it. Jason Everman has the unique distinction of being the guy who was kicked out of Nirvana and Soundgarden, two rock bands that would sell roughly 100 million records combined. At 26, he wasn't just Pete Best, the guy the Beatles left behind. He was Pete Best twice.
Then again, he wasn't remotely. What Everman did afterward put him far outside the category of rock'n'roll footnote. He became an elite member of the U.S. Army Special Forces, one of those bearded guys riding around on horseback in Afghanistan fighting the Taliban.
I've known Jason Everman since we played rock shows together nearly 25 years ago. What happened to him was almost inexplicable, a cruel combination of good luck, bad luck and the kind of disappointment that would have overwhelmed me even at my most brashly defiant. After having not seen him since the early '90s, I ended up hanging out with him in his apartment in Brooklyn last summer. We had drinks, retraced steps. We once were in the same place in our lives. But mine had since quietly transitioned from rock to parenthood. My changes were glacial. His were violent.
None of it is easy for him to talk about. Jason is one of the most guarded people I have ever met. But when I pulled up to his remote A-frame cabin near Puget Sound last winter, there he was, a sturdy, tall figure in a Black Flag sweatshirt holding a glass of red wine. This was his private place, and he was letting me into it.
Books and action figures covered one wall. Guitars and drums were scattered on the floor. But the far wall almost looked like a memorial: medals, artifacts, war photos. I took it all in, asking about a hand-decorated gun on the fireplace. ''That's how the Taliban trick out their weapons,'' he said. Then I picked up his Army helmet. It seemed heavy to me. ''Dude, that's light,'' he said. ''That's state of the art.'' It had his blood type still written on the side: O positive.
The first time I met Everman was also the first time I ever stepped foot on a tour bus. It was 1989, which was a confusing time to be in a rock band. My band, Bullet LaVolta, had been on tour with the Seattle group we admired most, Mudhoney. They were role models to us. They didn't just have a sense of the punk-rock rules of the day; they pretty much set them. Just as it does now, the grown-up economy seemed to have little use for 20-somethings like us. The mainstream music business didn't, either. Our kind of punk rock was all about creating your own place, doing music for its own sake, usually the opposite of what was popular. If you wanted to ''make it,'' you played pandering cheese-metal like Warrant or Slaughter, the bands on MTV. They were bad. We were good. It was all so cut and dried.
The next-to-last show of our Mudhoney tour was in Chicago, where both bands were to open for Soundgarden at the Cabaret Metro, the biggest venue of the trip. Soundgarden was a much bigger deal in music circles than Nirvana at the time. As crazy as this may sound, Nirvana was a joke to all of us -- a generic grunge band with a terrible name. Soundgarden had signed a big contract with A&M Records. People in the music business believed it was the one band that would break through. We didn't know what to think. We were threatened, jealous, judgmental. As Dan Peters, Mudhoney's drummer, remembered: ''We were both showing up in vans, and they had a big old bus. It was weird.''
Soundgarden was the most professional rock operation I'd ever seen. They had a full crew, the full major-label push and 16 different T-shirts for sale. They also happened to be exceedingly nice, inviting us onto their bus. When the doors hissed open, we dropped silent in awe. It had a minifridge. A card table with a faux marble base. It had a bathroom.
We made it past the bunks to the lounge. And there he was: Soundgarden's bassist, Jason Everman. You couldn't look more ''rock dude'' than he did: all that hair, the dour expression. It was an imposing energy to encounter in tubular mood lighting. And he was the first person I ever met with a nose ring. At the time, I read it as a flashing sign that said, ''I will have unbearable attitude.'' But he didn't at all. In fact, he was smart and had a dry wit. He offered me Funyuns.
The rest of that night was just as confusing. We went on so early that people were still arriving as we finished. Mudhoney was great but sounded strange in a cavernous room. And Soundgarden left us mystified. They seemed to have their eyes on a bigger prize, one we couldn't see yet. As I watched Jason onstage -- his rock hair pounding -- it dawned on me: ''My God, these guys are going to be rock stars.''
Everman was born on a remote Alaskan island. ''My birth certificate says Kodiak, but I'm pretty sure it was Ouzinkie, where my parents lived in a two-room cabin with a pet ocelot named Kia.'' That odd precision is how he talks. He'll describe soldiers as ''freemen, who, of their own volition,'' are willing to ''lose everything'' or carefully explain the ''epistemological dilemma'' in Dr. Seuss's ''Horton Hears a Who!'' And yet his thoughts still tend to be underlined with a distinctive ''dude.'' His parents, Diane and Jerry, moved to Alaska to get back to nature, but the marriage didn't work out. Diane couldn't take the harsh life, and after a couple of years she left Jerry and started over. She took Jason to Washington and eventually married a former Navy man named Russ Sieber. They settled in the Poulsbo area, across Puget Sound from Seattle. Jason's mother never told him about the Alaska years. His half-sister, Mimi MacKay, with whom he grew up, said Jason didn't know his real father existed until he was 13 or so.
Poulsbo, back then, was right on the edge of suburban safety. Though Diane adored Jason, growing up in their house wasn't easy. ''My mother was extremely depressed, an artistic genius who was also a pill-popping alcoholic,'' Mimi told me. ''Jason and I learned to walk on eggshells and really learned to take care of ourselves.'' As a young boy, Jason went through a phase of stuttering. ''My mom joked that this is how she cured Jason, by telling him, 'Either spit it out or shut up,' '' Mimi said. ''I became really adept at finishing his sentences for him.''
Soon the silence evolved into acting out. He and a friend blew up a toilet with an M-80. What might have landed a kid in jail today only got him suspended for a week or two of junior high in the early '80s. Still, his grandmother Gigi was alarmed. Gigi Phillips was one of the people Jason was closest to. And she wasn't going to mess around with this kind of trouble. She got the best therapist she could find, who happened to be, Mimi was told, the sports psychiatrist to the Seattle SuperSonics.
In therapy, Everman just sat there. But the doctor happened to be a music freak and had a few vintage guitars around the office. Everman picked one up. The therapist started to strum with him, hoping this would open Jason up. ''It was a big family joke that those were the most expensive guitar lessons ever,'' Mimi told me. That's when Everman first started playing guitar.
Music changed everything for him, especially after he discovered punk rock. ''I'd have to say that was the first defining event in my life,'' he told me. ''In punk there's an extreme kind of conformity to all the nonconformity. You realize in all this rebellion that everyone's doing the same thing. But in a weird way, that's what kind of lets you eventually forget the rules, and you can be yourself.'' During high school, Everman spent much of his free time playing in bands. In the summer after his junior year, he started visiting his biological father in Alaska, where he spent several seasons working on his fishing boat. He graduated a semester early, and soon he had earned $20,000 and a reputation for being self-sufficient.
It was then that he got the kind of break you read about in paperback rock biographies. Jason's childhood friend Chad Channing happened to meet a guitarist and a bassist from Olympia looking for a drummer. They were Kurt Cobain and Krist Novoselic, and they called their band Nirvana. Channing played drums for many of their ramshackle early shows. When Cobain considered getting another guitar player, Channing piped up. ''I was like: 'I know this guy. This friend of mine, Jason.' ''
At first, Everman seemed to be the perfect fit. These were irreverent guys who had all set off bombs in their own way. Nirvana's gloominess is such a part of the band's mythology now, but Cobain was also wickedly funny. As Novoselic put it to me, ''We were fun-loving dudes.'' Onstage, Nirvana had entered a heavy phase, perfectly suited to Everman's rock vibes. Jonathan Poneman, co-founder of Sub Pop Records, the label that signed Nirvana, told me that Cobain introduced Everman as his ''surprise'' before a sound check in San Francisco. Poneman loved the new guy.
Everman also helped the band in another way. Nirvana owed money to the producer of their first album, ''Bleach,'' which they'd already recorded. ''Jason was very generous,'' Novoselic said. ''And he'd had a job. . . . So he had, like, bucks, O.K.? You know how it said it was recorded for like six hundred and something bucks on the back of the record? Jason paid for that.'' It was $606.17, which came out of Everman's fishing money. Sub Pop thought so much of him that it printed a limited-edition live poster of Jason rocking out.
But it was when the band hit the road -- piling into a cruddy van, as we all did -- that it came undone for Everman and Nirvana. A tour is tough for anyone to handle, especially the first one. The days are 23 hours of stultifying boredom -- all so you can have one hour onstage, one hour of visceral release that makes it worthwhile. Between the hangovers, the stink, the beaten-to-death inside jokes, touring can make anybody crazy. The key is to keep the van fun. The guy next to you may love you when you start, only to hate the way you keep asking him to turn the Stooges down 100 miles later. ''We had some great shows with Jason,'' Novoselic said. ''But then things went south really fast.'' Somewhere along the way, a cloud formed over Jason, an impenetrable inwardness that just hung there. They say he wouldn't talk to anyone, completely removing himself from the circle.
By the time they made it to New York, ''the fun stopped,'' Novoselic remembered. ''The fun stopped fast.'' Channing was confused by it, too, and he was one of Everman's oldest friends. ''He doesn't talk freely when things are bothering him,'' Channing said. It just seemed as if he didn't want to be there. Cobain and Novoselic wanted Everman out but didn't know how to do it. That's the inherent contradiction of punk-rock rules: you were supposed to hate careerism yet still have a career. And 20-year-old kids aren't particularly good at sorting that out. So Nirvana didn't actually fire Everman; the band canceled the rest of the tour and drove straight from New York to Washington State, 50 hours in silence. Hardly a word was spoken.
Even with more than 20 years of perspective, Everman still doesn't have a clear answer for what went wrong. ''To be honest, I never had any expectations about the gig,'' he told me. ''It just ended.'' In ''Come as You Are,'' the definitive book on Nirvana, by Michael Azerrad, Cobain dismissed Everman as a ''moody metalhead.'' Even worse, he boasted about not paying Everman back for ''Bleach,'' claiming it was payment for ''mental damages.'' In Nirvana -- a band with a lead singer so famously tortured that he would commit suicide -- Jason Everman was kicked out for being a head case.
The timing for what happened next was baffling. After years of playing every lousy gig they could, Soundgarden had A&M Records behind them, a tour bus waiting, a full slate of tour dates booked. But Soundgarden's bass player, Hiro Yamamoto, didn't want anything to do with it. Their road manager, Eric Johnson, told me: ''He really was just truly punk rock. There were meetings with A.&R. guys, and it was no longer dudes in a van. He was all like: 'Oh, no, no, no. This isn't for me.' '' In 1989, just as their first major-label album, ''Louder Than Love,'' was released, Yamamoto abruptly quit the band.
Everman had always liked Nirvana, but he loved Soundgarden. Playing bass for them -- on the verge of stardom as they were -- was the most-coveted gig in Seattle -- even one of Everman's old friends, Ben Shepherd, auditioned. Soundgarden, meanwhile, had called Jason right away. ''We knew things ended with Nirvana on less-than-ideal terms,'' Kim Thayil, their guitarist, told me. ''He didn't fit with Nirvana? Big deal. That's them. We're Soundgarden. We're a different animal.'' In the first audition, he impressed them all. ''Jason was the guy,'' Soundgarden's drummer, Matt Cameron, remembered. ''Jason came prepared.'' After the disaster with Nirvana, now Everman was playing bass for his favorite Seattle band. He couldn't believe his luck. As he put it to me, ''What were the chances of all that happening?''
The next year was a blur of touring throughout the United States and Europe. Only 22, Everman still felt behind. Everybody in the band was several years older than he was. ''I was drinking water from a fire hose,'' he said. ''But I thought this was it. This was going to be my identity.'' So did I. After that show in Chicago, Bullet LaVolta opened for Soundgarden for a month. And if I was initially judgmental about their ambitions, I realized it was more complicated after seeing it up close. There's pressure when you're supposed to be the next big thing. People believed it was going to work, too. In town after town, I watched bands fawn over Soundgarden, Everman included. He was who they all wanted to be.
When Soundgarden returned home, they called a band meeting. Jason showed up on Cameron's porch thinking it was about the next record. Thayil told me, ''I thought I would be diplomatic . . . and wasn't getting to the point.'' He said Chris Cornell, Soundgarden's singer, finally cut to the chase: It wasn't working out, Cornell said. Thayil remembers thinking: We're not behaving like a band. I'm not happy. No one here is happy. No one's talking to each other. Just like that, Everman was fired again.
When I heard the news, it made me worry for him. He'd been kicked out of a band with a bright future for a second time. There had to be a reason. Cameron kept wanting to say: ''Hey, why so moody? You're in a good band.'' Johnson, the road manager, couldn't figure it out: ''He was funny and witty, and then a cloud would come over him. He would sit in the bus and be really mad with his headphones on all the time. I felt bad for the guy, and I feel even worse now, thinking about somehow he was suffering and nobody really knew how to address that.''
I don't know how he got through the next year. Everman's friend from home, Ben Shepherd, replaced him in Soundgarden. Their next album went double platinum. Of course, Nirvana -- after replacing Jason's friend Chad Channing on drums with Dave Grohl -- became the biggest band in the world. That record he never got paid back for, ''Bleach,'' eventually sold 2.1 million copies. ''Nevermind'' sold nearly 30 million copies worldwide and changed the course of rock. Everman, meanwhile, was left behind with no idea what to do next.
For the first month, he just went fetal. ''It was a huge blow,'' he admitted to me quietly. ''I had no warning. The only good thing about it was it made me leave the Pacific Northwest. I would never have done that otherwise.'' He moved to New York and got a job working for a while in the Caroline Records warehouse, a long way from the tour bus.
Jason played with other bands, eventually joining one called Mindfunk. He actually had success with it, moving with the band to San Francisco, but something was still not right. Then in the midst of all the confusion in his life, he came to the realization that he had to make a change. He knew he didn't just want to be a guy in his 15th band, the guy talking about his time in Nirvana and Soundgarden 20 years later. He wanted to do something, he said, something impossible. ''I was in the cool bands,'' he told me in the cabin. ''I was psyched to do the most uncool thing you could possibly do.''
So in 1993, while living in a group house in San Francisco with the guys in Mindfunk, Everman slipped out to meet with recruiters; the Army offered a fast track to becoming a Ranger and perhaps eventually to the Special Forces. He told me he always had an interest in it. His stepfather was in the Navy; both grandfathers were ex-military. Most of the people he grew up with scoffed at that world, which was part of the appeal to him. Novoselic remembered something Everman said way back in the Olympia days. ''He was just pondering. He asked me, 'Do you ever think about what it'd be like to be in the military and go through that experience?' And I was just like . . . no.''
Everman started waking up early while his bandmates slept in; he went biking, swimming, got in shape. One day, with zero warning, he resigned. He put all of his stuff in storage. He took a flight to New York and went to an Army recruiting office in Manhattan. A couple of weeks later he was on a flight to Georgia. ''Was I nervous?'' he asked. ''I was a little nervous. But I knew.''
When he arrived for basic training at Fort Benning, his hair was cut, his nose ring was removed; he was as anonymous as every other recruit. At 26, he wasn't an old-timer, but he was close to it. Training had been going on for about a month when Cobain committed suicide and Everman's rock past was discovered, which gave more ammunition to the drill sergeants. There was a lot of ''O.K., rock star, give me 50.'' Everman insists he didn't expect anything else.
A fellow soldier named Sean Walker told me that Ranger instructors begin by asking recruits to quit now to save time. ''You had to pass a 12-mile road march in three hours or less,'' Walker said, ''run 5 miles in 40 minutes or less, complete the combat-swimmers test, as well as other evils the cadre decided to throw at you.'' Half the recruits quit. But Everman refused to let himself be left behind this time. He completed every last requirement.
After Fort Benning, Everman was assigned to Fort Lewis, in Washington, 60 miles from where he grew up in Poulsbo. Everman's Army buddies I spoke with said he never mentioned his past to anyone there either. Still, word got out. Walker thought the rumor of Everman being a rock star was a joke until someone showed him a VHS tape. ''I had to watch the segment a few times just to make sure I was seeing correctly,'' Walker said in an e-mail. ''But it was Jason Everman playing some huge concert. I was wondering what the hell Jason was doing joining the Army when he was living the life most people could only dream about.'' And he was doing it all less than an hour from Seattle's Memorial Stadium, where Soundgarden was now playing.
During one of his first visits into Seattle, Everman happened to spot a familiar beat-up red van -- it belonged to Kim Thayil from Soundgarden. Thayil saw Everman's car tailing him, heard the honking but didn't know who it was. ''I wasn't going to go home, that's for sure,'' Thayil said. He finally pulled over, and a guy with short hair got out of the car, saying, ''Hey, Kim!'' Thayil took him at first to be a superfan. ''And then I heard: 'It's me. Jason.' '' He was floored. They hung out, had a few beers. At night's end, Everman went back to the base.
Everman's first action as a Ranger was somewhere in Latin America, he said, an operation in the covert war on drugs, about which he declined to give details. Despite all the training, nobody knows for sure how he'll react to the stress of combat. ''The bond of locking shields with each other, working together to defeat a common enemy,'' Everman told me in his typically formal manner, ''it's a heightened state.'' It was kind of like being in a band onstage, he said, only more so. ''Everyone looks around and you know -- you know -- something cool is going on here. I knew this was it. This is living.''
He served out his first enlistment as a Ranger. ''But I felt like I wasn't finished with something.'' He still wanted to make Special Forces, which to Everman was the ultimate achievement. It's a different world. They operate as a group of equals. They call one another by their first names. They engage in a wider spectrum of operations than less-elite units.
On Sept. 11, 2001, Everman was starting the last phase of Special Forces training. It was the first day of language school, and he was watching CNN in the common room with some buddies. ''I saw the video of the plane impacting the tower and kind of innately knew we were going to war,'' he said. ''I don't believe in fate or destiny, but I did feel a strange sense of kismet, which was probably more of just the right place at the right time. I guess I knew it was on, and I hoped that I would be prepared when it was time to go.''
He told me about riding horseback with the Pashtun, helicoptering in for midnight raids, sitting at a base for days at a time with absolutely nothing to do. Everman saw Soviet tanks rusting in the Panjshir Valley. He smelled the poppy fields outside of Kandahar. He encountered suicide bombers. Yet he always made a point to say fighting often isn't what you think. ''It's not like the movies,'' he stressed. ''It's slow, deliberate.''
Between Afghanistan deployments, Everman went to Iraq, and that, at times, was like a movie. He was in the front row of one of the biggest conventional military operations since World War II, with helicopters hovering on either side of his vehicle, ''the full might of the U.S. forces,'' as he puts it, in the column behind him. As he shot grenades from a Humvee, he recounted, ''Iraqi tanks were exploding all around, turrets shooting off into the desert. I saw stuff I never thought I'd see. Buildings blew up in front of me, dude.'' At one point, he came across a pile of Iraqi Army boots, hundreds of them. ''Guys would just strip off everything they had on that said they were army and split.''
I wanted to know every detail, but he wouldn't say much. Or couldn't. There's a code among Special Forces: they don't talk about what they do. I actually think this was part of the appeal for Everman. After having such a public rock face, he went for something that wasn't just anonymous; it was classified. Mimi once met a couple of Special Forces guys who idolized Jason. ''They didn't approach like the usual fanboys who asked, 'Your brother was in Nirvana?' '' she said. ''No, they came to me like: 'Jason Everman is your brother?' '' One turned to the other and said, ''Dude, do you know what that guy's done?''
In the war, Everman seemed to have found his place. The cloud didn't go anywhere; it just didn't matter anymore. As one of his Special Forces colleagues (who is still on active duty and requested that his name not be published) told me: ''He would get moody sometimes, but it didn't interfere with the task at hand. I would rather work with somebody who is quiet than ran their suck constantly.'' In Everman's cabin, I saw medal after medal, including the coveted Combat Infantryman Badge. ''Sounds kind of Boy Scouty,'' he said. ''But it's actually something cool.'' I saw photos of Everman in fatigues on a warship (''an antipiracy operation in Asia''). A shot of Everman with Donald Rumsfeld. Another with Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal. And that's when it hit me. Jason Everman had finally become a rock star.
''The way I look at it, life is meaningless,'' Everman said the last time I saw him. ''The meaningfulness is what you impart to it.'' The words sounded an awful lot like those of a philosophy undergrad, which is the latest iteration of Jason Everman's life. He was talking about Jack Kerouac; he had to reread ''On the Road'' for one of his classes. We were standing in front of Butler Library on the Columbia University campus in New York. Everman looked rested and content, a backpack over his shoulder. After he left the military in 2006, he used the G.I. Bill to apply to two places: Seattle University and Columbia University. He says he threw Columbia in almost as a joke. General McChrystal wrote a letter of recommendation. To Everman's shock, he was accepted. ''It's almost like a dare that went too far -- and it keeps going.'' At 45, he just received his bachelor's degree in philosophy.
As we walked past all the oblivious college students, their whole lives ahead of them, I thought about how astonishingly few people do what Everman did. What happened to him was so brutal, seeing success pass him by -- twice. But he didn't let that misfortune define him. Of all the guys I knew through my years in rock, a precious few made it huge. Good for them. Most never came close. Some never managed to get past the failure of the dream, but it seems pretty clear that Everman did. When I told his former bandmates what he'd been up to, they all seemed genuinely thrilled with what he did with his life -- and surely a little relieved.
As we made our way along what Columbia calls College Walk, I asked Everman what it was like to be a student after all he had been through. Everman smiled dryly. ''It's anonymous. Just the way I like it.'' I suggested that his unique résumé might make him just about the coolest college professor of all time. ''No way, man,'' he said, shaking his head. ''I don't have the patience. I'll probably just be a bartender somewhere.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY IAN ALLEN) (MM36)
In July 1989, Jason Everman was a member of Nirvana. By September, he was in Soundgarden. By the next year, he was with neither. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY IAN TILTON
JOE GIRON/CORBIS) (MM38
MM39)
 Everman likens his experiences with the Army Rangers and Special Forces to those of being in a band. ''It's a heightened state,'' he says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON EVERMAN) (MM40-MM41) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY TRAINING (89%); POP & ROCK (87%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (87%); ARMIES (78%); SUICIDE (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (67%); TALIBAN (62%); ARMED FORCES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (51%) AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



187 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 6800 words

HEADLINE: How to Win in Washington

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
Kurt Bardella is not a guy you can easily root for. He activates your radar and not in a good way. He laughs too much and too loud. He hangs out in cigar bars. When he talks with you, you suspect you are being worked.
I liked him instantly.
By that I mean Bardella gave me a headache, but I liked that he flouted the norms of the smooth Washington hustler. In a city where even the most rabid striving must be cloaked in nonchalance, Bardella never pulled this off or even tried. He was not shy about sharing -- on his Facebook page -- his ultimate ambition: to become the White House press secretary. He was not reticent in acknowledging a danger of his brash style: ''I'm never that far away from blowing myself up completely,'' he told me once. ''It's all part and parcel of my inferiority complex.'' But generally, Bardella added, he was pretty good about channeling his demons in a way that benefited his boss, Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California. 
Bardella evinced a desperation that made him more honest than people in Washington typically are. Or maybe ''transparent'' is a better word, because he did seem to lie sometimes (or ''spin'' sometimes), at least to me. Even as he stuck out among earnest Hill deputies, something about Bardella wonderfully embodied the place. It's not that Washington hasn't forever been populated by high-reaching fireballs. But an economic and information boom in recent years has transformed the city in ways that go well beyond the standard profile of dysfunction. To say that today's Washington is too partisan and out of touch is to miss a much more important truth -- that rather than being hopelessly divided, it is hopelessly interconnected. It misses the degree to which New Media has both democratized the political conversation and accentuated Washington's myopic, self-loving tendencies. And it misses, most of all, how an operator like Kurt Bardella can land in a culture of beautifully busy people and, by trading on all the self-interest and egomania that knows no political affiliation, rewrite the story of his own life.
I first met Bardella in May 2010, when he was really starting to make a name for himself. If Republicans won the majority in the House that November, Issa would become chairman of the powerful House Oversight and Government Reform Committee. Good for Issa, and by the first law of Washington career gravity, good for Bardella.
The first surprise upon meeting Bardella was his appearance. His Italian name and blustery phone comportment suggested something other than a rail-thin 27-year-old Asian-American in pinstriped suit and tie and matching hanky in the breast pocket. He looked like a teenager playing grown-up.
Something about Bardella cried out for mothering, or fathering, which I suspected might be true even if each of his three fathers (one birth, one adopted, one step-) had not abandoned or alienated him on the way up. He said that the displacement of his youth, his lack of a college degree and his entry into the political work force at a very young age (17) engendered in him a fear that he had no business running with these bulls. So he was a jittery wreck, working long into the night, in the service of pleasing Darrell Issa, or else.
You hear the formulations ''He's like a father to me'' and ''He's like a son to me'' quite a bit in Washington. Politicians like to self-mythologize through their fathers: John Edwards was ''the son of a millworker,'' John Boehner ''the son of a barkeeper'' and so on. ''Every man is trying to either live up to his father's expectations or make up for his father's mistakes,'' Barack Obama wrote. The dad thing makes a tidy device for any politician's story, but the prevailing social dynamic of Washington so often does mimic the quest for paternal love. It is, in many ways, a city of patrons and protégés. ''Who do you work for?'' is often the first thing people ask here.
But when Bardella said, ''Darrell is like a dad to me,'' he sounded genuine. ''Darrell cares,'' he'd say. ''He fills a certain void.''
Shortly after he was born, Bardella was abandoned at the door of a church in Seoul, South Korea. He was placed in an orphanage, where he hated to be set down in his crib. At 3 months he was adopted by a childless couple in Rochester. His new mother, Diane Bardella, was pursuing a degree in literature at the University of Rochester, while her husband, Alfred, worked as a security guard. They named the baby Kurt and divorced when he was 3.
Kurt lived with his mother and spent every other weekend with his father. He was enrolled in a Catholic school, where he was bullied and teased because he ''looked Chinese.'' Diane Bardella remarried when Kurt was 5 and gave birth to two sons. Kurt would taunt his new brothers by telling them, ''You were had, I was chosen.'' When Kurt was 10, the family moved west, separating him from Alfred. Bardella eventually became estranged from his stepfather after he and Kurt's mother divorced.
After graduating from high school in 2001, Bardella took a summer internship with a Republican state legislator, who offered him a job. He jumped at the chance, envisioning a political life as presented in the speedy chess game of NBC's ''West Wing,'' which fascinated him. The lure was enough for Bardella to blow off college and spend two years doing clerical work in the legislator's office and attending meetings, dinners and events around town. He eventually took a job as an assignment editor for the local CBS affiliate, but his path to Washington presented itself in 2005, when the San Diego-area congressman Randy (Duke) Cunningham -- best known in D.C. for flipping off a constituent, referring to gays as ''homos'' on the House floor and suggesting the Democratic leadership ''be lined up and shot'' -- got hit with a sack of white-collar-criminal charges (conspiracy to commit bribery, mail fraud, wire fraud, tax evasion). The Duke headed off to jail, and Bardella headed back into politics, working on the campaign of the Republican Brian Bilbray in the special election to fill Cunningham's seat. Bilbray won, and in July 2006, Bardella arrived in Washington.
Bardella was never going to be one of those civic-minded idealists who descend on the capital every year to ''make a difference.'' When I first met him, he admitted that he was not much of a true believer in any political cause. The Republicans simply found him first. He told me that he was not so much an ''R'' or a ''D'' as he was an ''O'' -- ''an opportunist.'' His passions were ignited less by an inspirational candidate or officeholder -- there were no posters of Ronald Reagan or J.F.K. -- than they were by celebrity operatives on TV, fictional (Josh Lyman) or real (James Carville). They were the players in a thrilling screen game, and Bardella wanted in.
''When I first came here,'' he told me, ''I was standing on the streetcorner with my suitcase, thinking: There's no way I belong here. This is crazy. I'm going to get eaten alive.''
As a teenager, Bardella read the memoir of the celebrated Clinton aide turned TV star, George Stephanopoulos, ''All Too Human: A Political Education.'' What struck Bardella was Stephanopoulos's description of his years as an altar boy in the Greek Orthodox church he attended in Rye, N.Y. It excited him, Stephanopoulos wrote, to be within the sanctum, an excitement he compared with the thrill he felt later as a political operative who penetrated the privileged circle where decisions are made.
''There is that place to get in Washington that everybody is striving for,'' Bardella told me. ''Once you get to that place, that inside place, you kind of just know it. It's exciting,'' he said. ''But you're never sure if that feeling is going to last, or if other people are seeing you as someone on the inside. It puts you on edge, constantly.''
As a 22-year-old flack for Bilbray, Bardella sent Stephanopoulos a fan note. He wrote about how much he enjoyed ''All Too Human'' and how much he admired Stephanopoulos. Stephanopoulos wrote back and invited Bardella to drop by next time he was in the neighborhood of ABC News's Washington bureau near Dupont Circle. Bardella made a point of being in that neighborhood soon after.
A year later, Bardella was surprised to receive a call from Stephanopoulos, who wanted to know if a certain resolution on immigration was going to pass the House Republican Conference. Bardella told Stephanopoulos that he believed it would pass, which Stephanopoulos said on TV a few hours later, citing ''Congressional sources.'' Bardella was a ''Congressional source''! He described the experience to me as his ''first time playing with live ammunition.''
He later called Stephanopoulos, seeking career advice. He was thinking about taking a job in the Senate office of Olympia Snowe, Republican of Maine, and he asked Stephanopoulos what he thought, a query that also carried the unspoken message that Bardella was being sought after, that he was ''in play.''
In December 2007, Bardella did indeed jump to Snowe's office, but he lasted less than a year. He found the Senate boring, he said -- too plodding, too gentlemanly, not his thing -- and he returned to Bilbray's office and identified Darrell Issa as his next big game.
Issa happened to be one of the wealthiest men in Congress, thanks to his magnificently successful car-alarm company. Bardella appreciated that, and he admired -- perhaps because he identified with it -- Issa's willingness, even compulsion, to toot his own car horn. While Congress had no shortage of members who thought of themselves as the smartest guy in the room, Issa might have had a legitimate claim. He holds 35 patents, 16 of which hang on his office wall.
Issa's office was down the hall from Bilbray's, and Bardella began to camp out there, befriending Issa's staff and pestering them until they hired him as press secretary.
Issa made clear that he very much wanted to become better known among the political-media cabal, and Bardella took on the obsession as his own. ''I am completely focused on making Darrell a household name,'' he told me. Before long, Issa was living in greenrooms, a heightened profile he owed largely to Bardella, who was simultaneously at work -- a little too intensely -- on getting himself noticed. He had what for a staff member was a dangerous knack for getting his name into print, and an even more dangerous craving for more. There's a fundamental rule on Capitol Hill that aides should stay in the background, but Bardella was too eager to show off how plugged in he was at all times not to violate it.
The emergence of Politico as Washington's company-town organ -- and especially Playbook, its insider's tip sheet sent out each morning by Mike Allen, D.C.'s electronic town crier -- served Bardella's needs well. Politico wasn't just a receptive outlet for the pro-Issa stories he was trying to ''place''; it was also generous in bestowing a kind of fame on the traditionally innocuous staffer. In an October 2009 Politico story about whether excessive BlackBerry use could be a drag on a staffer's personal life, Bardella was quoted as saying he always apologizes to dates in advance ''because I know I'm going to check my Berry at least eight times in the next 25 minutes.''
Politico was exhaustive in covering the workaholic regimen of the city's aspiring Josh Lymans, whose stressed TV countenance has been copied and exaggerated as a D.C. pose. They are often crude and fluent in the cutting, sardonic tones characteristic of many of the young operators around town. Politico wrote a trend piece about this (''Washington Soaks Up the Snarkiness''), in which Bardella declared that Washington ''is a city that has been built on false premises and false pretenses.''
In 2009 he was named one of the ''50 politicos to watch.'' ''It is only 11:30 a.m., but Kurt Bardella is on his third Red Bull, and he's got a fourth on deck,'' Politico wrote in the profile of Bardella that accompanied his picture. And in another treatment, from January 2010, Bardella was quoted as saying, ''I don't ever stop.'' The story was pegged to the sudden death of Boehner's chief of staff. (Issa later purchased a T-shirt for Bardella that said: ''It's All About Me.'')
Bardella had found love. Issa's, sure, but also the immediate gratification of the early-21st-century political-media experience. There was none of the slog of policy debates and committee hearings and constituent visits. Public relations is what most politicians care about most, and Bardella was as adept at it as anyone.
With the 2010 midterms approaching and the G.O.P. primed to reclaim the House majority for the first time since 2006, Bardella felt that he, too, was ascendant. He would send talking points over to Newt Gingrich, at his personal e-mail address, to help the former speaker prep for an appearance on ''Meet the Press'' -- and ''Newt'' wrote back, thanking him. He had a huge whiteboard on which he listed all the media names he was warding off at that particular moment (David at ''Meet the Press,'' Greta at Fox). They all wanted time with Issa, and Bardella would do his best to make it happen (''Greta has always been fair''), no guarantees, but first he has a call on the other line, and 200 e-mails from bookers to deal with, and the boss calling him on the cell. . . .
I first considered writing about Darrell Issa in the summer of 2010. He was showing up a lot in the press, the articles always saying that he could become a supreme nightmare for the White House if Republicans won the House majority in November. As head of House Oversight, Issa would gain the power to call investigations and issue subpoenas and do pretty much whatever he wanted to distract, embarrass and mess with the Obama mission. He called himself a Reagan Republican, but Issa's true compass in 2010 seemed to point toward whatever most got under the administration's skin and himself on television.
Democrats had begun circulating fat opposition files on the prospective chairman. Oppo about Issa always begins with a Los Angeles Times exposé published during his unsuccessful run for the Senate in 1998. The story details what Issa has described as his ''colorful youth'' -- a period that apparently stretched well into his 20s. He pleaded guilty to carrying an unregistered pistol in 1972 and, with his brother William, was indicted on felony charges related to car thefts in 1972 and 1980. (The first case was eventually dismissed; prosecutors dropped the charges on the second.)
I had no idea of Issa's history until I got a call one summer afternoon from the White House, peddling oppo. Bill Burton, then the deputy press secretary at the White House, urged me (in the most sheepish and above-it-all tones) to spend some time ''getting to know Darrell Issa.'' As an hors d'oeuvre, Burton mentioned the auto thefts. Interesting, I thought. And kind of funny, since Issa made his fortune selling car alarms.
Not long after, Issa sat for a long interview with me in his office. It was mostly unmemorable, though he twice launched into tangential assaults on Eric Lichtblau, who wrote the L.A. Times story and is now a colleague of mine at The Times. After I made a fact-checking inquiry with Bardella the next day about the old auto-theft charge, a very agitated Issa called minutes later, suggesting that I just have ''that hatchet man Lichtblau'' write the story for me.
In November, Republicans regained control of the House as expected. As the new chairman of a pivotal committee, Issa was now unquestionably one of the most visible Republicans in Washington. Bardella viewed himself -- not just his boss -- as a news driver. Reporters were coming to him, not the other way around. If Bardella decided, for instance, to ''give'' the story of Issa's first subpoena to Jake Sherman at Politico rather than to Alan Fram at The Associated Press, Sherman could boast of a nice little scoop for himself, while Fram might suffer an unpleasant ''Why we no have?'' from his editor. The cycle might reverse two hours later when Bardella was ready to award his next nugget.
A few weeks after Election Day, I visited Bardella on Capitol Hill and told him I might be interested in reporting on him for a book I was writing about this supercharged era in the capital. I found him to be an emblematic superstaffer who was making Washington work for him -- a kind of will-to-power orphan who was devising his persona on the fly. I loved the sheer unabashedness, even jubilance, of Bardella's networking and ladder-climbing. Clearly enamored of his own narrative, Bardella was intrigued by my proposition. If I was reading his face right, he had already given some thought as to who would play him in the HBO treatment. He said he believed his was an important story to tell.
I told Bardella that I would visit with him periodically and encouraged him to send along updates and observations by e-mail. Even better, he said, he would copy me on occasional e-mail correspondence that he felt reflected his frenetic days. ''My e-mails can basically be read as a diary of how I do my job in this crazy world,'' he told me. He didn't appear to think twice about sharing correspondence from people who did not know their e-mails were being shared -- a group that included the occasional member of Congress. Bardella concluded our conversation with a favorite phrase among aggressive D.C. boundary-pushers: ''I've always thought it was easier to ask forgiveness than permission,'' he said.
Bardella would be asking forgiveness soon enough. But the year started well. Issa spent Jan. 2 appearing on three Sunday interview shows, and Republicans formally assumed control of the House on Jan. 5. Bardella spent much of that afternoon moving into his new office, roughly the size of a small hotel room -- a major expansion from the crowded cubicle he inhabited in the minority days.
That day, Robert Gibbs announced that he would be leaving as White House press secretary. Though they had never met, Gibbs's career trajectory was one Bardella dreamed of: he was a journeyman flack who struck gold with the right patron and wound up talking at the lectern at 1600 Pennsylvania. Gibbs's time at the White House had been a mixed bag, which included internal West Wing clashes, strained relationships with reporters and a few mishaps that resulted from excessive candor. But he was nonetheless set for life as a professional ''former.'' That is, a former official who can easily score a seven-figure income as an out-of-office wise man, statesman or hired gun. ''Formers'' stick to Washington like melted cheese on a gold-plated toaster, and Gibbs would be no exception. He could move seamlessly into the news media (MSNBC) at a time when punditry replaced reporting as journalism's highest pursuit. (Since leaving the White House in 2011, Gibbs has made about $2 million in paid speeches alone.)
Absurdly, I asked Bardella that day what he would say if Obama called asking him to replace Gibbs. He actually seemed to consider the question for a second. ''If the president calls, I would have to take it seriously,'' he said solemnly before catching himself. ''But I don't think the president will be calling.''
Bardella largely avoided the pomp and parties that rang in this latest ''new era'' in Washington, though I did accompany him to a B-list reception a few weeks earlier honoring the 112th Congress at L'Enfant Plaza Hotel. When we arrived, Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz, a Florida Democrat, was addressing incoming members, reporters, lobbyists and various party crashers. ''I hate her,'' Bardella muttered as he stared down into his BlackBerry. Wasserman Schultz then shared that when she first came to Congress, ''I was able to pass substantive legislation about Jewish-American heritage.'' (Bardella, without looking up: ''Give me a break.'') Wasserman Schultz concluded by urging everyone in the room to avoid succumbing to the ''temptations'' of Washington.
Bardella's BlackBerry trance was broken by Karin Tanabe, a reporter then working for Politico who came over to introduce herself. Bardella's swoon was rather egregious. I listened as he told Tanabe that he ''worked in oversight,'' which sounded like a surefire Washington pickup line to me (''Is that a subpoena in your pocket?'') until Tanabe killed the mood by saying, ''Oh, my boyfriend works in oversight,'' and the discussion ended soon after.
On Day 1 of the 112th Congress, Issa and Bardella headed down Pennsylvania Avenue for a scheduled appearance on Fox Business Network with Neil Cavuto. The interview was held at the Newseum, between the Capitol and the White House on Pennsylvania Avenue, and the two went to the seventh floor to await their ''hit.'' They were joined by a slate of usual suspects that included Trent Lott, Dennis Kucinich, Ralph Nader, Paul Ryan and Mark Kirk, an Illinois congressman who had just been elected to the Senate. Issa swept in, joining his fellow greenroom perennials, and the scene devolved into a bipartisan blur of back-slappy banter.
Lott, approaching Kucinich and Nader: ''All right, which one of y'all is going to run for president?''
Laughter.
Kirk, to Kucinich, his now former House colleague: ''You need some makeup, Dennis. Heavily need it.''
Kucinich was unamused.
Off to the side, Bardella stood spellbound by the privileged circle in front of him.
The spiral began for Bardella later that month, during a trip with Issa to Las Vegas, where the congressman was attending an electronics trade show. Bardella was ostensibly there to baby-sit Issa during an interview he was doing with Ryan Lizza of The New Yorker, who was writing a profile of the new chairman. Bardella spent much of his time demonstrating for Lizza how smart he was, and Lizza, in turn, wrote a lot in the article about Bardella, whom Issa referred to as ''my secret weapon.''
''My goal is very simple,'' Bardella was quoted in The New Yorker. ''I'm going to make Darrell Issa an actual political figure. I'm going to focus like a laser beam on the 500 people here who care about this crap, and that's it.''
Representative Elijah Cummings of Maryland, the new top Democrat on the committee, sent a letter to Issa. ''A profile of you posted yesterday by The New Yorker reports that you are using committee staff and taxpayer funds in an effort to transform your public image 'from an obscure congressman to a fixture of the Washington media-political establishment.' . . . In addition to characterizing the committee's work as 'crap,' '' Cummings continued, ''your spokesman openly disparaged the media.''
Yes, you could say that.
''Some people in the press, I think, are just lazy as hell,'' Bardella told Lizza. ''There are times when I pitch a story, and they do it word for word. That's just embarrassing. They're adjusting to a time that demands less quality and more quantity.''
Lizza also quoted Bardella saying there was a new development in his dealings with the media. Now, he said, ''reporters e-mail me, saying: 'Hey, I'm writing this story on this thing. Do you think you guys might want to investigate it? If so, if you get some documents, can you give them to me?' I'm, like, 'You guys are going to write that we're the ones wanting to do all the investigating, but you guys are literally the ones trying to egg us on to do that!' ''
In the bland landscape of On-Messageville, this was some earth-charring stuff. (And largely true, in many cases.) Bardella was in trouble. Sources in the House leadership office told me that top aides to Speaker Boehner and the Republican whip, Kevin McCarthy, wanted Bardella fired, but they left the final decision to Issa. ''I felt like I had disappointed my dad,'' Bardella told me.
Dad was pretty understanding, all things considered. He knew Bardella could be immature and needlessly combative. He could be that way himself, especially when he was younger. He decided to keep Bardella. He might catch some heat for a few days, but Bardella was worth the trouble.
Bardella received plenty of reassuring e-mails, including one from Juleanna Glover, a longtime Republican flack, lobbyist and hostess known for the parties she holds for People Worth Knowing at her Kalorama mansion. In her note to Bardella, Glover assured him that Lizza's full airing of Issa's past in the disastrous New Yorker profile would inoculate the congressman from future examinations of his sordid history -- ''especially,'' Glover wrote, ''since Issa did such a sublime job in answering all the questions.'' (Indeed, Issa was sublime in explaining away the auto-theft raps.) ''The piece turned out being a real credit to your boss's intellect, insights and humanity,'' Glover went on. ''Thanks for that, Juleanna,'' Bardella replied. ''Appreciate your insight.''
Between December 2010 and February 2011, Bardella would forward me seven or eight e-mails a day. For instance, Bardella did not think Representative Jason Chaffetz would mind his sharing an irate e-mail about an article in Yahoo! News that the congressman had stumbled upon. Chaffetz, who is chairman of the Subcommittee on National Security, Homeland Defense and Foreign Operations, was not pleased that he was not informed about the article, which dealt with his area of jurisdiction:
''I would appreciate a review of how the committee and the subcommittee are going to work with our office. Did I ever get a heads up on this? I don't think so, but perhaps I am wrong. I believe I am the chairman of the subcommittee with jurisdiction on this matter. Somehow, some way we are going to have to be better coordinated on this stuff. I find it unacceptable and potentially embarrassing for all involved. Also, why is this not even on the list of potential items given to me by the subcommittee staff?''
Most were from reporters or television producers and bookers. It was, sure enough, a window into how Bardella spent his days. Nearly all of the e-mails were pro forma requests to have Issa come on such-and-such a show, or Bardella reaching out to so-and-so to offer ''guidance.'' He was passing on, I sensed, the messages that best portrayed him as a P.R. stud not to be messed with.
For example, after receiving a request for Issa to appear on the liberal commentator Ed Schultz's MSNBC show, Bardella was happy to blind-copy me in his reply: ''Given that Ed has been lambasting Darrell for months every day, he has no interest in going on a show with a host who already has his mind made up.''
He also delighted in sending me an irritated e-mail from the office of Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the ranking Republican on the Senate Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs. Collins was upset because Issa's office had released the news that FEMA had improperly awarded a $450,000 grant to an affiliate of ACORN -- the product of an investigation that Issa and Collins had worked on together. But only Issa was quoted in the story, which appeared in The New York Times.
''Hey, Kurt,'' wrote Collins's spokesman Kevin Kelley, ''needless to say, my boss really wishes she had a shot at including a quote, along with your boss, in the stories that have come out since your office decided to leak a report that was jointly requested.''
The next day, Bardella sent me a postscript under the heading ''You'll Love This.''
''Jen Burita, Sen. Collins' Deputy [chief of staff] who was the Comm Dir when I worked for Olympia, just called my Chief of Staff to complain that I had not apologized for scooping them.'' What did Issa's chief of staff say in response? He ''hung up the phone and said, 'Did I sound indifferent enough?' ''
One Friday night in late February 2011, I was at my office when Bardella called, sounding shaky. ''Jake Sherman at Politico is working on a story about me,'' he said. He explained that Sherman and his colleague Marin Cogan had heard Bardella had been copying me on e-mails. I had wondered when this would become an issue.
I knew Bardella had been boasting about the e-mail-forwarding, because a few people had asked me about it in amused disbelief. It was only a matter of time before it got into the media bloodstream. At one point I mentioned to Bardella that he should perhaps be a little less vocal about this, and he claimed he had not told a soul. I didn't press the point. The truth was I didn't think most of the e-mails were that interesting.
On the phone, Bardella kept asking me what he should do. He was hushed and out of breath and sounded as if he were hiding in a stairwell. I told him he could say he was not at liberty to discuss his participation in the book -- or some righteous stonewall like that. He said that that's what he did. Except what he actually told Sherman was: ''Am I bcc'ing him on every e-mail I send out? Of course not.'' At which point it was clear that Bardella was nailed. Any idiot would know he was bcc'ing me on some e-mails.
Sherman called me a few minutes later. We had never met, but I knew he was a good young reporter who had been covering the House Republicans for about a year and a half. I had been reading his stories (and, yes, a few of his e-mails) because of my interest in Bardella. We spoke mostly off the record. I confirmed nothing, which made me feel like a jackass, because he clearly had picked up the true rumor and my first instinct was to tell him what was going on. But it was unclear if he had publishable goods, and I was not going to be his confirming source on the e-mails. I was in no position to be unless Bardella released me from our ground rules -- that I would not reveal details of our arrangement until after the book was published.
To a normal population of news consumers, a Hill flack forwarding e-mails to a reporter writing a book could not be a less interesting story. Few people even know what flacks are or why they exist (much less that P.R. expenditures account for billions of dollars in the gold-rush economy of the nation's capital). But the news media is no normal population. It is an exceptional population: It cares deeply about itself and reports extensively on its doings. Washington puts the ''me'' in ''media.''
The next day, I received a call from John Harris, the founding editor of Politico and a former colleague at The Washington Post. He said he was particularly interested in getting to the bottom of this Bardella story. Our conversation mimicked the one I had had the day before with Sherman: John wanted to know what was going on, I told him nothing while trying to appear helpful.
The one difference is that I had known and worked with Harris for years. Now we were on different sides, though united by our shared participation in the esoteric game: two socks tumbling in the same dryer.
The next day, Harris wrote to Issa demanding that he look into the matter of whether his spokesman was forwarding e-mails from reporters to another reporter who was working on a book about people who found this kind of thing interesting.
''It's the start of what I'm sure will be a memorable week,'' Bardella wrote on his Facebook page on Monday, Feb. 28. Politico's Sherman and Cogan posted their first article on the e-mail-forwarding that evening. It began: ''Representative Darrell Issa, the Republican chairman of the powerful Oversight and Government Reform Committee, has launched an inquiry into whether spokesman Kurt Bardella improperly shared e-mails from other reporters with a New York Times reporter writing a book on Washington's political culture, Politico has learned.''
Washington convention dictated that Issa must go through the all-important process of investigating this matter and then issue his findings. Part of this would include him seeking me out for questioning. I would not cooperate because 1) that would violate my ground rules with Bardella, 2) it would be partaking of a political exercise and 3) ''refusing to cooperate'' with the authority is the badass thing for a reporter do.
The next few days swirled. Roughly 150 stories were written about l'affaire Bardella in the 72 hours after the original ''bombshell'' was posted on Politico. (Politico would run seven news stories plus numerous blog posts on the subject in the first day and a half.) Everyone in the Washington media lined up to give their ''take'' on the story that came to dominate capital chatter during a week in which Republicans were otherwise threatening to shut down the government and a revolution was raging in Cairo.
Mike Allen devoted a large part of the next day's Playbook to the story. My employer, The New York Times, published an article on the Bardella matter, as did my former employer, The Washington Post. Many people I have known and worked and socialized with for years wrote columns and blog posts about the saga. The stories were all comically larded with ''full disclosures'' about how the authors were friends with this person or that person or, in many cases, me. In his Washington Post column, Dana Milbank (a friend) wrote, ''If Washington's political culture gets any more incestuous, our children are going to be born with extra fingers.''
The best distillation of the episode was on Twitter by John Dickerson, a political writer for Slate, talking head for CBS News and you-know-what of mine: ''Instead of writing a book about how self-involved Washington is,'' Dickerson wrote, ''Mark Leibovich has gotten people to act it out in real time.''
Issa called me early on Tuesday morning. ''Hey, we're in the news,'' I said to him, maybe too glibly. ''I've had better weeks,'' he said. And then, in my hostage-video voice, I told him I would not help him in his investigation. Issa seemed to expect this and appeared to be just checking a box with his call anyway, a brief nonconversation that bought him the right to say he had talked to the reporter in his subsequent description of his inquiry. We spoke for about two or three minutes. I told Issa that I did not think Bardella was a bad guy or that his intentions were malicious. Later that morning, Issa called Bardella into his office and fired him.
New stories popped online. The Huffington Post's political tip sheet said the following: ''A book about the incestuousness of Washington -- written by a man everyone incestuously calls 'Leibo' -- incestuously got someone fired.''
People were talking to and about me as if I'd uncovered some amazing journalistic trove, as if getting a bunch of suck-uppy e-mails that reporters had sent to a Hill flack was like getting slipped the Pentagon Papers. Yes, reporters suck up, especially here, as Jack Shafer, then of Slate, pointed out: ''If sucking up to important sources were a crime, 95 percent of all Washington journalists would be doing time right now.'' Colleagues kept egging me on to publish as many of their peers' e-mails as I could possibly fit into the book. ''A book that looks at the D.C. media nexus and doesn't offer someone a measure of embarrassment would be like a film on the desert showing no sand,'' wrote Clint Hendler in The Columbia Journalism Review.
Chad Pergram declared on FoxNews.com that the Bardella story would ''reverberate for a while in the halls of Congress'' and would ''stand as an iconic tale of someone who rose and fell in one of the most unforgiving arenas on the planet.''
The iconic tale dazzled everyone like a snowflake, then quickly dissolved.
A few weeks after Bardella was fired, I kept running into people who said they'd seen my name mentioned somewhere but did not remember exactly why. Bardella was finding the same thing. The life cycle of public disgrace had been reduced to almost nothing, and what's left after it exhausts itself is just a neutral sheen of notoriety. Bardella received a call one day from a producer for CNN's ''Anderson Cooper 360°.'' They were interested in Bardella coming on as a ''Republican strategist'' to discuss how the so-called birthers were questioning whether President Obama was actually born in the United States. Bardella said the producer told him they were looking for ''new voices'' to put on the air. He said he would be interested. They did a pre-interview, he told me, but the birther spot fell through. They agreed to keep in touch.
Bardella and I got together at the end of May. He asked me to meet him at a cigar bar downtown called Shelly's Back Room. He shared a private humidor there. I agreed to meet him in the middle of the day. He told me he had talked to some people about jobs: one with a conservative policy group bankrolled by the billionaire Koch brothers, another with a P.R. shop in town. He had also talked to Jonathan Strong, then a reporter at The Daily Caller, a start-up Web site that was co-founded by the libertarian talking head Tucker Carlson. Strong had worked on the Hill as both a staff member and reporter, which is how he came to know Bardella -- who had forwarded me some of Strong's e-mails over the months. One sequence in early February stuck out in my memory.
''Favor,'' Strong wrote in his subject line. He explained in his e-mail that The Daily Caller was compiling some promotional materials for advertisers. ''I have been tasked with getting some quotes from Members about how they read and enjoy The Daily Caller,'' Strong wrote. ''Is this something you could help me out with?'' This struck me as cozy even by D.C. standards: a Congressional reporter asking a member of Congress to lend his name to his publication's promotional copy. Bardella was happy to help. He asked Strong what he wanted Issa to say. ''Just like, I enjoy reading The Daily Caller with some kind of mild variation on that theme,'' Strong wrote. ''I read it daily, my staff stays updated by reading etc.'' Strong added that ''my bosses are on my case about it.'' He had his response from Bardella in minutes:
''Not only has The Daily Caller become one of Washington's must-reads of the day, but it has found its place in leading a daily news cycle that changes throughout the day. I can't tell you how many times my staff has sent me breaking news that originates with reporting from The Daily Caller -- Representative Darrell Issa.''
''Epic,'' Strong wrote back to Bardella two minutes later. ''Thank you.''
After his firing, Bardella spoke to Strong about the possibility of working at The Daily Caller. Strong put him in touch with Carlson.
Carlson has a special zest for goosing the self-righteous posture of official Washington. ''This is such a judgmental city when it comes to people like Kurt,'' said Carlson, who had previously appeared as a contestant on ''Dancing with the Stars.'' Carlson called me in April for my opinion on whether he should hire Bardella. I was hesitant to get involved further in Bardella's fate, but I figured it was the least I could do after getting the guy fired.
I told Carlson what he already knew: that Bardella was high-risk and high-reward, driven and talented and immature. He had a desperate edge and would have to be watched closely. Carlson invited Bardella in to talk about the job and hired him a week later.
Within a few weeks, Bardella was writing commentaries for The Daily Caller. His first was about Michele Bachmann's expected entry into the presidential race. ''As long as her candidacy doesn't completely implode,'' Bardella opined, ''her very presence in the Republican field creates dangers for the more established candidates regardless of whether she wins or loses.'' Bardella's op-ed was quoted in the morning e-mail roundups, including ABC's The Note and NBC's First Read. People were reading what he had to say, sending him notes.
And, for what it's worth, the communications director whom Bardella replaced at The Daily Caller, Becca Glover Watkins, had taken a job on Capitol Hill as deputy press secretary for a publicity-hungry Republican from California, Darrell Issa.
A few months after Bardella's firing, Washingtonian magazine published a long article on Bardella titled ''The Comeback.'' From reading the story, it seemed inevitable that Bardella would be coming full circle soon enough. Issa was quoted saying that Bardella ''always has a home with us.'' In early September 2011, six months after he was fired, Bardella returned to work for Issa.
In his new job as a senior adviser to the committee, Bardella would not have any official dealings with the press. The House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform's communications director, Frederick Hill, told reporters that Issa believed Bardella deserved a second chance, even though he had acted improperly. I first learned the news from Mike Allen in Politico.
Bardella remains with Darrell Issa today. He declined to comment for this story.
''This Town: Two Parties and a Funeral -- Plus, Plenty of Valet Parking! -- in America's Gilded Capital,'' from which this article was adapted, is to be published by Blue Rider Press this month.

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS: Like Father Figure, Like Son: Kurt Bardella and Darrell Issa. (MM21)
Always On: Bardella was the embodiment of the new Washington superstaffer. (MM22)
 DRAWING (DRAWINGS BY MATTHEW WOODSON) (MM23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); POLITICS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



188 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1816 words

HEADLINE: Morsi Spurned Deals, Seeing Military as Tamed

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK and MAYY EL SHEIKH

 BODY:
CAIRO -- As President Mohamed Morsi huddled in his guard's quarters during his last hours as Egypt's first elected leader, he received a call from an Arab foreign minister with a final offer to end a standoff with the country's top generals, senior advisers with the president said.
The foreign minister said he was acting as an emissary of Washington, the advisers said, and he asked if Mr. Morsi would accept the appointment of a new prime minister and cabinet, one that would take over all legislative powers and replace his chosen provincial governors.
The aides said they already knew what Mr. Morsi's answer would be. He had responded to a similar proposal by pointing at his neck. ''This before that,'' he had told his aides, repeating a vow to die before accepting what he considered a de facto coup and thus a crippling blow to Egyptian democracy. 
His top foreign policy adviser, Essam el-Haddad, then left the room to call the United States ambassador, Anne W. Patterson, to say that Mr. Morsi refused. When he returned, he said he had spoken to Susan E. Rice, the national security adviser, and that the military takeover was about to begin, senior aides said.
''Mother just told us that we will stop playing in one hour,'' an aide texted an associate, playing on a sarcastic Egyptian expression for the country's Western patron, ''Mother America.''
The State Department had no comment Saturday on the details of the American role in Mr. Morsi's final days.
The abrupt end of Egypt's first Islamist government was the culmination of months of escalating tensions and ultimately futile American efforts to broker a solution that would keep Mr. Morsi in his elected office, at least in name, if not in power.
A new alliance of youthful activists and Mubarak-era elites was driving street protests. A collapsing economy put new pressure on Mr. Morsi and his allies in the Muslim Brotherhood, the once-outlawed Islamist group that had finally come to power after the ouster of the former president, Hosni Mubarak. And an alliance between Mr. Morsi and the nation's top generals was gradually unraveling.
Senior Brotherhood officials said Mr. Morsi's adamant response to the last proposal -- a combination of idealism and stubbornness -- epitomized his rule. It may also have doomed his presidency.
As long ago as the fall, he had spoken fatalistically of the possibility of his own ouster, his senior advisers said. ''Do you think this is the peak?'' he asked a visibly anxious aide during his first major political crisis. ''No,'' Mr. Morsi said with resignation, ''The peak will be when you see my blood flowing on the floor.''
That was just after what his advisers and Muslim Brotherhood leaders now acknowledge was the defining blunder of his one-year presidency. After Mubarak-appointed judges dissolved the Islamist-led Parliament, Mr. Morsi in November declared his own authority above the courts until a constitutional convention could finish its work.
Tens of thousands of protesters denounced his tactic as authoritarian, setting off the first major street fighting between his supporters and opponents. Even some of his allies in the Muslim Brotherhood were angered, the group's leaders and presidential advisers said. They complained that he had not consulted them, but still expected them to defend him in the streets.
''If I were not in my place, I would think he wants to be a dictator,'' one Muslim Brotherhood leader said when he heard the news on television, a colleague recounted on condition of anonymity.
Mr. Morsi, though, feared he would appear weak if he backed down, his advisers said. ''The president is headstrong,'' lamented another Brotherhood leader.
Through it all, Mr. Morsi never believed the generals would turn on him as long as he respected their autonomy and privileges, his advisers said. He had been the Muslim Brotherhood's designated envoy for talks with the ruling military council after the ouster of Mr. Mubarak. His counterpart on the council was Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi.
The Brotherhood was naturally suspicious of the military, its historical opponent, but General Sisi cultivated Mr. Morsi and other leaders, one of them said, including going out of his way to show that he was a pious Muslim. ''That is how the relationship between the two of them started,'' said a senior Brotherhood official close to Mr. Morsi. ''He trusted him.''
The two grew so close that Mr. Morsi caught his advisers by surprise when he promoted General Sisi to defense minister last summer as part of a deal that persuaded the military for the first time to let the elected president take full control of his government. Mr. Morsi kept relations with the military as his ''personal file,'' and worked out the deal without consulting his aides, one adviser said.
But the generals' exit, however, only redoubled the criticism from Mr. Morsi's opponents that the Islamists were monopolizing power.
Mr. Morsi failed to broaden his appeal among the sectarian opposition, and amid complaints that he and the Brotherhood were monopolizing power. And when the protests took off last fall, General Sisi signaled that his departure from politics might not be so permanent. Without consulting Mr. Morsi, the general publicly invited all the country's fractious political factions -- from social democrats to ultraconservative sheiks -- to a meeting to try to come to a compromise on a more inclusive government. Mr. Morsi quashed the idea, advisers said, to avoid drawing the generals back into politics.
General Sisi said publicly last week that he continued to try to broker some compromise with the opposition and to ease the political polarization. It was at that point, Mr. Morsi's advisers said, that they first suspected General Sisi of intrigue.
Mr. Morsi, they said, often pressed the general to stop unnamed military officials from making threatening or disparaging statements toward the president in the news media. General Sisi merely said that ''newspapers and media exaggerate,'' and that he was ''trying to control the tensions toward the president inside the military,'' one adviser said.
Yet Mr. Morsi insisted to his aides that he remained fully confident that General Sisi would not interfere, almost until the end of his presidency. He was the last one in the inner circle to acknowledge last week that General Sisi was ousting them.
United States officials had repeatedly urged Mr. Morsi to compromise with the opposition and include it in government. In December, President Obama met with Mr. Haddad, Mr. Morsi's foreign policy adviser, in the Oval Office to deliver that message, Mr. Morsi's advisers said. At one point, they said, Mr. Obama offered to intervene with the opposition leaders, either Mohamed ElBaradei, the former United Nations diplomat, or Amr Moussa, a former foreign minister under Mr. Mubarak. But Mr. Morsi declined.
Embassy officials tried to act as intermediaries, Morsi advisers said. They said Secretary of State John Kerry suggested naming Mr. ElBaradei as prime minister. But this year, Ms. Patterson pointedly told Mr. Morsi's aides that some in Washington were running out of patience with her defense of Egypt's new Islamist leaders, his advisers said.
By June, the economy was sputtering, with gas shortages and blackouts. Young organizers tapped into the growing discontent with a petition drive calling for Mr. Morsi's removal, and it was set to culminate in a demonstration on the anniversary of his inauguration, June 30.
The first alarms went off in Mr. Morsi's inner circle on June 21, when General Sisi issued a public statement warning that the growing ''split in society'' between Mr. Morsi's supporters and opponents compelled the military ''to intervene.''
Mr. Morsi was given no warning, his advisers said. But when Mr. Morsi called the general, General Sisi told the president that ''it was to satisfy some of his men'' and that ''it was nothing more than an attempt to absorb their anger,'' one of Mr. Morsi's advisers said. ''So even after that first statement, the president didn't think a coup was imminent.''
The day before the protests, General Sisi called Mr. Morsi to press him for a package of concessions, including a new cabinet. But Mr. Morsi refused, saying he needed to consult first with his Islamist coalition.
When the protests came last Sunday, demonstrators were energized by the general's suggestions of a possible intervention. Millions poured into the streets.
Inside Mr. Morsi's office. Mr. Morsi's team checked the official crowd count, sent its own observers, monitored the gathering on Google Earth, and even compared the numbers of mobile phone signals in various public squares, one adviser said, and mistakenly concluded that the pro-Morsi rally in Cairo outnumbered the protests against him.
''We felt a sense of relief,'' the adviser said.
The next day, on Monday, General Sisi gave political leaders a 48-hour ultimatum to reach a compromise. A shaken Morsi adviser, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said at the time the president's team considered it ''a military coup.''
Mr. Morsi's advisers had meetings with Ms. Patterson and her deputy as well as a phone call with Ms. Rice, the national security adviser. Mr. Morsi's advisers argued that ousting the president would be ''a long term disaster'' for Egypt and the Arab world because people would ''lose faith in democracy.'' They said it would set off an explosion in the streets that they could not control.
And they argued that the United States was implicated: ''Nobody who knows Egypt is going to believe a coup could go forward without a green light from the Americans.''
At a meeting with General Sisi at 2 p.m. the next day, Mr. Morsi's advisers said that they had their coalition's blessing to accept the earlier concessions the general had suggested before the protest.
But when the general returned to the Republican Guard building at 6 p.m., he said ''the opposition'' had balked, the advisers said.
Mr. Morsi's team did not know who the general actually consulted and the young protest leaders and some other opposition leaders said they did not know either. But that night Mr. Morsi delivered a fiery address denouncing his opponents as traitorous conspirators.
General Sisi later publicly cited the speech as a turning point in his decision to act.
On Wednesday, the generals convened a four-hour meeting at military headquarters with protest and opposition party leaders. The head of Mr. Morsi's Islamist party, now jailed, was invited but did not attend.
In Washington, officials stepped back and said little.
Mr. Morsi had been working out of his guards' house for his own security during the protests. As he waited to be arrested, he told stories about the politicians of his youth. ''He was as relaxed as I've ever seen him,'' one adviser said.
As the last aides to leave walked out, one heard a general tell his guards: ''Lock the gates.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A funeral on Saturday for a victim of clashes in Cairo. Political protests have been spreading around the nation in recent days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MOHAMED EL-SHAHED/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (A1)
 As long ago as the fall, just after setting his authority above the courts, Mohamed Morsi had spoken fatalistically about the possibility of his ouster from the presidency, senior advisers said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAYA ALLERUZZO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (93%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); SUSAN RICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (90%) EGYPT (95%); UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



189 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: Reborn as a Rental

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
Water leaked in and wrecked boilers. Stucco peeled. Vandals stole copper pipes.
But after suffering the indignities that can occur over years of sitting vacant as a stalled condominium project, 290 Mulberry Street, at East Houston Street, is bouncing back -- this time as a rental.
Called the Mulberry House, the 12-story tower offers 9 units, all of them 3-bedrooms, in a configuration that the building's promoters say is among its most appealing qualities. ''There's never been a lot of new developments in New York at that size, and there's a huge demand for them,'' said Lucie Holt, an agent with Town Residential, which is handling the marketing. 
But just how the apartment house, whose lumpy chocolate-brick facade once flirted with eyesore status, has pulled off its comeback is equally interesting.
When the current owner, Karass Development, bought it for $25 million in 2011 from Cardinal Real Estate Investments, the company that unloaded it in the aftermath of the recession, the interiors were mostly raw. ''It looked like a construction zone,'' Ms. Holt said.
But many of the materials meant for its apartments had already been ordered before the site was essentially abandoned in 2009; they just needed to be tracked down, according to Greenlight Construction Management, which is overseeing the project.
In the building's ground-floor retail area, Greenlight happened upon a stash of thousands of square feet of wide-plank walnut boards, which were in great shape despite having been left in the cold, drafty space for years, said Matthew Tritt, the president of Greenlight. The boards have since been installed in the units' floors, warmed with radiant heat.
Similarly, white Schiffini cabinets destined for the kitchens were tracked down in a warehouse in New Jersey. And there are familiar faces: SHoP Architects, the designer for the first go-round at the address, is also at the helm now.
But the Mulberry House also has some new elements. Karass, which invested another $4 million in the building, decided to put in different kitchen sinks, picking ones that include garbage disposals; the developer also opted for different types of glass tile for the bathrooms.
Presumably, both the current and former development teams were drawn to the site by its views.
Many of the terraces, which are in every unit but one, offer views of bustling East Houston. The three levels of outdoor space in the triplex penthouse take in St. Patrick's Old Cathedral, a NoLIta landmark.
Yet the most distinctive panorama may be from the fourth floor, where a living room looks out on a gold-leaf statue of Puck, the Shakespearean character who preens on a corner of a building named for him across the street.
Renting in what by all appearances passes as a condo -- after all, white marble lines the lobby -- is predictably expensive. Monthly rents start at $10,500, for a second-floor unit with 1,800 square feet, or about $70 a square foot. And they climb sharply by floor. The 2,700-square-foot penthouse is $25,000 a month, or about $110 a foot. Move-ins are expected in August, Ms. Holt said.
But Mulberry House may be competitive. At 55 Thompson SoHo, a nearby nine-story rental from the Manhattan Skyline Management Corporation that opened in 2011, the least expensive two-bedrooms listed recently at $16,750 a month, or about $135 a square foot.
Those involved in the Mulberry project, which has required a year of construction, say they're relieved to see it draw to a close. ''Stalled sites are some of the most complicated because you never know what you'll find when you go in,'' Mr. Tritt said. ''But we've really brought this place back from the dead.''
Karass, whose other New York property is the mixed-use Second Empire at 901 Broadway, which it bought for $24.6 million in 2009, is headed by Vladimir Kokorev, an author and a lawyer. His father, also Vladimir Kokorev, is a Russian shipping magnate.
Mr. Kokorev says inheriting any building that sits dark and empty for years is challenging. ''You are bound to find problems due to years of no construction progress and lack of proper maintenance,'' he wrote in an e-mail. ''Needless to say, this is very time-consuming and often frustrating, but in the end, absolutely worth it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The chocolate-brick building at 290 Mulberry Street, formerly a condo project, sat vacant for three years until a developer revived it as a rental. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (74%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RETAILERS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (77%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



190 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Itsy Bitsy Teenie Weenie Beach Cars

BYLINE: By JIM KOSCS

 BODY:
With a collection of 30 vintage automobiles, including the Rolls-Royce used in the 1960s television detective series ''Burke's Law,'' Jim Inglis can be reasonably sure he won't see another car like his when he drives from his home in Palm Beach, Fla., to the nearby Breakers resort. That wasn't the case one summer day four years ago when a Fiat 600 Jolly identical to his 1961 model -- down to its coral paint color -- pulled in behind him.
It was an improbable encounter, given that fewer than 700 of the little runabouts were ever made and perhaps 100 of the originals remain anywhere in the world.
The Jolly was a tiny buggy built under contract by Ghia, the Italian design studio and coachbuilder, in 1958-66. With its bulbous shape, doorless sides, removable surrey top, wicker seats and pastel color palette, the Jolly looks more like an amusement-park ride than a road-legal car. 
But collectors are taking ''beach cars'' like the Jolly seriously indeed, as demonstrated by the $110,000 paid for a 1958 model at an RM Auctions sale in March at Amelia Island, Fla.
Informally defined as small, open vehicles with jaunty styling and a laid-back attitude, beach cars are the auto world's head-turning, sun-loving equivalent of a two-piece bathing suit or a skimpy Speedo.
Among these, the Fiat Jolly commands the most attention and the highest prices, owing to its low production, designer pedigree and colorful history. A Renault version based on the 4CV economy car, also converted by Ghia, is highly collectible as well -- only 50 were made.
Aside from vintage-car auctions or concours events, an upscale seaside enclave offers the best opportunity to see a Jolly or other beach car in its element. The people who own them tend to drive them.
Wayne Carini, the host of ''Chasing Classic Cars'' on the Velocity Channel, has owned five Jollys, always keeping one at his beach house in Old Lyme, Conn. Mr. Carini, who also runs an auto restoration shop in Portland, Conn., says one of his customers keeps two Jollys at a house in Hilton Head, S.C.
Like other owners, Mr. Carini takes pleasure in recounting how the Jolly came to be, ''a very cool story,'' in his words.
Ghia created the car at the request of Gianni Agnelli, the grandson of Fiat's founder, Giovanni Agnelli, as a custom land tender for his yacht. Agnelli was a jet-setter before there were jets -- he was called ''the Rake of the Riviera'' -- and a style setter who influenced men's fashions.
Ferrari, which Fiat would acquire years later, built custom models for Mr. Agnelli in the 1950s. But it was the cheeky Fiat that his fellow yacht owners coveted when they saw him driving it in Monaco and Cannes, prompting Ghia to make copies. Mr. Agnelli took the reins of Fiat in 1966.
The Jolly came in two main versions. One, based on the tiny Fiat 500 economy car, had a 13-horsepower air-cooled 2-cylinder engine. More desirable to buyers at the time -- and to today's collectors as well -- was a model built on the slightly larger Fiat 600. Mr. Inglis described that car as much nicer to drive, with a water-cooled 4-cylinder engine making 28 horsepower. (VW Beetles of the time made 40 horses.)
In the United States, the price in 1960 for a 600 Jolly -- $1,905 -- would have bought a compact sedan like a Ford Falcon or Plymouth Valiant. Some Jollys were also made from the Fiat 600 Multipla, a kind of mini-minivan; these had a rear-facing third seat that was also made of wicker.
Turning a Fiat 500 or 600 into a Jolly required quite a bit of hand fabrication by Ghia's craftsmen, who cut away the roof and installed an intricate web of steel tubing to reinforce the topless body, leaving some of it exposed as decorative trim. Seams were filled with lead, adding weight to cars that were already underpowered.
Facts and folklore about the Jolly and other beach cars have been gathered on a Web site, coolbeachcars.com, by Don Rich, a collector and Jolly enthusiast in Nellysford, Va.
Mr. Rich bought a Jolly 20 years ago at his wife's urging. After restoring the car, he sold it before moving from Florida -- and the buyer, he says, turned out to be a niece of Agnelli. Mr. Rich's Jolly inspired Mr. Inglis, his neighbor in Florida, to buy one. Mr. Inglis later found and bought one of the Renault versions.
Not all Jollys stayed by the seashore. President Lyndon B. Johnson had one at his Texas ranch. And on Catalina Island, off the coast of Los Angeles, a small fleet of Jollys served as taxis into the early 1960s. Some of those cars eventually landed in Newport Beach and on islands in the area.
''Some residents on Balboa and Lido wanted something more fun than the golf carts people use to get around,'' said Theo Sahli, whose restoration shop in nearby Costa Mesa specializes in classic exotics like Ferraris and microcars like the Jolly.
''You can't look at a Jolly and not smile,'' Mr. Sahli said. ''We've restored 17, including Renaults.''
For many years, a group of Jollys drove in the annual Balboa Island parade, but the man who used to round them up, Scott Sarkisian, said many of his fellow owners ended up selling their cars, succumbing to the temptation of high-dollar offers.
The Jolly inspired imitators, including the Shellette, created in the late 1960s by Giovanni Michelotti, an Italian designer who also styled Triumph sports cars. Based on parts from Fiat's rear-engine 850 coupe and Spider models, the Shellette was also an open car without doors, and with wicker seats and a canvas top. The Shellette lacked the Jolly's cheerful character, however, and of the 80 built only a handful are believed to still exist.
Some beach cars trace their roots to the military. Catering to a niche market for island resort rental fleets, in 1959 Jeep introduced an export model called the Gala. Based on the 2-wheel-drive Jeep DJ-3, the Gala came in pastel shades of pink, blue or green with matching candy-stripe upholstery and a fringed surrey top. A resort in Acapulco, Mexico, Las Brisas, used a fleet of the cheery Jeeps to carry guests.
Jeep also marketed the vehicle with a new name, the Surrey, to retail customers in the United States. It cost $1,700 in 1960 and, looking like a car for Malibu Barbie, seems the antithesis of the macho off-road image that the brand cultivates today.
In 1964, a little buggy concocted by the British Motor Corporation as a light reconnaissance vehicle for the British military, but rejected for that role, went into production as the civilian Mini Moke. The company, which built the Austin Mini, used that car's 850-cubic-centimeter 4-cylinder engine, 10-inch wheels and other drivetrain parts in a sparse body devoid of doors, with two or four seats and a canvas top.
Most of the 14,000 Mokes built in England through 1967 were exported, and they were popular at island resorts. The sun-baked singer Jimmy Buffett referenced the Moke in ''Autour du Rocher,'' his ode to partying on St. Bart's.
The Moke's tooling was sent to Australia, where production of a reinforced version continued until 1981, and then to Portugal, where the buggies were made until 1993. British Mokes, as well as some from Australia, were sold into the 1970s in the United States.
About 10 years ago, Andrew O'Rourke of Bronxville, N.Y., bought a 1967 Moke from the family of a Jaguar dealer. Having been driven just 15 miles, it was essentially new. Mr. O'Rourke, a former television reporter and the son of a prominent New York State politician, had previously bought a Moke from Alistair Cooke, the ''Masterpiece Theater'' host, who had a home near Mr. O'Rourke's summer place in Sag Harbor on Long Island.
''He kept the Moke on his 50-foot sloop,'' said Mr. O'Rourke, who also had a Jolly until he sold it 10 years ago.
Similar in concept to the Mini Moke, but lacking its charm, the Citroën Méhari was a plastic-bodied utilitarian buckboard. This French model, too, was based on the components of a humble economy car, with a 2-cylinder air-cooled engine to propel its slight 1,300 pounds. The Méhari was imported to the United States for only one year, in 1970. Only about 200 were originally sold here, so they're fairly rare.
Americans are more likely to remember a rust-prone four-door convertible truckette from Volkswagen called the Thing, offered in 1973-74. The Thing began as a military vehicle known as the Type 181, which VW supplied to NATO forces in Europe.
In Mexico, where VW also built the vehicle and called it the Safari, Las Brisas found it an ideal replacement for its aging fleet of Jeep Galas. The resort had the VWs painted in a blue-and-white theme with a surrey top and striped upholstery. VW offered a run of 200 similar Things in the United States that it called the Acapulco Edition. Mr. O'Rourke owns two of these, which were used for many years at the Portland Open golf tournament in Oregon.
''I have photos of Pat Summerall driving Lee Trevino and Jack Nicklaus in them,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SURF CITY, HERE THEY COME: Clockwise from top, Jim Inglis's Fiat 600 Jolly
Mechanix Illustrated celebrated ''beach buggies'' in 1960
a Jolly that sold this year for $110,000
a '69 Shellette. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARC SEROTA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
DARIN SCHNABEL/RM AUCTIONS
BONHAMS) (AU1)
RANCH WAGON: Above, Lyndon B. Johnson driving a Jolly with his daughter Luci and grandson Patrick at the LBJ Ranch in Texas
left, a Renault beach car. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JIM INGLIS) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (78%); BEACHES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%); AUTOMOTIVE BODY & INTERIOR REPAIR SHOPS (50%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (85%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



191 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1405 words

HEADLINE: The Work Behind Child's Play

BYLINE: By CAROL KINO

 BODY:
Remember that glorious moment at the top of a long, narrow metal slide, when you screwed up the courage to zoom into oblivion? Or, even better, the chance to escape into a tunnel, safe from the prying eyes of parents?
Risky contraptions and hiding places are on the wane in the safety-conscious playgrounds of today, but they've been rediscovered in an exhibition called ''The Playground Project,'' at the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh through Aug. 11. Mounted on plywood panels that suggest the walls of an impromptu recreation room, this jam-packed show uses photographs, film, books, architectural plans and models to illuminate the golden decades after World War II, when cities around the world felt the need to build new play areas in parks and on streets.
Artists and architects buoyed by the work of child psychologists like Bruno Bettelheim and Jean Piaget reinvented the playground's look and dreamed up new equipment. Once regarded as a holding area where children could be controlled and contained, by the 1960s the playground was seen as a zone for creative exploration and cognitive development. 
The show begins in the 1940s with the Danish landscape architect Carl Theodor Sorensen, who advanced the radical notion that children were happiest when playing with junk, and ends after the 1970s Do-It-Yourself playground building movement, where community organizers helped parents build playgrounds, swept America. Along the way, it also examines the contributions of well-known avant-gardists like M. Paul Friedberg and Richard Dattner, and lesser-known lights like Joseph Brown, a Princeton professor who developed play equipment made with ropes.
Like a museum, the playground is ''a domain in which public opinions about education, exploration, aesthetics, and public space abound,'' wrote Gabriela Burkhalter, the show's curator, in an essay to be published later this year in the catalog for the 2013 Carnegie International, the museum's contemporary-art survey in the fall.
The show is something of a warm-up for the International itself, which embraces play as one of its themes. ''A playground is a place where you explore things,'' said Daniel Baumann, one of the survey's three curators, who is also Ms. Burkhalter's husband. ''And that's also what a museum should be.'' (When the International opens on Oct. 5, ''The Playground Project'' will reopen along with it, expanded with playground-related artworks as well as projects produced by the museum's Summer Camps program.)
Ms. Burkhalter has used early-20th-century Pittsburgh photographs to demonstrate the public playground's roots in the 19th century, when forerunners like the sand garden and the kindergarten -- literally a garden for children -- first appeared in Berlin. The concept soon spread to America, often viewed as a way to keep urban youth occupied while their parents toiled in factories. ''Cities had become so crowded,'' she said in an interview, ''and some philanthropists began to think about places where they could be safe and have some education. That's how it started.''
By the 1930s, public playgrounds had become fairly common in the developed world, but also formulaic. As well as a sandbox, ''you had the slide, you had the jungle gym and maybe a wading pool,'' Ms. Burkhalter said. ''It was all on asphalt, and it was fenced in,'' she added, with the bywords being ''cheap'' and ''indestructible.''
Change arrived in 1943, when Sorensen built his first skrammellegeplads, or ''junk playground,'' in a housing development in Emdrup, a Copenhagen suburb, during the German occupation. Having designed many playgrounds already, he had noted in the 1930s that children routinely decamped for nearby construction sites. His new creation provided bricks and other construction materials and encouraged them to explore and create -- forts, tree houses, even fires -- on an empty lot supervised by a play leader, with no parents allowed. (The show includes a 1966 Danish television segment that demonstrates a skrammellegeplads in action.)
Soon after the war, Lady Allen of Hurtwood, a British pacifist and educator, brought the idea to England, hoping to mold what she called ''peace-loving citizens,'' by letting children join in postwar reconstruction by building things at places that had been bombed. The first was founded in 1948 on the site of a ruined church in the London district of Camberwell, and many of the rest, as captured in the photographs shown at the museum, don't look much different from the rubble they replaced. To appease critics, Lady Allen re-branded them ''adventure playgrounds'' in the 1950s.
The concept never put down strong American roots. Favored instead was the so-called landscape playground, a reimagining of recreational areas as sculptural environments. Part of the show is devoted to the work of Aldo van Eyck, a Dutch urban planner charged with creating play areas throughout Amsterdam after the war, eventually building more than 700. He placed them in surprising locales, like alleyways, and made each one site specific, with sandboxes, climbing bars and paving stones arranged in geometric compositions that suggest a de Stijl painting.
The show also includes models by the sculptor Isamu Noguchi, who began dreaming up transformative playground ideas for New York City in 1933. (His most ambitious, designed in the early 1960s with the architect Louis Kahn, would have re-sculptured eight acres of Riverside Park into a hilly environment that suggested a lunar landscape.) All were shot down by his nemesis Robert Moses, and Noguchi's first playscape, represented here by a group of color photographs, wasn't constructed until the mid-'60s in Yokohama, Japan.
Yet his ideal of a variegated topography inspired others like Mr. Friedberg, who filled his groundbreaking 1965 playground at the Jacob Riis Houses on the Lower East Side of Manhattan with granite igloos and tunnels and wooden mazes, creating an urban wonderland where one experience led into the next. ''These are not playgrounds, they are play environments,'' Mr. Friedberg said in an interview about his work, shown here in a slide show and photographs, meant ''to sustain and promote the idea of play, which is a very important part of anyone's development.''
Mr. Dattner's first playground, raised in 1967 in Central Park next to Tavern on the Green, was also filled with mounds, pyramids and tunnels, but added a pint-size amphitheater, a splash pool, a play leader and a lot of slotted panels that children could use to make things. Although reconstructions of the panels are on view here, the playground itself has since been retrofitted with railings, access for the disabled and no moving parts. But at the museum you can see another of Mr. Dattner's Central Park playgrounds as it used to be in the zany music video ''Sisters and Brothers'' (lifted from Marlo Thomas's 1974 ''Free to Be You and Me'' television special), which features the Afro'd members of the Voices of East Harlem singing as they gambol throughout the space.
By the 1980s, the playground revolution was fizzling out, squelched by the triple whammy of economics, new safety regulations and increasing litigiousness, with visionary designs replaced by mass-produced play equipment from a catalog, Mr. Dattner said.
''If a kid fell down in my playground in the 1960s,'' he added, ''their mother or father would kiss the boo-boo. If it had happened 20 years later, they would pick up the phone and call their lawyer.'' But the idea of play hasn't been forgotten at the Carnegie, which recently put up a Lozziwurm, a twisting tubular plastic play structure designed by the Swiss sculptor Yvan Pestalozzi in 1972 that is still being produced. (Mr. Baumann first encountered one as a child in Burgdorf, Switzerland, at a nearby shopping mall.)
Placed by the entrance, near works by Richard Serra and Henry Moore, the serpentine orange, yellow and red Lozziwurm has been an irresistible magnet. While ''the first impression is this could be another sculpture,'' said Marilyn Russell, the museum's curator of education, ''kids just automatically know what to do with it.''
Mr. Baumann said he hopes it may lure them into the galleries, too. ''It is a tube, it's colorful, and you want to go in,'' he said. ''Once you go inside, it's slightly uncanny because you dive into the unknown.'' Just like the most exciting art, he added, ''you don't know where it takes you.''

CORRECTION-DATE: July 14, 2013

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a picture caption last Sunday with an article about ''The Playground Project,'' an exhibition at the Carnegie Museum of Art in Pittsburgh that looks at the evolution of playgrounds, misidentified the country in which a playground, shown in 1952, is situated. It is Denmark, not Sweden.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Playgrounds of the past: Top, at the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh, a Lozziwurm, designed in 1972. Second row, from left, one of Richard Dattner's designs in Central Park, the 1972 Ancient Play Garden near the Metropolitan Museum
Joseph Brown's Whale Yard equipment
and a ''junk playground'' in Emdrup, Sweden, in 1952. Above, the Carnegie Museum's ''Playground Project'' show. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSH FRANZOS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RICHARD DATTNER
UNIVERSITY OF KNOXVILLE, TENNESSEE
THE ROYAL LIBRARY, COPENHAGEN
 TOM LITTLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (76%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL CONSTRUCTION (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (74%); WORLD WAR II (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (70%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



192 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Many Paths Remain for a Case Against SAC Capital Advisors

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Criminal and civil authorities continue to press a long-running investigation into the hedge fund and Steven A. Cohen, who runs it. 

 BODY:
Of the multiple threads the government has pursued in its long-running insider trading investigation of Steven A. Cohen and his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, the case against Mathew Martoma had been seen as the most promising.
Federal authorities repeatedly sought the cooperation of Mr. Martoma, a former employee at SAC, in helping to build a case against Mr. Cohen related to suspicious trading in two drug stocks in July 2008.
 Yet Mr. Martoma has persistently rebuffed the government's overtures, including as recently as this spring, when the authorities met with his lawyers at the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, a person briefed on the meeting said.
After Mr. Martoma declined to implicate his onetime boss, authorities concluded that they lacked sufficient evidence to file a criminal case against Mr. Cohen related to the drug-stock trades before a five-year legal deadline expires in mid-July, according to people with direct knowledge of the investigation. 
Mr. Cohen and SAC are hardly out of the woods, however. People close to Mr. Cohen, reluctant to declare victory, note that criminal and civil authorities are still weighing several possibilities as they continue to press their case.
For one, federal prosecutors are considering criminal charges against SAC related to the drug-stock trades and other activity, the people with direct knowledge of the inquiry said. The Securities and Exchange Commission is contemplating a civil lawsuit against Mr. Cohen. And the Federal Bureau of Investigation - which has agents in New York, Connecticut and Boston scrutinizing SAC - continues to examine more recent trading at the fund.
The authorities, for example, have looked at SAC trading in the shares of Gymboree, the children's clothing store, the people said. They also face an August deadline to file charges related to trading in Dell shares, a case that produced two indictments of onetime SAC employees, one of whom pleaded guilty.
Prosecutors could even try to get around the five-year legal deadline in the drug-stock trades by including them as part of a broader criminal conspiracy case against Mr. Cohen. Including Mr. Martoma, nine former SAC employees have been tied to insider trading while at the firm; four have pleaded guilty to criminal charges.
Mr. Cohen, 57, has not been accused of any wrongdoing and has told his investors that he has behaved appropriately at all times.
The protracted investigation has angered Mr. Cohen, who has come to believe that the government is obsessed with trying to lock him up and shut down his business, say people close to him.
Based in Stamford, Conn., SAC is one of the world's largest and most influential hedge funds, with about 1,000 employees and $15 billion in assets at the beginning of the year. It has one of the best investment track records on Wall Street, posting nearly 30 percent annual returns, on average, over two decades.
While many consider Mr. Cohen a preternaturally gifted trader, skeptics have long questioned the legitimacy of his returns. Persistent whispers of insider trading inside SAC have dogged the fund, and in recent years, as numerous employees and alumni have become ensnared in the government's insider trading crackdown, those whispers have grown louder.
Mr. Cohen, a native of Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, has also become a subject of fascination for his mammoth spending habits. He lives with his family in a 35,000-square-foot home in Greenwich, Conn. Last fall, he bought Picasso's "Le Rêve" for $155 million, adding to an art collection that has included works by Andy Warhol and Van Gogh.
He also collects real estate. In March, Mr. Cohen reached a deal to pay $60 million for an oceanfront property in East Hampton, down the road from one that he already owns. He recently closed on a $23.4 million apartment in the West Village in Manhattan, near a building for which he paid $38.8 million last year. And he recently put up for sale his duplex apartment in the Bloomberg Tower on the East Side, asking $115 million.
Amid the swirl of personal spending and the intensifying government investigation, Mr. Cohen's investors have pulled billions of dollars from his fund in recent months. SAC, however, is better insulated from the ill effects of investor withdrawals than rivals because Mr. Cohen's fortune accounts for roughly $8 billion, or more than half the fund.
At the same time, federal prosecutors have not slowed down. In May, they issued subpoenas to Mr. Cohen and five of his senior executives.
Mr. Cohen declined to testify, exercising his constitutional right against self-incrimination, according to the people with direct knowledge of the inquiry. But the five executives, including Thomas J. Conheeney, the firm's president, and Steven Kessler, its chief compliance officer, met with prosecutors in recent weeks and answered questions about the firm's compliance procedures and trading practices.
If prosecutors continue to seek their cooperation, the executives are expected to testify before a grand jury, one of the people said.
In interviewing Mr. Cohen's senior executives, prosecutors are gathering evidence for a possible indictment against SAC under the theory of corporate criminal liability, a move that would effectively destroy the fund.
Under that theory, the government can impute criminal liability to a company based on the benefit it received from an employee's acts that the authorities say are criminal. The government is loath to bring criminal charges against a corporate entity, fearing job losses and economic damage, but will pursue a case if it believes that the wrongdoing at the company is pervasive or condoned by management.
Representatives for the F.B.I. in New York and the United States attorney's office in Manhattan declined to comment. An SAC spokesman also declined to comment.
Mr. Cohen had thought that he had put the most serious of his legal problems behind him in March when SAC agreed to pay a record $616 million penalty to the commission to resolve two insider-trading civil actions, the people close to him said.
The larger of the two settlements, for $602 million, related to Mr. Martoma's trades. The government said Mr. Martoma had caused SAC to sell nearly $1 billion in shares of the drug makers Elan and Wyeth after obtaining secret data from a doctor about clinical trials for a drug being developed by the companies. Those trades allowed SAC to gain profits and avoid losses totaling $276 million, the authorities said.
When the government arrested Mr. Martoma last November, they appeared to be closing in on Mr. Cohen. The complaint highlighted a 20-minute phone call that Mr. Martoma had with Mr. Cohen the day before SAC began dumping its holdings. Prosecutors did not claim that Mr. Martoma told Mr. Cohen about the confidential information.
But what did the two men discuss? Because there is no recording of the call, only Mr. Martoma and Mr. Cohen know the conversation's contents.
Last year, when Mr. Cohen sat for a civil deposition in the S.E.C. case, he told investigators that Mr. Martoma said he was no longer comfortable with the position.
Prosecutors possess powerful evidence against Mr. Martoma, having secured the testimony of the doctor who is said to have leaked the drug-trial data to SAC. But there appears to be no direct evidence that Mr. Cohen knew of the secret information when he directed the Elan and Wyeth sales.
Additional evidence could yet surface in the Martoma case. Prosecutors have indicated that they would file an amended indictment in the case by the end of July, which could add new details, charges or defendants.
And even without Mr. Cohen's facing criminal charges tied to Mr. Martoma, he has drawn scrutiny from the S.E.C. The commission is aiming to build a civil insider trading lawsuit against Mr. Cohen, and would have a lower burden for proving its case than criminal authorities.
It could also bring an action against Mr. Cohen for failing to supervise his employees, something akin to the civil lawsuit that regulators brought last month against Jon S. Corzine related to his control of the collapsed brokerage firm MF Global.
The commission could seek to impose additional financial penalties on Mr. Cohen, as well as a ban from the securities industry.
An S.E.C. spokesman declined to comment. But earlier this year, a senior S.E.C. official expressly noted the possibility of a case against Mr. Cohen.
When the commission announced the record civil penalties paid by SAC, George S. Canellos, now its co-head of enforcement, said that the settlement did not "preclude the future filing of additional charges against any person, including Steve Cohen."

        
Hedge Fund, Under Fire, Braces for Withdrawals
        
Judge Is Skeptical of S.E.C. Deal With Hedge Fund

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (93%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LITIGATION (75%); EVIDENCE (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Cohen, Steven A; Connecticut; Federal Bureau of Investigation; Gymboree; Hedge Funds; Insider Trading; Manhattan (NYC); Martoma, Mathew; SAC Capital Advisors; Securities and Exchange Commission; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Bureau of Investigation; Gymboree; SAC Capital Advisors; Securities and Exchange Commission

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (94%) Cohen, Steven A; Martoma, Mathew

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Connecticut; Manhattan (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



193 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 7, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: Thomson Reuters to Suspend Early Peeks at Key Index

BYLINE: PETER LATTMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Yielding to pressure from New York&#8217;s attorney general, Thomson Reuters is expected to suspend the early release of a closely watched consumer confidence index, which it has delivered two seconds in advance to clients willing to pay extra. 

 BODY:
Over the last several years, an exclusive group of investors has paid a steep premium to receive the results of a closely watched economic survey a full two seconds before its broader release. Those two seconds can mean millions of dollars in profits for the investors, who practice a computer-driven strategy called high-frequency trading.
On Monday, the company providing these investors with that lucrative edge, Thomson Reuters, is expected to announce that it will suspend the practice, yielding to pressure from the New York attorney general, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. 
Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general, and his staff have been investigating the unusual arrangement that Thomson Reuters has with the University of Michigan. On two Fridays a month at 10 a.m. Eastern time, the widely cited and often market-moving economic survey known as the consumer confidence index is posted by the university on a Web site.
Thomson Reuters pays the university at least $1 million a year to distribute that data early to its money management customers on an exclusive basis. The company offers clients of its news service the opportunity to pay to receive the information on a conference call at 9:55 a.m.
But an elite group of about a dozen clients, which includes some of the world's most powerful money managers, pays Thomson Reuters an additional fee to receive it at 9:54:58 - two seconds before everyone else. Some of the clients pay the company more than $6,000 a month for this early release.
The company packages the information for these clients in a format that allows their high-speed, computer-driven trading systems to exploit the data, making rapid-fire trades in stocks and futures before others gain access to it.
Mr. Schneiderman's investigation began in April after a former Thomson Reuters employee filed a whistle-blower complaint about the practice, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. The attorney general's investor protection bureau is specifically examining the 9:54:58 disclosure and, more broadly, whether preferential disclosure of data is a fair and appropriate business practice.
A spokesman for Thomson Reuters defended the practice and said the company was fully cooperating with the attorney general's review.
"Thomson Reuters strongly believes that news and information companies can legally distribute nongovernmental data and exclusive news through services provided to fee-paying subscribers," said the spokesman, Lemuel Brewster. "It is widely understood that news and information companies compete for exclusive news and differentiated content to help their customers make better informed trading and investment decisions."
Legal experts have said the tiered pricing arrangement Thomson Reuters has with its customers does not violate federal insider trading laws. As a nongovernment entity, the company can disseminate the information as it pleases, as long as it fully discloses the practice, they say. And trading on the early data release is also legal because no one is breaching any duty in leaking the information, as is the case in a classic insider trading crime when a company executive divulges corporate secrets.
But Mr. Schneiderman's office is exploring whether the advanced look at the consumer data is a violation of the Martin Act, a state securities-fraud law that gives the attorney general broad powers to pursue either criminal or civil actions against companies. The nearly century-old law does not require the government to show proof that a company intended to defraud anyone. It also allows investigators to seek an enormous amount of information from businesses.
Regardless of the legality of the practice, it has raised questions among state officials about fairness in the financial markets. Regulators are concerned that elite investors are being provided privileged access to important data, according to a person briefed on the matter. A mission of the attorney general's investor protection bureau, which is overseeing the investigation, is to help create a level playing field on Wall Street.
The controversy over the Thomson Reuters practice highlights the prevalence of high-speed trading in the nation's financial markets. More than half of all American stock trades are now executed by firms that rely on computer algorithms to execute thousands of orders a second. These traders can get an edge by obtaining market data even milliseconds before their rivals.
Most market data providers, including the major exchanges, now charge premiums for faster delivery of information. Regulators have been criticized for being slow to address this seismic change in the market, and are just now examining the issues surrounding the selective disclosure of data to people who pay a premium for it.
One piece of coveted data is the University of Michigan consumer confidence number, a survey that measures the country's opinion about the state of the economy. Investors consider it a bellwether of economic sentiment and a possible indicator of the direction of the stock market.
Mr. Schneiderman's investigation of Thomson Reuters evokes the investor-protection campaign waged a decade ago by a former attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, who aggressively wielded the Martin Act to change Wall Street practices that smacked of unfairness. He used the law, for example, to expose Merrill Lynch's hyping of Internet stocks, and then secured a global settlement involving 10 banks and $1.4 billion in fines.
It appears Mr. Schneiderman is using similar hardball tactics.
In response to the attorney general's inquiry, Thomson Reuters took the position that its tiered pricing system was legal, said the person briefed on the investigation. But Mr. Schneiderman's office demanded that Thomson Reuters suspend the selective disclosure of the survey at 9:54:58 to its highest-paying customers.
After Thomson Reuters resisted making the change, the attorney general's office threatened to seek a court order to stop it from prereleasing the data, this person said. Rather than wage a court battle, Thomson Reuters capitulated and agreed to temporarily suspend the practice for the duration of the investigation.
When Thomson Reuters releases the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey this Friday morning, no one will receive the information before 9:55.
Thomson Reuters has recently had other problems with its release of market-moving data. Last month, the company accidentally released a manufacturing survey from the Institute of Supply Management to a small group of traders milliseconds before others received it. Those traders used computer models to process and trade on the data.
A Thomson Reuters spokesman blamed the problem on a "clock synchronization issue." The Securities and Exchange Commission has opened an inquiry into the premature release.

        
Consortium in Canada Plans Rival Exchange to Curb Rapid Trading
        
Despite Risks, Brazil Courts the Millisecond Investor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); FUTURES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (68%); DEREGULATION (68%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%) High-Frequency and Flash Trading; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Schneiderman, Eric T; Thomson Reuters Corporation; University of Michigan; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Media; Top Headline 2

ORGANIZATION: Thomson Reuters Corporation; University of Michigan

PERSON: Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



194 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 459 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports due this week will include German trade and industrial production data for May (Monday); the International Monetary Fund's assessment of the global economy, and China's consumer and producer price inflation data for June (Tuesday); China's trade data for June (Wednesday); United States weekly initial jobless claims (Thursday); and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan United States consumer sentiment preliminary report for July, and United States producer prices for June (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies scheduled to report quarterly results include Alcoa (Monday); Chevron, Yum Brands and Family Dollar Stores (Wednesday); and JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the United States and the European Union are set to begin trade negotiations in Washington that are to run through Friday.
On Tuesday, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation board will meet to consider rules for enacting the Basel III international banking accords, and the Allen & Company meeting of media, technology and financial executives will begin in Sun Valley, Idaho, lasting through the week.
On Wednesday, Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew and Secretary of State John Kerry will lead two days of strategic and economic dialogue with a Chinese delegation headed by Vice Premier Wang Yang and State Councilor Yang Jiechi in Washington. Also Wednesday, minutes of the Federal Reserve's June 18-19 meeting are to be released, and the Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, will speak at a National Bureau of Economic Research conference in Boston. The Smithfield Foods chief, C. Larry Pope, is scheduled to testify on Wednesday before the Senate Agriculture Committee on the company's proposed purchase by Shuanghui International Holdings of China. And the Senate on Wednesday plans a procedural vote to see if it has enough support to advance a bill to extend the 3.4 percent interest rate for subsidized college loans for one year for seven million undergraduates.
OVERSEAS On Monday, Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank, will speak at a quarterly hearing of a European Parliament committee, and European finance ministers will meet to discuss Greece's progress on aid talks.
On Tuesday, BlackBerry will hold its annual meeting in Waterloo, Ontario.
On Wednesday, the European Union financial services commissioner, Michel Barnier, will present his proposal for a single euro-area authority to handle failing banks.
On Thursday, the Bank of Japan governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, will announce the bank's decision on monetary policy and the economic outlook, and Brazil's main union federations plan all-day nationwide protests to demand better working conditions and greater investment in health and education.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); EURO (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (88%); EURO ZONE (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INFLATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); STUDENT LOANS (76%); FOOD INDUSTRY (75%); HOLDING COMPANIES (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); BANK FAILURES (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); ALLEN & CO INC (69%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); ALCOA INC (57%); YUM! BRANDS INC (57%); FAMILY DOLLAR STORES INC (56%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (53%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (51%); BANK OF JAPAN (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); AAI (ASX) (57%); AA (NYSE) (57%); YUM (NYSE) (57%); FDO (NYSE) (56%); SFD (NYSE) (53%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (51%); BB (TSX) (51%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (69%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (69%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (57%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (57%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (57%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (56%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (56%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (53%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (53%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (69%); JACK LEW (69%); BEN BERNANKE (59%); C LARRY POPE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (69%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); BRAZIL (79%); GREECE (76%); CANADA (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



195 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Campaign Ad Cash Lures Buyers to Swing-State TV Stations

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
When Allbritton, the media company that owns Politico, put its seven television stations up for sale this spring, analysts quickly singled out one as the most attractive: WJLA, the company's ABC-affiliated station in Washington, D.C. It is the biggest of the bunch, the best known and, perhaps most important, a magnet for political spending.
WJLA took in $33 million in election-related and issue advocacy advertising last year. Only three stations in the United States earned more for political ads, and two of those were also in Washington. That's because the stations' signals reach citizens in a crucial battleground state, Virginia, as well as the political power brokers in the nation's capital. If Allbritton were to sell WJLA by itself, it could fetch $300 million.
That math helps explain why Gannett paid $1.5 billion for 20 stations last month, why the Tribune Company agreed last week to pay $2.7 billion for 19 stations -- and why more consolidation in the marketplace is forecast for later this year. 
The increasingly expensive elections that play out across the country every two years are making stations look like a smart investment, with the revenue piling up each time a candidate says, ''I approve this message.''
Despite an array of digital alternatives and a rapidly transforming television business, 30-second commercials remain one of the most valuable tools of campaigns and political action committees. As Leslie Moonves, the chief executive of the CBS Corporation, which owns 29 stations, memorably said last year, ''Super PACs may be bad for America, but they're very good for CBS.''
Next year's midterm elections will be a boon to stations as well, and ''2016 could be amazing,'' said Mark Fratrik, the chief economist for BIA/Kelsey, a media research firm and consultancy.
Station owners have come to dread what they call ''odd years,'' like 2013, when there is little political spending, and anticipate ''even years.'' For stations blessed to be in swing states, political ads routinely represent a third of their overall ad revenue in election years.
For instance, WBNS, the highest-rated station in Columbus, Ohio, grossed about $50 million in advertising last year, of which at least $20 million was attributed to campaign spending. Columbus is the nation's 32nd largest TV market.
Contrast that to the next biggest market, KSTU, the most popular station in Salt Lake City. Kantar Media CMAG estimates that KSTU brought in about $29 million in advertising last year.
On paper, these two stations are equals; WBNS came out far ahead because Columbus was in the middle of a hotly contested race between President Obama and Mitt Romney to win Ohio's 18 electoral votes.
Mr. Fratrik said that stations in Ohio enjoyed, on average, a 38 percent increase in total ad revenue last year, in large part because of political spending. The increases were more than 40 percent for some stations in Wisconsin, where a recall election for governor added to the political drama. One of the stations being bought by Tribune is up the road from Columbus in Cleveland. Another is in Milwaukee. Two others are in Virginia, and one is in Colorado.
As he talked up Tribune's acquisition to investors this week, Peter Liguori, Tribune's chief executive, made sure to mention the increased exposure to swing-state advertising.
Analysts say the surge in station consolidation this year has also been driven by low interest rates and by an enormous rise in retransmission fees for stations, which are the equivalent of per-subscriber fees for cable channels like ESPN and MTV. Some stations now earn 40 to 50 cents a month from each cable and satellite subscriber.
But those fees currently account for about 10 percent of station revenue, and even if they double in the next five years, as the research firm SNL Kagan predicts, advertising revenue will remain the most important part of the station business. Thus, political advertising is a lifeline, even if the sheer volume of ads sometimes makes viewers want to hurl the remotes at their sets.
''We get complaints from viewers,'' Michael J. Fiorile, the chief executive of WBNS's owner, the Dispatch Broadcast Group, acknowledged. ''The bigger complaints are from regular advertisers who really get pushed off the air.''
''Don't get me wrong,'' he added with a chuckle. ''It's a good problem for us to have.''
Dispatch, which is locally owned, is not up for sale, and Mr. Fiorile said his stations would survive without the every-other-year campaign ad bonanza. But owners of other stations have been able to command a premium, and maintain a healthy profit margin by virtue of their location in competitive states.
''There is no doubt that the prospect of higher political revenues for big four affiliates -- especially those with higher local news ratings -- makes those stations quite a bit more valuable than those without,'' said Robin Flynn, a senior analyst for SNL Kagan.
The spending comes not just from presidential campaigns, but from local and statewide races. Ms. Flynn's data shows that Los Angeles, in reliably blue California, beat out Washington as the top market for all political ad revenue last year, partly because of huge spending on ballot propositions.
Although the Obama campaign gained attention last year for its careful ad targeting, which sometimes resulted in effective but cheap ad buys on obscure cable channels, local newscasts remained one of the most desirable places for political ads. In Washington last fall, WJLA and another Washington station, WTTG, took the extreme step of adding extra half-hours of news temporarily to make room for more ads.
But anyone hoping for a commensurate increase in the size of local newsrooms would be sorely disappointed; staffing levels have risen only slightly. Salaries stayed stagnant last year, according to a Hofstra University professor, Bob Papper, who called the results of his annual survey ''lousy.''
The influx of ad spending has also left stations vulnerable to criticism that they are not doing nearly enough to fact-check all the ads they are profiting from. Timothy Karr, a senior director of strategy at Free Press, a public interest group, studied Cleveland, Milwaukee and four other local markets last August and September and found what he said was ''a near-complete station blackout on local reporting about the political ads they aired.'' Denver was the best of the six, he said, and even there, 2,880 ads from five PACs and outside groups were countered by just five fact-checking news segments.
''This profiteering may explain newsrooms' reluctance to investigate the sources of political ad spending, or to vet the ads they air for accuracy,'' Mr. Karr said. ''It's clear that they don't want to bite the hands that feed them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The studio of WBNS, a station that covers Columbus, Ohio, and grossed about $50 million in advertising last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADAM CAIRNS/THE COLUMBUS DISPATCH)
 Separate frames showing an evening of television fare -- punctuated by campaign ads -- in Columbus, Ohio, on Sept. 25, 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (77%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (76%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); VOTERS & VOTING (65%)

COMPANY: CBS CORP (84%)

TICKER: CBS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); LESLIE MOONVES (58%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (94%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



196 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Auctions Set for This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes Monday's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday. 
At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 0.04 percent. The rate on the six-month issue was 0.08 percent, and the rate on the four-week issue was 0.03 percent.
The following tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
MONDAY
Florida Department of Transportation, $206.7 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Florida, $101.5 million of Florida International University debt securities. Competitive.
TUESDAY
Miami, $182.7 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
Milwaukee, $61.9 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
WEDNESDAY
Crosby, Tex., Independent School District, $67.5 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
THURSDAY
Utah, $217 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Amarillo, Tex., Independent School District, $60 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. FirstSouthwest.
Austin, Tex., $370 million of water and wastewater system revenue refinancing bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
California Health Facilities Financing Authority, $634 million of revenue bonds. Morgan Stanley.
Colorado, $112.2 million of refinancing certificates of participation. Wells Fargo Securities.
Corpus Christi, Tex., $85 million of general obligation bonds. Frost Bank.
Dallas, $211.1 million of general obligation refinancing and improvement bonds. Ramirez.
Dallas, $409 million of airport revenue refinancing bonds. Loop Capital Markets.
Dallas, $62 million of general obligation refinancing bonds. Ramirez.
Denver, $700 million of airport system debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
El Paso Downtown Development Corporation, $60.8 million of debt securities. Morgan Stanley.
Greenwood, Tex., Independent School District, $51.5 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. Raymond James.
Illinois Toll Highway Authority, $425 million of toll highway revenue bonds. Goldman Sachs.
Judson, Tex., Independent School District, $100 million of unlimited tax school building bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Katy, Tex., Independent School District, $104 million of tax school building bonds. BOSC.
Los Angeles, $336.1 million of community college general obligation bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
Maryland Department of Housing and Community Development, $52.5 million of housing revenue bonds. RBC Capital Markets.
New York Mortgage Agency, $125.8 million of homeowner mortgage revenue bonds. Barclays Capital.
New York State Environmental Facilities Corporation, $200 million of revolving funds revenue bonds. Bank of America.
Roland, Calif., Unified School District, $50 million of general obligation bonds. George K. Baum.
Tarrant County, Tex., $71.7 million of hospital revenue bonds. J. P. Morgan Securities.
Tarrant County, Tex., Cultural Education Facilities Finance Corporation, $187.4 million of hospital debt securities. Bank of America.
Texas, $63.3 million of school building bonds. Southwest Securities.
Texas, $68.2 million of clean water revenue refinancing bonds. Piper Jaffray.
Vermont Municipal Bond Bank, $71 million of debt securities. Citigroup Global Markets.
Virginia Housing Development Authority, $90 million of mortgage bonds. Raymond James.
West Travis County, Tex., $176 million of revenue refinancing bonds. Bank of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (95%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); SCHOOL BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (78%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (74%); AIRPORT OPERATION (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (68%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%); HOSPITALS (60%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); CULLEN/FROST BANKERS INC (54%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (53%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (53%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FLORIDA INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITY (56%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); CFR (NYSE) (54%); PJC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); AMARILLO, TX, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (56%) TEXAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



197 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: Hypocrisy, Thy Name Is (Duh!) Washington

BYLINE: By DAVID M. SHRIBMAN. 
David M. Shribman is the executive editor of The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Pittsburgh Press and a former Washington bureau chief of The Boston Globe.

 BODY:
THIS TOWN Two Parties and a Funeral -- Plus Plenty of Valet Parking! -- in America's Gilded Capital
By Mark Leibovich 386 pages. Blue Rider Press. $27.95.
Of all the irritating things about Washington -- the phoniness, the showy cars, the utter inability of a metropolitan area of 6.9 million people to produce a single decent slice of pizza or a passable submarine sandwich with oil and not mayonnaise -- none is more infuriating than the local insider habit of referring to the place as ''this town,'' as in ''He's the most important power broker in this town'' or, more likely (and worse), ''The way to get ahead in this town is to seem not to be trying to get ahead.''
So when Mark Leibovich sketches a portrait of the nation's capital -- a phrase used only by people who don't live there -- and calls it ''This Town,'' you know he's got a sharp ear, and a sharp eye to accompany it. You also know that he's got the sharp knives out. 
Here it is, Washington in all its splendid, sordid glory: the pols, the pundits, the Porsches. Plus the hangers-on, the strivers, the image makers and the sellouts, all comprising what Mr. Leibovich calls ''a political herd that never dies or gets older, only jowlier, richer and more heavily made-up.''
He's an insider, Mr. Leibovich is, first a reporter at The Washington Post, now the chief national correspondent for The New York Times Magazine, yet he seems to wear those special glasses that allow you to X-ray the outside and see what's really going on. An unusual parlor trick that, particularly in light of the A-list insiders jammed into his acknowledgments, not a single one of whom could have pulled off this book, even though half of them will e-mail me and say they could. (Memo to all of you: Don't.)
He opens with an account of the 2008 funeral of the NBC Washington bureau chief and ''Meet the Press'' host Tim Russert, and as a quarter-century resident now in happy exile, I suppose I should stick to form and mention, hideously, that we -- Tim and I -- came to Washington at the same time and were friends, although mostly because I had a wife from Buffalo, and he delighted in teasing her about her bowling. The people at this funeral (and as I recall, this was an invitation-only rite) adhered to what Mr. Leibovich calls ''the distinctive code of posture at the fancy-pants funeral: head bowed, conspicuously biting his lips, squinting extra hard for the full telegenic grief effect.''
The book is already generating buzz over Mr. Leibovich's account of White House efforts to shape a profile in The New York Times of the first friend Valerie Jarrett and the administration's apparent push to encourage Capitol reporters to disparage the conservative stalwart Representative Darrell Issa, Republican of California.
Start to finish, this is a brilliant portrait -- pointillist, you might say, or modern realist. So brilliant that once it lands on a front table at the Politics & Prose Bookstore on upper Connecticut Avenue, Mr. Leibovich will never be able to have lunch in This Town again, not that there is a respectable nonexpense-account lunch to be had in those precincts.
That said, this is a different Washington from the one I departed from a decade ago (Pittsburgh: what a relief!) and surely a different one from the era when, among the Washington royalty, only Alsop (and not Reston, Broder, Kraft, Evans or Novak) required a first name, and only because there were two of them (Stewart and Joseph).
The partisanship is worse, in part because the parties are different, with no liberal wing to the Republicans and hardly a conservative wing to the Democrats. And the rhetoric is mean, in part because it is less elegant.
All of which raises a separate point: Many of the Washington monuments most worthy of attention and praise, like the three Davids of capital journalism (Espo of The Associated Press, Rogers of Politico and Wessel of The Wall Street Journal), aren't featured in this book and would be mortified beyond words if they were. They're not at celebrity parties but at their battle stations, notebooks in hand. Nor is there a respectful bow, much deserved, to the thousands of unknown, selfless, deeply skilled bureaucrats who, since the Reagan years, have been pilloried but who, since the Franklin D. Roosevelt years, have made the country, or at least parts of its government, work.
In the old days, Washington -- then as now a place where ''disproportionate numbers of residents lie about reading The Economist'' -- was pretty much a bar where everyone knew your name, or in the case of John Paul Hammerschmidt, a former congressman from Arkansas, all three of them. Now it's far less personal -- but the personal matters far more.
So do personalities, which is why the book that Mr. Leibovich's seems patterned after is Lytton Strachey's 1918 ''Eminent Victorians,'' a classic of its time and all time, and the book it most resembles is ''The Columnist,'' Jeffrey Frank's remorselessly hilarious work of fiction from 2001. As such, it is a wiseguy's tour d'horizon of an entire city trying out for the role of Washington wise man.
So, striding self-importantly through these pages are the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid (''harshly judgmental of fat people''); Senator Tom Coburn, an Oklahoma Republican (''a blister on the leadership of both chambers, or sometimes something more dangerous''); Senator Chuck Schumer, Democrat of New York (''lens-happy, even by senatorial standards''); the lobbyist and former Mississippi governor Haley Barbour (''looks like a grown version of Spanky from the Little Rascals''); the former House minority leader Richard Gephardt (''whose willingness to reverse long-held positions in the service of paying clients was egregious even by D.C.'s standards''); and the modern super-flack Kurt Bardella (possessed of ''a frantic vulnerability and desperation'').
And though much of this volume is a sendup of the capital of kissing up, there are some important insights tucked in among the barbs. Such as this: ''Though Barack Obama won the 2008 election, Hillary Clinton won Obama's first term.'' And this: The political culture is full of ''people who've been around the business forever, who never go away and can't be killed.'' And this one, about Representative Paul D. Ryan, that must have befuddled the publisher's fact checkers: ''Like most members of Congress with half a brain, Ryan had a pretty low opinion of many of his colleagues and had been thinking of how to escape.''
So here's to all the big mouths, big egos, big shots, big machers and big jerks. In case you're wondering, Mark Leibovich is on to every one of you, and his portrayal of ''This Town'' is spot on. Because Mr. Leibovich, perhaps alone among capital insiders, has realized that Washington, once an inside joke, now looks more and more like a bad joke.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Mark Leibovich (PHOTOGRAPH BY RALPH ALSWANG) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (73%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: TIM RUSSERT (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



198 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: In Congress, Gridlock and Harsh Consequences

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Despite finger-pointing news conferences and radio addresses by both parties on Capitol Hill, Congress let interest rates double last week on federally subsidized student loans. Eleven days earlier, a coalition of Democrats and conservative Republicans in the House scuttled the latest attempt at a farm bill, dooming for now disaster assistance for livestock producers still affected by last year's drought.
Congress returns on Monday with a major overhaul of immigration pending in the House, the farm bill lying in a heap and new fiscal deadlines looming when the government runs out of spending authority on Sept. 30 and reaches its borrowing limit shortly thereafter. The Postal Service, meanwhile, continues to lose millions of dollars every day as a measure to rescue the agency founders in the House.
There is no guarantee that any of these issues will be dealt with. 
Even in some of the worst years of partisan gridlock, a deadline has meant something to Congress -- until 2013. Drop-dead dates have come and gone this year, causing real-world consequences. On Jan. 1, tax rates went up not only for affluent families, but also for virtually all workers when lawmakers looked the other way and let a payroll tax cut expire. On March 1, after leaders from both parties declared that automatic, across-the-board spending cuts would never happen, they happened anyway because of inaction.
''One hundred percent of Congress opposed it, and we're doing it,'' said Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont. ''That's a sign of a dysfunctional institution.''
At this time in 2011, Congress had passed 23 laws on the way toward the lowest total since those numbers began being tracked in 1948. This year, 15 have been passed so far.
Legislation favored by the left, like new gun-safety measures, has started in the Senate and has often foundered before it reached the House. Bills pushed by conservatives to restrict abortion and relax regulations to encourage oil and gas production have passed the House but have gone nowhere in the Senate.
Legislation that has reached President Obama's desk this year has often been small bore and ceremonial, like the authorization of a commemorative coin bill.
''Congress has always had this habit of going to the brink and then passing something, but in the last months, something has changed,'' said Justin Draeger, the president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators, which has been pressing for compromise on student loans. ''Recent examples of Congressional inaction have left us pessimistic. I'm not saying it's impossible, but it's not looking good.''
The 113th Congress still has a chance to pass the most significant overhaul of the nation's immigration laws since 1986, but for now, at least, it appears deadlocked. Even saying that lawmakers have passed 15 laws may be overstating it. The first two -- raising the Federal Emergency Management Agency's borrowing authority after Hurricane Sandy and approving a broader hurricane-relief bill -- were supposed to be one bill, but they had to be split in two because House Republican leaders refused to put the full package up for a vote for fear of party divisions.
The third law raised the government's statutory borrowing limit and helped prod the Senate to pass a broad budget blueprint. But since the Senate passed its budget more than 100 days ago, Republicans have refused to allow House and Senate negotiators to try to reach a compromise budget for the coming fiscal year.
Another bill was signed into law on May 1 to keep air traffic control operations working because, on March 1, Congress failed to stop across-the-board spending cuts from hitting the Federal Aviation Administration.
One of the 15 laws of 2013 specifies ''the size of the precious-metal blank that will be used in the production of the National Baseball Hall of Fame commemorative coins.''
Sarah Binder, a George Washington University political scientist who tracks Congress, said, ''If I had a measure in front of me -- what do they do relative to what's on the nation's big agenda -- I'd have to say, 'Wow, this is a remarkably dysfunctional place.' ''
The upside of inaction is its impact on deficit spending. Total discretionary spending in the fiscal year that ends Sept. 30 will be about $70 billion below the previous year's -- the first such drop since fiscal 1996, another year of sharply divided government. In June, the federal government shed 5,000 jobs, according to jobs data released on Friday.
If Congress does not change course, nondefense spending at its annual discretion will reach 3 percent of the economy by 2018, a diminutive level not seen since 1962, when records began being tracked, Congressional budget aides said.
House leaders blame the Senate: House Republicans did pass a student loan bill that would have at least ameliorated the rise in interest rates. Conversely, Senate Democrats blame the House: The Senate has twice passed major farm legislation with broad bipartisan support, along with a postal overhaul bill, and at least it wants to go into formal negotiations on a budget.
At the same time, lawmakers in both parties fault the Obama administration for leaving Congress to its own devices.
''I wish we had a president who didn't make news when he just talks to a member of Congress,'' said Representative Tim Griffin, Republican of Arkansas.
The secretary of agriculture, Tom Vilsack, pushed back hard on that line. ''With all due respect to those who want to shift responsibility,'' he said, ''the responsibility here is clear.''
How significant these failures have been is a matter of debate in Washington. Many of Mr. Obama's dire warnings about the across-the-board spending cuts, known as sequestration, have failed to materialize. But more than 125,000 federal workers have been sent home without pay since March. Most of them were off work on Friday, a White House budget official said Sunday. And beginning this week, rolling furloughs will hit 650,000 civilian employees of the Defense Department. Marla Levenson, a civilian worker at Hanscom Air Force Base, in Bedford, Mass., said 2,000 employees at the base will be furloughed on Friday.
Laurie Vroman, 31, a single mother with three children in Latham, N.Y., is preparing for her furlough from the Army's Watervliet Arsenal in upstate New York, which will mean a $1,600 pay cut from her $37,000 salary.
''To be honest, I still have that glimmer of hope that things might turn around, that at the last minute they will come to their senses,'' Ms. Vroman said. ''I just wish there was a way around this, instead of punishing us for the errors they made on Capitol Hill.''
After last month's unexpected collapse of the farm bill in the House, lawmakers were left with a new deadline, Sept. 30, to reach a deal before a series of farm programs go out of business, dairy prices skyrocket and direct payments to commodity farmers disappear.
But Mr. Vilsack said the consequences of Congress's failure to pass a farm bill last year and this year were already real. A disaster-assistance program for livestock producers expired in October 2011. Since then, livestock producers hit by drought and rising feed costs have been liquidating and reducing herds to the point where American cattle stocks are at their lowest level since 1952.
In addition, dairy production is diminishing in the face of price and policy volatility. And in August, Brazil will get the green light to impose retaliatory tariffs on an array of American goods and services because Congress has not made the United States cotton program compliant with international trade law.
''The key here is for rural folks to say we've had enough of this,'' Mr. Vilsack said. ''Rural America deserves better than this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tom Vilsack, above, the agriculture secretary, says the failure to pass a farm bill has had repercussions. Representative Tim Griffin, top, partly blames the White House for a deadlock. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANNY JOHNSTON/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 MICHAEL REYNOLDS/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (72%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (72%); IMMIGRATION (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); COINS & COINAGE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); ABORTION (56%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (50%)

COMPANY: DRAEGERWERK AG & CO KGAA (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC5047 MEDICAL, DENTAL & HOSPITAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (53%)

PERSON: PETER WELCH (58%); TIM GRIFFIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); TOM VILSACK (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



199 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; POLITICAL ECONOMY; Pg. 

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: How Europe Can Muddle Through Its Crisis

BYLINE: By HUGO DIXON | REUTERS

 BODY:
Three years on, debate still rages over what is to blame for the euro crisis and what to do about it. Meanwhile, large parts of the euro zone are in a deep recession, and the talents of a generation of young people are being wasted.
In looking at what went wrong, some point to the profligacy of borrowers, while others stress the design flaws in the system. Yet others pin the blame on how the crisis has been managed. There are still others who think that the euro zone is a victim of a credit crunch that began in the United States. 
There is some truth in all those explanations. While the credit crunch did set off the crisis, it exposed a host of problems that had been masked by a decade of easy growth. Peripheral countries had grown uncompetitive as a result of rising wages. Often there was corruption and excessive debt, while anti-competitive practices that suited vested interests kept productivity low. Almost everywhere, governments ran unsustainably generous welfare states.
The crisis has also been managed appallingly. The zone took two years to let Greece restructure its debts. In the meantime, the banks in France, Germany and other countries that had financed Athens's profligacy were able to get much of their money out of the country. If the banks had been hit early, their governments would have had to bail them out. The discussion would then have been as much about foolish lenders as about lazy borrowers.
Among the other mistakes were the failure to clean up the zone's zombie banks and the fact that both fiscal and monetary policy were too tight. But troubled countries have also taken too long to root out vested interests and restore competitiveness.
Meanwhile, the two most popular solutions to the crisis are not really solutions at all. Euro skeptics want to break up the single currency. While the euro should not have been created when it was, the transitional economic and political costs of abandoning it would be enormous.
Euro enthusiasts, by contrast, pin their hopes on a full fiscal and political union to complement the monetary union. This is pie in the sky. Neither national politicians nor the people are willing to see much more power centralized in Brussels. There is good reason for that, too: The European Union is remote and only loosely accountable.
So what is the way forward? The answer is a muddle-through consisting of small doses of looser monetary and fiscal policy as well as a bit more integration, combined with large doses of change on both national and supranational levels.
To some extent, that is already happening. Only last week, the European Central Bank said it expected to keep its key interest rates at present or lower levels for an extended period. Given that the U.S. Federal Reserve is simultaneously indicating that it will tighten monetary policy as the U.S. economy continues to strengthen, the euro fell a bit versus the dollar. Further depreciation seems likely -- something that would take the edge off the euro zone recession.
The E.C.B. has scope to run a looser monetary policy because inflation is undershooting its target of just below 2 percent. But one should not exaggerate its room for maneuver.
Meanwhile, the European Commission has been easing up on the fiscal austerity it demands of nations. This year, it gave several governments an extra year to hit budget targets. Now it is saying that, in some cases, it will exclude investment spending from its deficit calculations for the purpose of deciding whether austerity is required. It should do the same for any money governments inject into their banks as part of the cleanup that is soon to get under way.
But, again, one should not exaggerate the scope for fiscal laxity. Many governments have unsustainable deficits or debts. They cannot put off the day of reckoning forever.
Finally, the euro zone has agreed to some fiscal integration. The main instrument is the &#x20ac;500 billion, or $640 billion, European Stability Mechanism. This can be used to bail out governments and, in the future, banks too. But it is a limited backstop that can only be used as a last resort.
As a result, the heavy lifting remains with national governments, which need to press on with overhauling their labor markets, product markets and welfare states to restore competitiveness and cut unemployment. That is as it should be, because those constitute the bulk of the underlying problems.
What about Germany and the other northern countries? Shouldn't they do more to help their peripheral brethren? The answer is yes, sort of.
A popular idea is that Berlin should do more to lift its economy by running a loose fiscal policy or encouraging higher pay for workers. Whatever the merits of that idea, two other policies could have a more direct benefit for peripheral economies. First, the European Union should extend the common market to services -- opening up, in particular, Germany's closed market to exports from elsewhere. Second, the European Union needs to spend more to combat youth unemployment. The &#x20ac;6 billion that leaders pledged to spend on that at their recent summit is, frankly, pathetic.
Even with such a raft of policies, it is not certain the euro zone can get out of its funk before the people rebel. But this is the probably the best game in town.
Hugo Dixon is editor at large of Reuters News.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO CRISIS (90%); EURO (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CURRENCIES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (80%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (52%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GREECE (79%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



200 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Tolerance Takes the High Road

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG VIEW

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Looking at the news from Washington a little more than a week ago, Americanophiles in Turkey were confused: Was the United States moving more toward openness and tolerance or back to more fundamentalism? Were Americans following Kemal Ataturk or Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan? The Supreme Court ruled, barely, for gay marriage with limits. The Senate cleared immigration reform amid warnings the measure would die in the House. Across the country, states were close to banning abortions.
The picture isn't as mixed as it appeared from Istanbul. The move to greater inclusiveness for gays, including acceptance of same-sex marriage, and a more liberal immigration policy are on a continuum; the only questions concern timing. Abortion is different. But the swing to the right on this issue is deceptive, reflecting temporary political realities and apt to produce a backlash. 
A divided Supreme Court, in a 5-to-4 decision, overturned the Defense of Marriage Act, which denied federal benefits to gay married couples. The states still sanction or prohibit the unions. To date, 13 states and the District of Columbia allow gay marriages. There remain thorny questions like what to do about federal spousal benefits for gay and lesbian couples living in states where same-sex marriage isn't legal.
Opponents claim that gay marriage proponents only have support in liberal states. Conservatives say they have the upper hand in most of the rest in what promise to be ferocious battles over the next few years; Oklahoma and Mississippi aren't fertile ground for same-sex marriages.
True and misleading. First, there are a number of states, including Illinois, Hawaii and Oregon, where approval should be relatively easy in the near term.
Public opinion continues to move in the direction of more tolerance. A recent Princeton Survey Research Associates poll for USA Today found that 55 percent of Americans said same-sex marriage should be accorded the same recognition as traditional marriage, a record high, compared with 40 percent who said it should not. The only groups opposed were Republicans and older Americans.
With the Supreme Court victory, says Chad Griffin, the president of the Human Rights Campaign, gay rights organizations are intensifying grassroots efforts in many states with an eye to victories in state legislatures or voter initiatives.
That's the focus, but he doesn't rule out other modes of pressure like calling for convention boycotts in states that outlaw same-sex marriages: ''Everything is on the table.'' And, he says, the legal battles will continue in search of a more sweeping Supreme Court ruling making this a constitutional right: ''Within five years we'll have equality in all states,'' he predicts.
On immigration, it's instructive to talk to strategists of the two parties: Republicans are squirming over the House leadership threat to kill the Senate-passed bill, and Democrats are unified and exuberant. Senate Democrats unanimously supported the bill, as did 30 percent of Republicans, including some conservatives like Jeff Flake of Arizona, Orrin G. Hatch of Utah and Marco Rubio of Florida.
A majority of the House almost certainly supports a measure that would resemble the Senate legislation. The rationale of the Republican leadership is that it needs a majority of the majority party. Try selling that to voters, especially in the Hispanic community.
The Senate bill, which probably involved more political concessions than necessary, is a step forward and commands support from an impressive coalition: the business community, especially the high-tech industry; labor, Hispanic and civil rights groups; top current and former Republican governors; many evangelicals; and even a few right-wingers.
House Republicans will feel the heat from this diverse crowd. This isn't a reprise of 2007; immigration reform won't die.
Abortion is different. Both proponents and opponents sincerely believe their position is the most humanitarian. Remarkably, over the past 40 years, public opinion on abortion has basically not changed, and it isn't likely to for the foreseeable future.
Most voters, few of whom decide principally on that single issue, believe abortion should be available and relatively rare. When either side stretches beyond that uncomfortable consensus, there usually is a counterreaction.
The dozens of Republican-dominated state legislatures that are cracking down on abortion run the risk of a backlash. The restrictions proposed, in places like Texas, would close most abortion clinics.
Ohio offers an interesting case study. The Republican governor, John R. Kasich, who is brimming with national ambitions, just signed a bill that makes it hard for family-planning groups to receive funding for preventive care; it also requires ultrasounds for anyone seeking an abortion, among other restrictions.
Mr. Kasich is pretty popular and a favorite to win re-election next year. Still, Democrats, who like to point out that Mr. Kasich signed the bill surrounded by a bunch of male politicians, claim that as a national candidate he would face the same heat for being insensitive to women's concerns that the Republican presidential nominee, Mitt Romney, encountered last year.
Politically, the United States remains a centrist country on economic and national security matters, sometimes tilting center-right. Health care these days favors conservatives; the decision by the administration of President Barack Obama last week to postpone the employer mandate, a centerpiece of the Affordable Care Act, plays into Republican charges that the whole measure is a mess.
Abortion is sui generis. Yet when it comes to issues of tolerance, like gay rights and immigration, the United States continues a progressive march.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (94%); GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); LIBERALISM (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (76%); COHABITATION (76%); ABORTION (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); IMMIGRATION (76%); BOYCOTTS (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (70%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%)

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISTANBUL, TURKEY (58%) HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); TURKEY (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013

 
