

1 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11; A NATION CHALLENGED: PORTRAITS OF GRIEF: THE VICTIMS

LENGTH: 3112 words

HEADLINE: From T-Shirts to Pink Bunnies to French Dishes, Sharing Life's Passions

BYLINE: The profiles of victims on this page were written by Nichole M. Christian, Robin Finn, Winnie Hu, Mireya Navarro, Iver Peterson and Barbara Stewart.

 BODY:
The official number of bodies found in the destruction of the World Trade Center stood at 314 yesterday, and the city medical examiner had identified 255. In all, 5,657 could be missing. Here are glimpses of some of those lives.

MYRNA MALDONADO
Years Later, Romance Again
 While growing up in a Rockland County children's home, Myrna Maldonado learned that Wilfredo Agosto liked her, because he threw rocks at her. Somehow his routine worked, and she liked him back, but for one reason or another, the two did not became a couple. ''I was a little crazy back then,'' Mr. Agosto said. ''She was a lot more mature than I was.''
 After leaving the home -- where they had ended up with their siblings because of dead or ill parents -- they each found partners, had children and barely heard about each other. It was not until last year, when Ms. Maldonado, 49 and single in the Bronx, was told by one of her sisters that Mr. Agosto was divorced and living in North Carolina with his three children, that they acted on what she called ''this-meant-to-be thing.''
 ''Hi Wilfredo. This is Myrna -- a blast from the past,'' he recalled hearing on his answering machine one day. He said, ''I knew my time finally came.'' In April, 40 years after they had first met, they were married. Ms. Maldonado initially planned to retire from her job as a systems designer for the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey at 1 World Trade Center and move down with him by next June, after the youngest of her two sons graduated from high school. Then she moved up the date to this December. ''She always said to me, 'Do it right and enjoy it all, because you don't know how much time you've got,' '' her new husband said.

CASEY CHO
Looking Out for Mother
 In the close-knit Korean-American family, the three sisters once talked about how none of them would ever want to die before their mother because of the devastation that it would cause her. But Casey Cho, the middle sister, disappeared from the 99th floor of 1 World Trade Center; now her youngest sister is trying to do what she thinks Ms. Cho would have wanted. ''I know Casey would want me to be strong,'' said Melissa Cho. ''Casey would try to make my mother get over it.''
 Casey Cho, 30, shopped, traveled, wrote short stories and poems and was planning a wedding to a graphics designer next year. But she also had a strong sense of family and supported her mother, who lost her husband to a stroke seven years ago, and her oldest sister, who quit her job after becoming pregnant. The three women, and Ms. Cho's 1-year-old nephew, lived together in New Jersey. Two months ago, Casey Cho got a job doing research in the environmental claims area for Marsh & McLennan. ''She was really happy,'' said Melissa Cho, 24. ''She never had any regrets in life.''

VANESSA LANGER
Setting the Agenda
 Tim Langer was hesitant about the baby his wife, Vanessa, wanted so badly. He gave her a golden retriever and a cat. But Vanessa, who adored her two younger brothers, James and Jackson, knew she was right. Shortly after their first anniversary, she was pregnant. By then, Tim was pleased, too. ''As time went on I was so in love,'' he said. ''It felt like we should have a family.''
 Vanessa Langer, 29, an office manager at a trade center company, usually set the agenda. She was ''fast and furious,'' said Mr. Langer. She did not walk -- she darted. She competed fiercely at computer games and the family football pool and screamed when the Yankees or Giants scored. ''Oh goodness,'' Mr. Langer said, and laughed. Before Vanessa, he used cruder expressions. She got him to stop that. Four months pregnant, she was having ''the easiest time of her life,'' he said.
 ''She gave me a book,'' he said. '' 'How to Pamper Your Pregnant Wife.' At night I had to go out and get Fig Newtons and Stella D'oros for her.''

PETER J. O'NEILL JR.
Like Father, Like Son
 Their firstborn's name was debated and decided, but the baby looked too much like his father to be a Brendan. He was a Peter J. O'Neill Jr. -- case closed -- his mother, Jeanne, decided when she caught her first glimpse. Peter O'Neill shared all of his father's interests and an extra virtue: enamored of firemen from the time he was 2, he joined his local volunteer crew in Amityville, N.Y., at 17.
 At home, he and his father were known as ''the twins.'' Handy and outdoorsy like dad, Peter Jr. knew his way around the family boat, the basement toolbox, the lawn mower; he also hunted duck and shot skeet, a bonding ritual for the O'Neill men. 
 He considered working alongside his father, a Wall Streeter-turned-painting contractor, but realized his business degree from Bentley College would get a better workout at his uncle's firm, Sandler O'Neill & Partners, at 2 World Trade Center. He was a natural there, too, and he and four friends were stockpiling their salaries in hopes of renting a Manhattan apartment. 
 Shoe-shopping on the Sunday before the attack, Peter, 21, told his mother he intended to take classes to become an emergency medical technician. When she asked why he wanted to do that rather than go to graduate school, he said, ''Because, Mom, I want to help people.''

CARMEN A. RIVERA
Wearing Many Hats
 On the night after the collapse of the twin towers, a co-worker of Carmen A. Rivera called her husband at the couple's Orange County, N.Y., home and left a message saying that the two women had been heading down the stairs from the 96th floor of 2 World Trade Center together but lost each other. ''She was O.K.,'' the co-worker said. ''She's alive somewhere.''
 Luis Rivera, a circulation manager for The New York Times, clung to that thought more than two weeks after the tragedy, and continued putting up posters and checking hospitals long after most others had resigned themselves to the loss of a loved one. Mrs. Rivera, 33, an assistant vice president for Fiduciary Trust Company International, worked full time and raised three children, but also found time for the gym and for night classes twice a week to get a master's degree in business, her husband said.
 The best mother, an inspirational friend, the ultimate woman, Mr. Rivera said, his wife was also a survivor. After the first plane hit, he said, she called him as she made her way down and told him she had left her purse behind but had grabbed a gold rosary her mother gave her.
 ''I know she made it out,'' he said. ''She's out there with amnesia or something.''

CHRISTOPHER W. WODENSHEK
A Long Drive Home
 Christopher W. Wodenshek would joke ruefully with his wife, Anne, about the demands of his work heading the electricity brokerage department at Cantor Fitzgerald. He had been there less than two years, after all, and he and his family had just moved from Connecticut to Ridgewood, N.J. 
 ''He'd say, 'I wish I could be at your tennis game, but I have this thing called work,' '' Mrs. Wodenshek said. ''He was very dedicated to it.''
 Yet with five young children, aged 2 to 9, Mr. Wodenshek, 35, also found ways to meet the demands of fatherhood. For example, Mrs. Wodenshek and her children summered on Martha's Vineyard, and Mr. Wodenshek would fly up on weekends. When work kept him from flying one Friday night for the end-of-vacation drive home last month, he drove up the next day and surprised Mrs. Wodenshek and the kids at the ferry.
 ''Then he took the kids and the big car and turned around and drove home with them, so I could have a peaceful drive home,'' Mrs. Wodenshek said. ''He did it for me.''

NANCY DIAZ
Preparing for Caribbean Trip
 Nancy Diaz loved to shop, but in her last days she was shopping with a purpose: Her daughter's birthday was coming up, and she was planning a trip to the Dominican Republic, where the girl lived with a greatgrandmother.
 Planning to fly to the Caribbean on Sept. 14, she started her workday three and a half hours early, at 7 a.m., the previous Tuesday so she could use the free afternoon to prepare for her trip, said her brother, Leonel Diaz. A kitchen assistant, she was tending to the breakfast buffet on the 107th floor of the north tower when the first plane hit, he said. 
 Ms. Diaz, 28, who lived with her sister in the Bronx and had moved to the United States from the Dominican Republic less than three years ago, liked her American life, particularly her job, her brother said. She had a boyfriend at work (he was off on Sept. 11), and she had just heard from her boss that she had promotion potential. ''They said 'You can be a manager. You're such a hard worker,' '' Mr. Diaz said. Now Ms. Diaz's daughter is preparing to come to New York visit her family.

JACQUELYN SANCHEZ
T-Shirts for C.J.
 When she called her mother as smoke rose around her on the 104th floor at 1 World Trade Center, Jacquelyn Sanchez said she was scared, that she could hardly breathe. Then she asked for her baby.
 ''She asked me 'Where's my baby?' '' her mother, Kim Coleman, said. ''I told her, 'I have your baby. Just get out of there.' ''
 At 23, Ms. Sanchez had a baby boy, Cedric Pitt Jr., a full-time job as compliance assistant with Cantor Fitzgerald and a strong desire to be a criminal defense lawyer. She attended John Jay College of Criminal Justice on weekends in pursuit of a bachelor's degree and planned to go to law school, her mother said. ''That was my child,'' Ms. Coleman said. ''She felt like she needed to save the world.''
 Ms. Sanchez lived with her son and boyfriend in Manhattan. She had planned a big first birthday celebration for her son, who turned 1 year old on Sept. 17. She had sent out 50 invitations, hired a clown, ordered a cake and had T-shirts made. When the day came, a smaller scale party took place in a hallway of her building with children from the neighborhood. There was no clown but they still got the T-shirts. They read: ''I partied at C.J.'s first birthday.''

WESLEY MERCER
A Veteran of Many Crises
 Wesley Mercer, the vice president of corporate security for Morgan Stanley, had a way of making people feel safe. A quiet man, he often got lost in a noisy crowd. But in times of crisis, he was always the one who took charge. He was helping to evacuate employees when the towers collapsed. ''It put a hole in my stomach,'' said his life partner, Bill Randolph. ''But I knew that's what he would have done.''
 At 70, Mr. Mercer had already weathered many of life's crises. A war veteran turned security officer, he was divorced and helped to raise two daughters. In later years, he lived with Mr. Randolph in the Hamilton Heights neighborhood in Harlem. Mr. Mercer dressed to inspire confidence, and even wore a sports jacket to walk the dog or shop at Pathmark. He did not own sneakers or jeans. 
 ''He always thought the way he carried himself was important,'' Mr. Randolph said.

ENRIQUE AND JOSE GOMEZ
Two of a Kind
 In life and in tragedy, Enrique and Jose Gomez were brothers determined to share every moment together. They worked together, slicing vegetables and cleaning seafood, in the kitchen of Windows on the World. At times they lived together. Even when they did not, Enrique 42, and Jose 44, both fathers of teenagers, always made time to dream together, envisioning themselves one day sitting in the stands at Yankee Stadium, just like the people on television, sharing beers and rooting for the boys in pinstripes. 
 For the Gomez family, there is peace in knowing that the brothers disappeared as they lived. ''So many people down there, they had no one,'' said Maglais Gomez, a niece. ''At least Enrique and Jose, they had each other to comfort.''
 And there is also this: On Sept. 11, Miguel and Ramone Gomez, who also worked in the kitchen with their older brothers, Enrique and Jose, had been scheduled to work, but were not there when the planes hit.

AMY O'DOHERTY
Promise of City Life
 To Amy O'Doherty, in her first job and apartment, Manhattan's streets emanated excitement and its air, promise -- of new friends and smart conversations over steaks at Morton's, and of unlimited success. Of what Geraldine Davie, her mother, called ''the largeness of life.''
 Ms. O'Doherty, 23, loved her job as a broker's assistant at Cantor Fitzgerald. ''Financing, trading, bonds,'' said Liz Gallello, a childhood friend. ''She wanted to take it -- the career, the city woman lifestyle -- as far as far it could go.''
 She was delighted with her five-story walk-up -- so small, said Ms. Davie, that ''Lilliputians should live in it.'' She filled it with dozens of framed photos of friends from Pelham, N.Y., where she grew up, and from camp, college and work. 
 ''She was soaking up that great New York style,'' said Ms. Davie. ''Picking up that New York language. She didn't know it but she was living her bliss.''

FRANK GARFI
In Brother's Footsteps
 After a dull time studying pharmacy, Frank Garfi, the son of an immigrant Brooklyn barber, found a job that suited him precisely. His first year as a trader at Cantor Fitzgerald was as fast-paced, demanding and as power-filled as an extreme sport. 
 ''He was ecstatic about it,'' said Vito Garfi, his brother, who also worked in finance. ''Coming in everyday and participating in a worldwide game. Trading millions of dollars. Constantly trying to fight all the other traders and gauge the market.''
 After a lifetime of looking up to his older brother, Frank Garfi, 28, was meeting him as an equal, said Sabina, his sister-in-law. Vito Garfi, 33, ''was big, was everything, to Frank,'' she said. ''He loved talking about stocks and companies and the economy and financing,'' she said of the younger brother. ''He loved that he could actually sit down with his brother at the table and talk about this stuff. He was in it, too, now.''

MICHAEL SAN PHILLIP
A Grandfather-to-Be
 On Memorial Day, Michael San Phillip got the news he had waited years to hear. His oldest daughter, married 11 years, was about to make him a grandfather for the first time. The discovery reduced him to tears, no small task for a man who had spent 34 years rising in the rough and tumble world of Wall Street finance. Though he had catapulted himself to vice president at Sandler O'Neill & Partners, an investment house on the 104th floor at 2 World Trade Center, the title he craved was that of grandfather. It was as big a moment as if he had won one of his beloved tennis and paddle matches, the ones he has for decades been so devoted to organizing. Folks in Ridgewood, N.J., had nicknamed him ''Captain Paddle.'' 
 ''He was really looking forward to seeing his first grandchild in December,'' said Jill Abbott, Mr. San Phillip's daughter. ''He had the hope in his heart that it would be a little boy, a little Mikey.''

DOUGLAS MacMILLAN CHERRY
Bengals All the Way
 The shoes always told Douglas MacMillan Cherry's secret. Only a devout Cincinnati Bengals fan would be seen in a pair of orange Converse sneakers painted with black tiger stripes. Sure, people stared. But Mr. Cherry did not care. The Bengals were the team he learned to love as boy growing up in Cincinnati. When he could steal a few days away from his job at AON Insurance, Mr. Cherry would even fly back to Cincinnati to watch his Bengals play.
 He loved only one thing more, his family, his wife, Sarah, and their children, Emma, Isabel and Jack. ''He loved his family and he loved the Bengals. That was his life,'' said Burns Patterson, his brother-in-law. At a makeshift memorial created near his home in Maplewood, N.J., friends posted a letter to honor Mr. Cherry. ''We all know the one thing Doug would have wanted from us. We will always take care of Emma, Isabel and Jack,'' the letter read. It then made a disparaging, though affectionate, reference to the Bengals.

JENNIFER DE JESUS
An Aunt and Confidante
 Galo Perez says he practically grew up with his aunt, Jennifer De Jesus, at their grandmother's Brooklyn home. ''I'm 20, she was 23,'' he said. ''She was more like a sister, and she affected me a lot; I could go to her about things nobody else could understand.''
 A year and a half ago, Ms. De Jesus got a job as a data entry worker at Morgan Stanley, on the 59th floor of the World Trade Center. The home of her extended family in Brooklyn has become a place of memories. ''She was always so sweet and thoughtful; always looking out for other people,'' said her sister, Wilma Perez. ''She babysat for my kids all the time, and my kids loved her.''
 Ms. De Jesus leaves a 2-year-old daughter, Jacinda.

KAREN RENDA
Handling Travel, and Crafts
 Two years ago, Karen Renda decided it was too boring at home. With her two boys -- Daniel, 19, and Matthew, 15 -- pretty much grown up, she traded her full-time homemaking career in Staten Island for a job as a travel agent.
 But working for American Express, arranging trips for executives at Marsh & McLennan on the 94th floor of 1 World Trade Center, did not mean Mrs. Renda, 52, forgot her crafty side, her husband said. She still made silk flower arrangements and wreaths for Christmas.
 And last February, for her youngest son's Valentine's Day school dance, she was in charge of the centerpieces for the tables -- stuffed bunnies in pink and white that needed to be decorated with hearts and bows and arrows.
 ''One day I come home and the whole table was full of these bunnies staring at me,'' said her husband, Charles Renda. ''There were about 100 of them.''
 Mr. Renda said he knew she was the one the minute they met on a blind date in 1972. ''We immediately hit it off,'' he said. ''She was very ladylike, very different from the girls I met in New York.''

GOUMATIE THACKURDEEN
A Vivacious Traveler
 All the Thackurdeens -- Goumatie, her three brothers and two sisters and most of her 12 nieces and nephews -- had settled in South Ozone Park in Queens, where they grew up. Goumatie, at 34 the youngest, moved easily between domesticity and aunthood and the cosmopolitan life of a world traveler.
 Small, slim and lively, she was a vice president at Fiduciary Trust who traveled for business and vacations. On the Stockholm-to-Helsinki ferry, she met Stefan Hellman, a Finnish salesman, who accompanied her through Europe and California and visited the home she shared with her mother.
 On weekends, she took two or three children to the park or zoo or home to bake cakes. To the grown ones she was a confidante and model of glamor and independence. 
 On holidays, she often invited everybody -- 23 relatives and assorted friends -- for dinners of dishes from France, Italy, America and Trinidad and Tobago, the Thackurdeens' native land.

The Confirmed Dead
 Following is a list of the latest two people confirmed to have died in the World Trade Center disaster, according to the New York City medical examiner's office, which said the victims' families had been notified.

NUNEZ, Jose
SAUER, Susan


GRAPHIC: Photos: Liz King, at the funeral of her husband, David Weiss, a firefighter who died in the trade center attack, is consoled by his colleague. (Photo by James Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (78%); FAMILY (76%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (74%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (73%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (64%); POETRY (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2004



2 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Safer Borders 

BYLINE:  By Stephen E. Flynn; Stephen E. Flynn is a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations and a commander in the Coast Guard.

 BODY:
Add a week, at least, of American commerce to the list of casualties from the Sept. 11 terrorist attack. In the hours following the collapse of the twin towers, the United States applied a tourniquet to the transportation arteries that feed our national economy. The first campaign in the war to protect the American homeland was to impose an embargo -- on our own economy.
 Freezing our transport networks first and asking questions later was clearly appropriate. But now comes the hard part. While domestic policing must continue to be emphasized, a considerable threat exists in cross-border traffic as well. Chemical and biological weapons can be more easily loaded in a truck than on a missile. 
 Front-line agencies like the Customs Service are being called upon to do something for which they have neither the staff nor the training. Last year, by air, land and sea, 489 million people, 127 million cars and 211,000 boats passed through our border inspection systems. These agencies, as presently financed and administered, cannot possibly eliminate every threat when faced with such numbers.
Airports and airplanes are like Fort Knox compared with other forms of transport. As cross-border trade has grown, security and those responsible for providing it have been shoved aside. Despite trade more than tripling between the United States and Canada, for example, the number of customs and immigration inspectors along the border remain at pre-Nafta levels. The Coast Guard, which is essential to port security, is at its lowest personnel level since 1964.
We are now experiencing the dark side of a transport system in which efficiency has trumped public security. As America mobilizes for a long struggle, we must acknowledge some basic realities. There will continue to be anti-American terrorists with global reach. These terrorists will have access to the means to carry out catastrophic attacks. And future terrorists will draw inspiration from this black Tuesday.
We must find a way to reduce the potential of our global transport lifelines to be conduits for terrorism. There needs to be far greater international cooperation in policing transnational flows of people and goods.
Trying to distinguish the illicit from the licit at America's borders is like trying to catch minnows at the base of Niagara Falls. We need to move upstream. Why not place some of our immigration and customs officials with their counterparts overseas, allowing them to inspect and clear travelers and goods destined for the United States? Such an approach would take better advantage of law-enforcement information at the point of departure, get transport-related intelligence into the security system sooner and reduce the congestion caused by inspections at our borders.
The private sector and traveling public also have roles to play. The overwhelming majority of international carriers, cargo shippers and travelers are legitimate, and they must be willing, for their safety, to embrace tightened security measures and provide proof of their identities and purposes as early as possible. This would allow border agencies to determine with more confidence what risks travelers, carriers and cargo might pose.
Verifying the identity and purpose of users or operators at the point of origin could be accomplished through electronic fingerprint technology and cargo and vehicle scanning equipment. Tracking devices -- electronic tagging, universal bar codes -- could be adopted to insure tighter control over commerce. This in-transit accountability would allow authorities to act on intelligence of a potential breach in security prior to arrival at our borders, as well as afterward. Their work must be effectively coordinated and supported by analysts and data management systems that would enable more effective targeting. 
The vibrancy of our globalized economy depends on the free movement of people, goods and ideas. As Gov. Tom Ridge steps into his new role as head of the Office of Homeland Security, he should keep in mind that quarantining our transportation system in the face of terrorism cannot be the right cure for this disease. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INSPECTIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (87%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); HARBOR & PORT SECURITY (73%); AIRLINES (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%) TERRORISM; TRANSIT SYSTEMS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



3 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: E-Commerce Report; 
Online businesseshave been getting some mixed signals on where they stand in the aftermath of the attacks.

BYLINE:  By Bob Tedeschi 

 BODY:
WITH the terrorist attacks less than three weeks behind them, and with a vast expanse of uncertainty ahead, e-commerce executives are struggling to steer their businesses through waters that were already rough to begin with. 
 After a falloff in online purchases the week of the attacks, some Web retailers actually saw a subsequent surge in sales. That might suggest that people would rather shop online than venture out to public spaces like shopping malls. 
 But David Schehr, a research director for GartnerG2, the business strategy unit of the research and consulting firm Gartner, said the attacks "are unlikely to have a really large effect on people's spending habits two or three months from now, at least if nothing else happens." 
Other analysts, though, are decidedly negative. 
"The events of Sept. 11 exacerbated the fragile state of consumer confidence, which correlates directly to consumer spending," said Anthony Noto, a Goldman Sachs analyst. "As they stop spending in aggregate, they'll stop online." 
Relying on that logic, Goldman Sachs recently reduced its long-term earnings forecasts for several major e-commerce companies, including Amazon.com, 1800Flowers.com and Ebay, among others. 
In the days immediately after the attacks, online travel companies were the most directly affected, as airline reservations declined dramatically. Since then, online reservations have picked up slightly, but remain far below normal levels. 
Bill Miller, chief executive of Eziba, an Internet and catalog retailer of handmade goods from around the world, said his company was one that saw sales decline during the week of the attack, compared with the same period in 2000. But the following week's sales, he said, were "10 times what they were last year." 
Mr. Miller conjectured that part of the increase came from customers who were simply catching up on shopping they had postponed during the week of the attacks. The culturally diverse nature of his products may have been particularly appealing to customers after the attack, he said. 
"And we also have a lot of products that offer a sort of Zen environment," Mr. Miller said, "which, if people are going to be nesting a little more, may be what they want to surround themselves with."
He said he had also heard "some feedback from customers that maybe it's better to shop at home." 
Giving Eziba's story an additional twist is that some of the 2,000 or so items the company sells are made in Afghanistan, including belts, and silver and lapis jewelry. Mr. Miller said the goods were made by a group of women in the nomadic Kuchi tribe who had fled to Pakistan since Sept. 11. 
He said he was not yet sure if Kuchi women would be able to continue making those items, because the raw materials might not be available. "But the products have been selling quite well, so we hope they can continue this," he said. 
Other online shopping categories have also rebounded quickly since the week of the attacks. Jim McCann, chief executive of 1800Flowers.com, said that after seeing an initial decline, the business "has been and will be the beneficiaries of people wanting to express themselves to friends, and to their disconnected friends and family." The sales increase, Mr. McCann said, has helped the company retain its revenue estimates of $78 million to $79 million for the quarter that finished yesterday.
As for the rest of the company's fiscal year, which ends June 30, Mr. McCann said his business plan was based on the assumption that the economy would weaken. So he said 1800Flowers.com would continue to watch spending closely, "and tell suppliers we have to be creative in how we finance things." 
Rather than simply pay his software suppliers an upfront fee, for instance, he said the company would be increasingly assertive in asking them to tie their compensation to actual cost savings -- or increased revenues -- the software helps 1800Flowers achieve. 
Mr. Schehr, the relatively upbeat Gartner analyst, said he based his assumptions, in large part, on a recent report from the Conference Board, which measures consumer confidence. In research released last week, the board said that nearly 90 percent of the nation's consumers did not plan to postpone minor purchases or major purchases, like homes, cars or appliances. 
Mr. Schehr said Gartner had found that nearly 72 million Americans bought goods online in the last three months. "Most of those are discretionary purchases like books, software and DVD's," he said. "In any economic downturn, which we were in before the 11th, those types of purchases can be adversely affected. But we had been expecting continued growth in online spending, regardless." 
Complicating the ability for many e-commerce executives to make forecasts is the fact that the fundamentals of their businesses have changed so radically in the last two years. A year ago, e-tailers were trying to hew to the new wisdom of Wall Street, which dictated less spending on marketing and staff. With marketing outlays now below 2000 levels, executives are wary of using last year's sales figures to forecast those of 2001. 
As a result, companies are not quite sure what sales for a "normal" September would look like. David A. Hodess, chief executive of Cooking.com, an online purveyor of cooking supplies, said his company was 10 to 20 percent above its forecast for much of last week, after having been substantially below forecast in the first 10 days after the attacks. 
"It could be people are shopping online rather than traveling to malls, or it could just be that the shopping season is picking up a little earlier," Mr. Hodess said. "But we're also spending 10 percent of what we spent last year on marketing, so it's possible we underforecasted a little." 
Mr. Noto of Goldman Sachs predicted that as consumer confidence and spending declined, bigger companies would start to acquire online businesses that had shown promise, but were unable to survive yet another round of belt-tightening. Previously, he said, established companies ducked such acquisitions, lest their stocks catch the dot-com plague. 
"Now, these deals might be attractive, because they're cheaper, number one, but the Internet companies have also made significant improvements in efficiency, so now they cover their fixed costs," Mr. Noto said. 
Mr. Noto said that Priceline, in particular, could be valuable to other online travel companies or traditional media companies -- the same way Expedia had proved attractive to USA Networks, which bought Microsoft's controlling stake in the company in July. 
Mr. Noto said investors might also see more wisdom in buying Internet stocks again. "There was a subset of investors that recognized in early April that the whole Internet sector wasn't going away," he said. After a handful of Internet-related stocks, including Expedia and Priceline, had increased in value during the summer -- but have been caught in the recent stock market downdraft -- "those investors are using this as an opportunity to reevaluate the group." 
Mr. Hodess of Cooking.com is not in a position to benefit from any stock activity, because his company is privately held. But he did say that Cooking.com had continued to receive takeover inquiries in recent weeks. 
"We're cash-flow positive in certain months, and we're getting pretty close to being there on an annual basis, which we figured would improve our negotiating position," Mr. Hodess said. "Some interesting folks have been knocking on our door, but they haven't mentioned the right price at the right time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bill Miller, chief executive of Eziba, an Internet and catalog retailer of handmade goods from around the world, said sales slowed the week of the attack, then surged. (Alan Chin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAILERS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); NONSTORE RETAILERS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); MISSING PERSONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (72%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (72%); TRAVEL AGENTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); COMPANY EARNINGS (69%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (67%); AIRLINES (65%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: TEDESCHI, BOB 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



4 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1700 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TECHNOLOGY; 
Software to Track Customers' Needs Helped Firms React

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
Early on Sept. 11, a Northwest Airlines flight bound for Minneapolis aborted its takeoff from San Jose, Calif., just as it was to leave the ground. The captain announced that the World Trade Center and Pentagon had just been attacked, and he turned the plane around.
 Two Hewlett-Packard managers on that flight, Adrian Koch and Barbara Stinnett, raced the short distance back to their offices and assembled two crisis teams. One team would start accounting for all Hewlett-Packard employees believed to be near the twin towers. The other's goal was to be ready for customers, who would likely be scrambling to replace the computer systems that had been destroyed within the walls of the ruined buildings. 
 Within minutes, Ms. Stinnett had extracted from her corporate database the names and contact numbers of every Hewlett-Packard customer in World Trade Centers One, Two, Six and Seven -- the buildings that news reports said had been ruined. Her computer system also let her assemble a list of every computer, server system and printer in those customers' offices -- and the closest Hewlett-Packard reseller or warehouse with replacement equipment in stock. Conversations with customers, new equipment orders and emergency shipping plans were logged in the system, accessible to field offices around the country. 
The efforts by Hewlett-Packard -- repeated in the offices of dozens of other computer suppliers, insurers and financial services providers in the wake of the terrorist attacks -- are extreme examples of an idea long preached in business schools and board rooms: Know your customer, help your business. The concept is called customer relationship management, more widely known by its abbreviation C.R.M., and a $6.5 billion software industry has sprung up around it, creating tools that help call-center agents, marketers and salespeople woo and service customers.
"We could find out what was missing and be ready for them when the calls were coming in," Ms. Stinnett said. When those calls did come in, from government offices and devastated corporations, she added, "you could just hear the chaos and the heartache in the background."
The dominant force in that industry is Siebel Systems Inc., which holds 54 percent of the market for the largest element of customer relationship software -- customer service and sales force automation. Challengers include the Oracle Corporation, PeopleSoft and SAP, which are trying to package customer management software with their broader corporate offerings, such as supply chain management and database systems. Smaller companies like BroadVision and Vignette lead a subsection of customer management software that orchestrates personalized marketing campaigns and Web-based systems that let customers answer their own questions online.
In addition, the complexities of installing customer management systems, which can take several years and tens of millions of dollars to complete, have created a lucrative market for consulting firms. PricewaterhouseCoopers, for example, does more than $1 billion in C.R.M. consulting business a year.
While much of the technology market has withered during the economic slump, customer relationship management revenues have continued to grow for the year, though at a slower pace than before. In part, that is because of their perceived usefulness in solving other business problems. While they are not without drawbacks, customer relationship management systems can help companies reduce costs by improving marketing campaigns, steering customers toward less expensive ways of getting in touch (like the Internet) and improving customer loyalty by providing better service. As marketers like to say, it costs five times as much to win new customers than it does to keep the ones a company already has.
"C.R.M. projects are in a protected class," said Bob Chatham, a principal analyst with Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, Mass. "They will be the last things to go as the economy tanks further."
For nearly a decade, corporations have been using increasingly powerful databases to collect and store huge amounts of information about their customers and their practices. The technology is finally nearing the point where information can be massaged and used both instantly and for long-range planning: to understand a customer's buying patterns, tailor marketing campaigns toward the most profitable clients, and keep them buying.
As its name implies, customer relationship management is about improving relationships between companies and the people (and other companies) who buy and use their products.
It takes many forms. At Blue Cross Blue Shield of Massachusetts, each of the 300 service representatives are equipped with software from a vendor called Pegasystems. When a customer calls with questions about health-insurance claims, a history of previous calls and important information about the member pops up on the agent's computer screen. Within a year, the insurer intends to expand the system to cover 1,200 people across several departments.
While the software used by service representatives helps them work to keep existing customers, other tools help a sales force pursue new customers and improve sales efficiency. Before a meeting in the field, a Dow Chemical salesman, with a few clicks on his laptop keyboard, can pull up the most recent news articles about a client he is about to visit, as well as a list of everything that customer has ever bought from any division of Dow, a $30 billion company that does business in 170 countries.
The holy grail of relationship management software is to give companies a "single view" of their customers. In other words, every salesperson or service agent should be able to find a record of all purchases and interactions that each customer has ever made, regardless of which sales channel the transaction came through. That has become increasingly complex, since customers today may do their business by phone, e-mail, the Internet, or in person. 
Companies have spent a lot of money developing many channels for customers to reach them, said Adam Klaber, who leads the customer relationship management group in the Americas for PricewaterhouseCoopers. "But they've created schizophrenia out there, where customers are dealt with differently based on the channel."
The technology is still young, and evidence of its early flaws has become evident. People in the industry tell stories, though they will not identify the subjects. Disgruntled customers are forced to tell the same story every time they call about a particular problem. Technology managers spend millions on software that sits on the computer unused because the human work force is not ready for it.
The Gartner Group, a market research firm, estimated that half of all customer relationship management projects fail to achieve the goals they set out to accomplish. Even Craig A. Conway, the chief executive of PeopleSoft, a company whose customer relationship management business has grown as large as its flagship human resources and financial applications software business, says early claims for its capabilities may have been overstated. He calls C.R.M. "the last emperor to be revealed not to have clothes."
Analysts, vendors and consultants say the problem is not with the software, but with the common, misguided belief that software alone can solve a company's customer service woes. Good customer relationships rely more upon business planning and employee training than they do on computer applications. Without defining realistic goals and changing behavior patterns, they say, customer relationship projects are doomed.
"Your software doesn't create the relationships," said Stephen R. Pratt, the global leader for Deloitte Consulting's customer relationship practice. "Your people still have to create the relationships."
With disappointments like these, the C.R.M. industry has hit what many describe as a hangover stage, after four years of heady sales. The market has been consolidating rapidly, as smaller companies fold or are snapped up by larger vendors. Siebel's revenue growth for license fees slowed to 17 percent in the second quarter, from more than 100 percent in each quarter of 2000, as corporations delay spending on C.R.M. projects. Siebel's shares have fallen 90 percent in the last year. 
But as the days following the terrorist attacks showed, strong relationships are never more important than during times of crisis. The Compaq Computer Corporation used its customer relationship management systems to track down, as far away as Alberta, Canada, 20-year-old computers configured exactly like the ones destroyed in a Lower Manhattan bank.
The Chubb Corporation, a casualty insurer, generated a list of all policy holders with homes within one mile of the disaster. And when two of its independent brokers had their offices destroyed in the World Trade Center, Chubb quickly compiled lists of their customers and, in one case, mailed those customers the phone number for the displaced brokers temporary offices.
On the other hand, insurance companies like State Farm and New York Life Insurance, whose customer relationship systems are still being installed, had no easy way to find policy-holders in the area. "We had to wait for them to come to us," a State Farm spokeswoman said.
Quick & Reilly, a brokerage in lower Manhattan, used its C.R.M. system to track pending stock trades delayed by market closures, even after the company evacuated its headquarters at 26 Broadway. At 9:33 a.m., Edward M. Garry, the vice president of customer relationship management solutions, fired off a message to all 2,100 financial agents across the country: "Please be advised that 26 Broadway is implementing its disaster recovery procedure. All exchange openings are postponed indefinitely. All systems will be shut down momentarily." From temporary offices, Mr. Garry used the customer relationship management system to send instructions to his agents, who were swamped with three times the usual calls on the first day markets reopened.
"It kept our brokers informed, which allowed them to communicate calmly with our customers and keep them informed," Mr. Garry said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Using C.R.M. software, Edward M. Garry of Quick & Reilly was able to give the company's 2,100 financial agents across the country instructions shortly after the company evacuated its Wall Street offices on Sept. 11. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Customer Links"Leaders in the largest segment of customer relationship management, or C.R.M., software - including customer service and sales force automation. C.R.M. REVENUE SHARESoftware licensing, cumulative to date: (TOTAL: $5 BILLION) 54% Siebel $2.7 billion11% Nortel $0.511% Oracle $0.59% PeopleSoft $0.515% Others $0.8(Source: Morgan Stanley)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); CUSTOMER RELATIONSHIP MANAGEMENT (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (83%); TERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (76%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (75%); SALES FORCE (75%); DATABASE SOFTWARE (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); MISSING PERSONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); NETWORK SERVERS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); CALL CENTERS (68%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (68%); INSURANCE (66%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (62%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INDUSTRY PROFILES; CUSTOMER RELATIONS 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (90%); ORACLE CORP (86%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (58%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (HWP) 

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (90%); ORCL (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (86%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (86%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (86%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (86%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (86%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (86%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (57%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (57%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: ;GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



5 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE MEDIA; 
The News Media Make Ready For War

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER and JIM RUTENBERG 

 BODY:
For journalists, the news story of a lifetime is breaking. But it won't come easily, cheaply or quickly.
 By last Friday, more than 200 journalists were on the Afghan rebels' waiting list for a $300 helicopter ride south from Tajikistan to join the 60 or more reporters in rebel-held areas of northern Afghanistan. A handful have made it in from the east, across the Pakistani-Afghan border, in recent days, including two men from the BBC who were smuggled in wearing full-body, face-covering women's burqas. A reporter for London's Sunday Express, trying the same ruse, was seized by the Taliban on Friday and may face trial as a spy. An NBC crew in Afghanistan traveled 200 miles through rebel-held mountains, losing four of the six cars to the cratered roads. 
 There will be war without obvious battlefields, combat hidden from view. At the Hotel Tajikistan in Dushanbe, the Tajik capital, there will be grumbling by journalists whose itch for news is unscratched. There will be pricey technology, like $8,000 satellite telephones capable of transmitting photos, that must be paid for from corporate news budgets already sapped by the advertising recession. And those reporters who succeed in reaching northern Afghanistan face dust storms that can destroy vital camera equipment. 
Top news executives who were interviewed last week expressed determination to offer the most important coverage of their careers. Privately, a few wondered how they would manage, both financially and logistically.
Nonetheless, one of the largest international media deployments in memory, costing at least $25 million in the first week or so -- has fanned out to Bahrain, Yemen, Tajikistan, Pakistan and Afghanistan. Along the way, reporters are uncertain how safely and independently they will be able to operate, particularly when it comes to the expected American military response to the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. 
Even while dramatic events may already be unfolding, the military is saying nothing. And on Friday, Pentagon spokesmen said they did not know when reporters could accompany troops.
Bob Simon, a CBS News correspondent who was captured by Iraqis during the Persian Gulf war of 1991, said "there's an enormous difference between then and now." Now, he said: "I assume it's going to be air strikes and special forces. And commandos don't take journalists along."
The bill for covering this amorphous conflict will have many elements. Business-class air fare from New York to Islamabad is $3,133 on Pakistan International Airways. Rooms at the Islamabad Marriott go for about $235 a night. Shipping and set-up costs for satellite communications equipment can run $50,000 to $70,000 for each uplink -- and at least that much each week to maintain it, not to mention transmission fees that can cost $2,000 for 15 minutes in remote areas.
The miscellany includes translators -- and bribes. "Sometimes freedom has a price," said John Moody, a senior vice president for the Fox News Channel, after a Fox crew transporting a videophone to northern Afghanistan was briefly detained, then released, by local authorities in Tajikistan.
Even before Sept. 11, the advertising revenue that underwrites most journalism had dwindled. Then came the attacks. Media companies gave up tens of millions of dollars' in ad revenue during the first week, as television networks in some cases dispensed with commercials, and print publications ran many additional pages not subsidized by advertising. (Analysts estimate that newspaper companies, for example, gave up half their weekly ad revenue and from 4 to 7 percent of their third-quarter ad revenue, as any circulation gains did not come close to offsetting the revenue shortfalls.)
But so far, financial worries have not kept news organizations from orchestrating one of largest mobilizations of journalists in a generation. More than a thousand journalists have been transplanted to places around the Middle East and Southwest Asia and to areas near military bases around the United States and Europe. The editors directing the coverage say they are thinking more about logistics and reporters' independence than about money.
During the gulf war, the Pentagon restricted most reporting to controlled pools of correspondents who would share their reports with the rest of the news media. These small groups were escorted by military officials and kept from areas of action. Their work was subject to military review.
Leonard Downie Jr., the executive editor of The Washington Post, recalled that the gulf war "was centralized with large movements and set battles." Although military authorities, he said, were not forthcoming and were sometimes deceptive, "once we were able to hear from all our correspondents, I don't think we missed much."
But the current situation is more difficult and unpredictable, Mr. Downie said. "We have no idea what actual military engagements are going to be like."
The media frictions of the gulf war in 1991 led to an agreement in 1992 between Washington bureau chiefs and the Pentagon, and a set of guidelines, based on the premise that "open and independent reporting will be the principal means of coverage of U.S. military operations." The guidelines specified that "journalists will be provided access to all major military units," although, "special-operations restrictions may limit access in some cases."
According to Jamie McIntyre, CNN's correspondent at the Pentagon, dealings have been generally cordial and open during most of the period since then. 
But now, "there's a completely different dynamic at work in the bulding than in the 10 years I've worked here," Mr. McIntyre said. "Almost everyone has been told just not to say anything." Like Mr. Downie and other news executives, Mr. McIntyre said that his organization had not disclosed information that could harm operations or risk lives.
Rear Adm. Craig Quigley, a Pentagon spokesman, agreed with Mr. McIntyre's observation, saying, "There is extraordinary sensitivity to telegraphing any sort of timeline or destination or capablity, because we are going to be fighting such an unconventional foe."
Covering a secretive war means ranging more widely, perhaps with more people, to improve the chance of getting information or insight. The competitive advantage in this case goes to the organization with the most bureaus -- like The Associated Press, Reuters or CNN, a unit of AOL Time Warner. The Associated Press has at least 50 reporters covering the conflict, three-quarters of them working with The A.P.'s television service.
In Southwest Asia alone, Reuters tripled its strength, sending 13 journalists to join the seven or eight already in Islamabad. It also used an additional dozen or more correspondents to reinforce all its bureaus around the Middle East and the southern tier of the old Soviet empire, from Tblisi, Georgia, to Almaty, Kazakhstan. And in Singapore, Reuters reinforced its editing corps to deal with the extra copy.
The New York Times, The Washington Post and The Los Angeles Times so far have each had at least three reporters in Pakistan and one in Afghanistan. Gannett's USA Today has two correspondents in Pakistan. Newsweek, with three reporters in Pakistan, is trying to get a visa to send one to Saudi Arabia, so far without success.
For news organizations that actually manage to get people into Afghanistan, the challenges have only begun. At Khwaja Bahaouddin in northern Afghanistan, Elizabeth Palmer of CBS sleeps on the floor and, like 50 other foreign journalists covering the rebels there, bathes in a communal trough filled with water delivered each morning by donkey. 
"The dust clouds are enormous, and the dust is getting into all the equipment," she said in a satellite telephone interview on Saturday. "Our camera is falling to bits slowly. We take it apart and clean it and put it back together every night. Our tripod fell to bits. The dust ground all of the joints completely."
And people around the rebel camp are sometimes camera-phobic. They know that the revered rebel leader Ahmed Shah Massoud was fatally wounded recently by a bomb believed hidden in a video camera, after he agreed to an interview with two men posing as journalists.
On Friday, the Taliban, which has closed the Afghan borders it controls, arrested Yvonne Ridley, 43, a reporter for The Sunday Express of London, along with two Afghan companions, near Jalalabad in eastern Afghanistan, The Associated Press reported. The A.P. quoted a Taliban-friendly local news agency, the Afghan Islamic Press, as saying Ms. Ridley was being investigated as a possible spy.
When a single newspaper cannot muster sufficient resources, it looks for help. Newspapers in groups like Hearst and Knight Ridder are pooling corporate resources. Jim Michaels of The Times Union, a Hearst newspaper in Albany, is reporting for the company's 12 newspapers from Feyzabad, Afghanistan, after getting into the country from Tajikistan. Before he left Dushanbe, he checked out the helicopter options. I assume they are roundtrip," he wrote in an e-mail message about the $300 fares. "They better be."
Eason Jordan, the chief news executive of CNN, believes that his people should be as many places as possible. "When President Bush talks about a war on terrorism, we interpret that as addressing more than just Afghanistan," Mr. Jordan said. "We're looking at the map of the world to determine where are there terrorists." Mr. Jordan said the network spent $1 million on Sept. 11 alone to get teams and equipment into place.
Compared with CNN, the broadcast networks, with their smaller foreign staffs, have been more sparing in their deployment.
"We're in it for the long haul, so we want to do it in an intelligent manner," said Andrew Heyward, the CBS News president. "That means putting resources where they're going to pay off for the viewer." CBS and ABC are cutting costs by sharing satellite uplinks, as are the BBC and the A.P.'s TV service.
If satellite time is expensive and in short supply, so are hotel rooms. More than 500 journalists -- some reporters say 1,000 or more -- are in Islamabad. From there, many head west to the Afghan border areas to visit the refugee camps. The towns near the camps are centers of pro-Taliban Islamic fervor. Reporters there are not allowed to travel anywhere, or even leave their hotels, unless accompanied by armed Pakistani guards.
But, as David C. Scott, the international editor of The Christian Science Monitor, said: "If you're in Pakistan, you're watching the story with your nose pressed against the glass of the window. You don't really know what's happening in Afghanistan. That's why everyone is rushing into Tajikistan."
The border between Pakistan and Afghanistan is essentially closed to Western journalists. Tajikistan, to the north of Afghanistan, offers a better staging point. About 340 journalists have arrived in Dushanbe since Sept. 12. But even this northern route is problematic. On Friday, border guards turned back a journalists' convoy, according to reporters with the group.
Fox News, a unit of the News Corporation figured out a short cut. It hired away Steve Harrigan, one of CNN's correspondents in northern Afghanistan. Mr. Harrigan, began reporting for Fox yesterday. But because Fox did not yet have a satellite video uplink in Afghanistan, Mr. Harrigan initially was going to rely on a satellite videophone.
A Fox crew trying to take a videophone over the border was stopped late last week. "I really don't know the charge, but they were detained" by local law-enforcement authorities, said Mr. Moody, the Fox executive. "They talked their way back into freedom," he said, indicating that it was also necessary to back up the talk with an undisclosed amount of money.
"I suppose you can get a videophone to hell if you have to," Mr. Moody said. "But that would be the only place that I could think of that would be harder than Afghanistan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Peter Tobia, a Philadelphia Inquirer photographer, in Quetta, Pakistan. Journalists must be accompanied by armed guards in areas near Afghan refugee camps. (Vincent Laforet/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Reporters who have made it into Afghanistan have become valuable commodities. Steve Harrigan was hired away from CNN and began reporting for Fox yesterday. (Fox News)(pg. C14) Map of Afghanistan highlighting Khwaja Bahaouddin: Journalists have had a hard time reaching a rebel camp at Khwaja Bahaouddin. (pg. C14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); ARMED FORCES (86%); TALIBAN (77%); HIJACKING (77%); DESERT STORM (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (73%); HELICOPTERS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); SMUGGLING (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); TERRORISM (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (66%); AIRLINES (63%); AIR FARES (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; FINANCES 

PERSON: BOB SIMON (58%) BARRINGER, FELICITY; RUTENBERG, JIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (95%); TAJIKISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (79%); BAHRAIN (79%); GULF STATES (53%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



6 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Moviegoers Are Returning, Even to Action Thrillers 

BYLINE:  By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Coming into this weekend, the first since the Sept. 11 attacks in which Hollywood tried to restore a level of normalcy to the movie distribution cycle, studio executives fretted about what kinds of stories the audience might be willing to watch.
 The initial answer seems to be: all kinds. 
 "There was no question in my mind that a comedy or a musical would be the thing to put out right now," said Bruce Snyder, president for domestic distribution at 20th Century Fox. "I had no idea whether a good drama could find its audience right now. And here, this weekend, we've got two of them, and they're both doing great." 
"Don't Say a Word," a flat-out action thriller starring Michael Douglas as a Manhattan psychiatrist frantically trying to rescue his kidnapped daughter, opened in first place this weekend with an estimated $18 million and a very healthy average of $6,422 per theater. Second place, by contrast, was held by "Zoolander," a knowingly wacky satire about fashion models and international intrigue. It earned $15.7 million with a per-theater average of $6,262. 
The third major opening of the weekend, "Hearts in Atlantis," a psychological drama based on a Stephen King story about a boy's relationship with a mysterious lodger, also did reasonably well, earning $9.5 million in significantly fewer theaters than the other two, for a per-theater average of $5,440.
Of more significance though, the box-office performance of the weekend's top dozen films was up 52 percent over the previous weekend -- when the only major new opening, Mariah Carey in "Glitter," failed even to crack the Top 10 -- and up 25 percent over the same weekend last year, when the hit "Remember the Titans" had opened to $21 million.
"People definitely want to get out of the house, and they want to move forward from the tragedy," said Dan Fellman, Warner Brothers' distribution chief.
Historically, movies have almost always done well in times of crisis, as they have maintained their position as one of the most available and least expensive forms of mass entertainment. So the weekend's robust box office may not necessarily portend a similar resurgence in other retail sectors.
"Still, this is the first sign we've seen in any part of the economy that says it can get back to normalcy," Mr. Snyder said. "I think it bodes well for cars and for clothes and for anything else that would be a retail issue."
Studio executives said that it might be too early to tell whether the weekend's box-office resurgence indicates that they have been a trifle overtimid in pulling from distribution in coming weeks a roster of films that were deemed too intense or too violent to fit the current national mood. Most of the films that were either pulled or had their releases significantly delayed had plots involving terrorism or New York settings.
There were some specific concerns -- apparently unfounded -- about how audiences would react to "Don't Say a Word," because of its violence, its New York locale and even a fleeting glimpse of the World Trade Center towers in one sweeping shot of the skyline. Ticket sales jumped between Friday and Saturday, an indication that the earliest audiences were not telling their friends to steer clear of the film.
It remains to be seen whether this marks a permanent return to business as usual or merely a bubble of box-office vigor caused by the pent-up tensions of the last few weeks. But it should not take long to find out.
A dozen major studio films are coming in the next few weeks, including "Training Day," an intense police thriller starring Denzel Washington; "Bandits," a sardonic comedy with Bruce Willis and Billy Bob Thornton as bank robbers; and "The Last Castle," a drama with Robert Redford as an imprisoned American general leading a revolt at a corrupt military prison.
"This weekend, there was a lot of business for new pictures," Mr. Snyder said. "It shows that the American public was saying, give us something to see, and we'll go. It's the first sign of some kind of national recovery, as far as I'm concerned." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (90%); FILM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); MISSING PERSONS (68%); THEATER (58%) MOTION PICTURES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (71%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%)

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (58%); MARIAH CAREY (50%) LYMAN, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



7 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Gdansk Journal; 
Mapping a Glossy Future for a Has-Been Shipyard

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: GDANSK, Poland 

 BODY:
When Janusz Lipinski looks out over the giant shipyard here where the Solidarity movement helped bring down Communism, he does not see acres of dreary and mostly deserted buildings. 
 Mr. Lipinski sees "Solidarity Center," a hotel and conference complex. He sees "Toolmakers Street," a tree-lined promenade with cafes, shopping arcades and movie theaters. He sees the "Walk to Freedom," a central boulevard that leads past monuments to a marina. 
 None of this exists right now. The shipyard still produces ships, and business has actually picked up in the last two years. But after going bankrupt and nearly shutting down in 1996, it is a small fraction of its former size.
As president of Synergia 99, the company that now owns two-thirds of the shipyard's property, Mr. Lipinski has a plan.
Think of the South Street Seaport in New York or Baltimore's Inner Harbor -- a waterfront complex for offices, shopping and tourism. Then sprinkle in memories of Lech Walesa, Solidarity and the shipyard workers' protests here that helped topple Communism. Poland, it seems, is not averse to a little post-revolutionary kitsch.
"This city has a rich history, which has a value," said Mr. Lipinski, sitting in the shipyard's red-brick headquarters building. "If business people come here, perhaps for a three-day conference, they will want to visit the shipyard and see where everything happened." 
Gdansk Shipyard needs to reinvent itself. Its traditional customers, governments in the old Soviet bloc, disappeared when Communism collapsed a decade ago. The shipyard was unable to compete on the open market against low-cost producers in Japan, Korea and China. 
Other Polish shipyards, in Gdynia and Szczecin, became private companies and put themselves through painful overhauls. But Gdansk, with its halo of history, remained state-owned and immune to change.
The result: it became the worst shipyard in Poland. 
Today, things look better. After going bankrupt, Gdansk was bought by its less famous but more profitable rival, the nearby Gdynia Shipyard. To some people here, that was as if New Jersey had bought Manhattan.
But Gydnia executives brought new work to Gdansk, which built and exported 10 cargo ships last year and now has orders to carry it through 2004. It also consolidated the shipbuilding onto about one-third of the original property. The work force, which shrank sharply after the demise of Communism, has edged up from 2,800 in 1998 to 3,500 today.
"The events that took place here were very important and positive for the country," said Stanislaw Twarowski, president of the slimmed-down shipbuilding operations, referring to the Solidarity protests. "Unfortunately, those events were very negative for the company."
The global economy has not helped. When South Korea's currency plunged with the Asian financial crises three years ago, Korean ship prices, which are negotiated in dollars, plunged too. Making matters worse, the Polish zloty surged against the dollar last year as the Polish central bank waged a ferocious campaign to beat inflation. 
Now, just as business was stabilizing, executives fear that the terror attacks in the United States will choke off orders once again. 
That is where Mr. Lipinski and Synergia enter the picture. Gdynia created Synergia as its real-estate subsidiary and hired Mr. Lipinski, an ebullient consultant from Price Waterhouse, as its president. He has spent the last year soliciting ideas from designers and architects around the world.
The result so far is a 20-year "Vision Plan" that lays out a scheme for transforming the shipyard into Gdansk's new central business district.
For one thing, Mr. Lipinski said, about one million people live within an hour's drive of Gdansk. The city has a major technical university and a surprisingly buoyant economy. At the same time, he said, Gdansk lacks any real magnet to draw businesses and shoppers.
What could be more perfect?
The obstacles are obvious. Gdynia has little extra cash and needs $50 million just to prepare the basic infrastructure like roads, water and utilities. Gdynia still needs to recruit foreign investors and property developers to take part. More immediately, it needs local political support. 
Many shipyard workers are suspicious, having lost their jobs and seen their shares in Gdansk Shipyard become worthless. When the shipyard celebrated the 20th anniversary of Solidarity's founding last year, former workers staged angry protests. "They privatized the company and it collapsed a year later and then they sold it for peanuts," a retired welder said. "They are getting richer while we are getting poorer."
As a political party, Solidarity is greatly weakened. But it remains a trade union and its members have big influence here. To coax their support, Mr. Lipinski offered to give Solidarity the building where Mr. Walesa led his historic negotiations with Communist leaders. The idea is to create a Solidarity museum of sorts in the new Solidarity Center.
Mr. Walesa, who led Solidarity and later became president of Poland, has been quietly supportive of the project. Bogdan Lis, who was one of Mr. Walesa's top lieutenants and wants to create a Solidarity archive, is also favorable -- but realistic after more than a decade of capitalism.
"We cannot live off history," Mr. Lis noted.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As president of the company that owns much of the Gdansk shipyard's property, Janusz Lipinski, left, has big plans for its future. Ships are still being built at the yard, above, which has orders that will carry it through 2004. (Photographs by Lukasz Glowala/Forum, for The New York Times) Map of Poland highlighting Gdansk: Shipyard workers at Gdansk helped bring down Communism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (72%); GLOBALIZATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) POLAND (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



8 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: In Rapid Shift, a Budget Surplus Is Expected to Turn Into a Deficit 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Analysts inside and outside the government say the large federal budget surpluses of recent years are likely to give way to a deficit in the fiscal year that starts on Monday, a stunningly swift turnabout brought on by the weakening economy and the costs of the campaign against terrorism.
 The Congressional Budget Office expects the government to run a surplus of about $121 billion in the year that ends today, down from $236 billion the year before. For the coming 12 months, analysts are forecasting that the government at best will balance its books after paying for military action, relief and reconstruction efforts and an economic stimulus package, and probably will spend tens of billions of dollars more than it takes in through taxes. 
 As recently as the spring, before the passage of President Bush's $1.35 trillion 10-year tax cut and before the extent of the economic slowdown became clear, the budget office was projecting a surplus for the coming year of $304 billion.
Although there is bipartisan consensus that the nation should spend what is needed after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the shift in the budget outlook could have considerable economic and political effects in the long run. 
Already the goal of paying off most of the $3.3 trillion national debt has been questioned. Proposals like helping retirees pay for prescription drugs have been postponed. The Social Security lockbox has been cast aside, leaving unclear how Congress and the administration will deal with the rising costs of paying retirement benefits to an aging population.
In the long run, the two parties no doubt face an intense fight over how best to get the government back on a track of surpluses, and how scarcer money should be allocated. 
An analysis by Democrats on the House Budget Committee last week concluded that the roughly $2 trillion federal budget in the coming year would be $8 billion in deficit under optimistic assumptions about the economy and the costs of the response to the terrorist attacks, and $70 billion in deficit under pessimistic assumptions.
Goldman Sachs, the investment firm, on Friday projected a deficit for next year at $25 billion, with a substantial risk that it could be higher.
Stanley Collender, managing director of the Federal Budget Consulting Group at Fleischman-Hillard, the public relations firm, said it was difficult to come up with a course of events in which the surplus is not wiped out next year.
"It's hard to dispute the notion that a balanced budget is the best you can do," Mr. Collender said. "More likely you end up with a budget deficit."
Projecting budget surpluses and deficits even a year ahead is an extremely imprecise business, and there are more uncertainties than usual this time, including the nature and duration of the fight against terrorism and the depth of the economy's problems. 
But even if the government ends the coming year without posting a deficit, it is very unlikely to return quickly -- or perhaps at all -- to the situation that existed just a month ago, when both parties assumed they could count on large and growing surpluses to pay for a variety of initiatives.
Even one bad year could eat deeply into the projections of $3.4 trillion in excess revenues for the next decade. 
When the economy is weak, unemployment goes up and people who are working earn less money, cutting into government revenues from income taxes and the payroll taxes that finance Social Security and Medicare. A decline in corporate profits leads to an erosion of corporate income tax revenues. A stagnant or declining stock market means people have fewer capital gains.
At the same time, government expenditures tend to go up when the economy weakens or goes into recession. Payments for unemployment and welfare benefits, for example, rise. As a result, the surplus shrinks, or the deficit increases, both from declining revenues and increasing costs. Smaller surpluses or bigger deficits also increase the interest payments the government must make on its debt, exacerbating the problem.
Members of both parties said it was entirely appropriate for the government to run a deficit for a year or two under the circumstances. There are no higher priorities, they said, than national security and reestablishing economic growth.
Asked about the prospect of running a deficit, Ari Fleischer, President Bush's spokesman, said the nation was fortunate to enter this period having money available from the surplus to put to work fighting terrorism and reinvigorating the economy.
"The president's priority is to take the necessary steps to protect this nation in the wake of the attack," he said. "The budget implications of that remain to be precisely determined, and those will also substantially be driven by the strength of the economy."
Gene Sperling, who was President Bill Clinton's economic policy adviser, said that one reason for running surpluses in the first place "is to be able to unload your fiscal cannon and load your military cannons when you're in a time of crisis."
In coming up with its projection of a $25 billion deficit for the coming year, Goldman Sachs said the most recent official forecast by the Congressional Budget Office for a surplus of $176 billion has already been reduced substantially.
Of the $40 billion in emergency spending for the military and relief efforts passed by Congress this month, about $26 billion will come from the coming year's budget. An expected economic stimulus package, plus aid to the airline industry and lower expectations for economic growth, will shave another $110 billion off the surplus, the investment firm estimated.
Goldman Sachs said it expected the remaining $40 billion surplus to be wiped out by further deterioration in the economy and a drop in revenue from capital gains taxes caused by the stock market's decline. 
Although it is projecting a deficit of $25 billion, Goldman Sachs said the risks were "skewed heavily toward an even larger budget deficit in the coming year."
The forecast by the Democratic staff of the House Budget Committee is built largely on the possibility that the economy does not generate as much tax revenue as in recent years, even after adjusting for a slowdown in economic growth, because of the weak stock market.
"Stock prices have now fallen dramatically and may stay low given the uncertain climate going forward," the forecast said. "As a consequence, tax revenues related to surging income from capital gains, stock options, bonuses and corporate profits may now dwindle."
But even before the budget outlook for the next year comes precisely into focus, the two parties are laying the groundwork for a debate about how to restore the government to a stronger fiscal condition in the long run.
Democrats say the government should allocate as much money as necessary now to military needs and to a package of tax cuts and new spending to help the economy recover.
But they said short-term stimulus needs to be accompanied by a commitment to running surpluses and paying down more debt in the long run. Moreover, Democrats said, the nation still faces the same long-term fiscal challenge it faced before Sept. 11 -- paying retirement benefits to a rapidly aging population. Within the next two decades, Social Security will no longer be able to cover full benefits out of the taxes it collects. 

CORRECTION-DATE: October 2, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about expectations of a federal budget deficit misspelled the name of a public relations firm in which Stanley Collender is managing director for the federal budget consulting group. Mr. Collender, who said he considered a deficit likely, works for Fleishman-Hillard, not Fleischman-Hillard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (86%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); TAX LAW (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); TAX RELIEF (75%); POLITICS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (72%); AGING (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); AGING TRENDS (65%); MISSING PERSONS (63%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



9 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: California to Raise Unemployment Benefits 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis has agreed to sign a bill on Monday to increase unemployment benefits beginning next year, senior administration officials said today. 
 The current maximum unemployment benefit is $230 per week. The bill would raise the maximum to $330 per week beginning on Jan. 1. By 2005 the benefit would increase to $450 per week. 
 California ranks 48th out of the 50 states in the level of unemployment benefits offered and is looking to improve that position, the governor's office said.
The state's labor unions supported the bill. Business groups were mostly opposed, although they conceded that some increase was justified.
Opponents of the bill argued that such increases would place a tax burden on employers. The benefits would first be paid from a temporary unemployment insurance fund surplus, with business tax contributions needed to finance the increased benefits in 2004 and 2005.
Unemployed workers would be eligible for 26 weeks of coverage. It has been nine years since the last such increase in state benefits.
Giving the unemployed more money would allow them to return to work sooner and not force them into lesser-paying positions to make ends meet, the author of the bill, State Senator Richard Alarcon, said today.
"We want our workers to be at their productive peak when they're working and not taking a job that they were forced to take," Mr. Alarcon said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (94%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); GOVERNORS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX LAW (74%); LABOR UNIONS (70%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WAGES AND SALARIES; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE 

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



10 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SCENT; 
20 Days Later, an Invisible Reminder Lingers

BYLINE:  By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
It's the odor of a burning computer. Or a burning tire. Or burning paper. One person said it was the scent of unsettled souls.
 It's the smell, once overwhelming, now increasingly more ephemeral, that emanates from the tangled wreckage of the World Trade Center. 
 It has become an elusive smell. The first days after the collapse of the towers, it was so pungent that shifting winds transported it for miles, all the way to the upper reaches of Manhattan. They carried it over into Brooklyn and Queens, deposited it in New Jersey. Everyone seemed to smell the horror of death.
Nearly three weeks later, the smell is more localized, but still there, a stubborn reminder. Depending on the strength and direction of the wind, the odor might be evident three blocks east of the remains but not three blocks west. You might smell it north of the site but not south. On certain days, people as far away as Greenwich Village, if not farther, say they can sniff it.
On Friday, it was particularly potent in the crowded Wall Street area. "As the days wear on, it's gotten better," said Gus Albano, a clerk at the New York Stock Exchange. "But it got worse today for some reason. It was almost like the early days, when my stomach turned from the smell."
What did it smell like? "Like a rubber tire burning," he said. 
Some workers in the financial district even left for home early on Friday because they found the smell too repugnant. One firm on Broad Street, which didn't want its name used, said most of its employees chose to leave by 1 p.m., complaining that they couldn't concentrate because of the foul odor, and, city disclaimers to the contrary, they feared that it might be noxious. The smell seeped inside the offices, even though the windows were shut and the air-conditioning vents had been cleaned.
"It's like burning plastic, or what a burning computer might smell like," said a woman who works at the firm. "Yesterday, it was fine. I don't remember smelling it too much then. It changes day to day. But today it was awful. People said the smell brought back horrible memories."
Even though people were complaining about the smell and fretting about what it signifies about the air, hardly anyone other than rescue workers and some police officers have bothered to wear a respirator mask in recent days. On the morning the stock exchanges reopened, masks were omnipresent downtown. 
The other day, they were scarce. A few people had their jacket collars pressed against their noses. A few others had tied handkerchiefs around their faces, bandit style. One young man simply pinched his nose with his fingers as he walked. A middle-aged woman had folded an American flag over her mouth.
City and federal officials have been continually testing the air near the fallen towers, and they have consistently maintained that the air is safe to breathe. That is enough for some people. That is not enough for many others.
"It's very bad, golly, it's so bad," said Rob Smith, 45, a telecommunications engineer from Virginia who was working in the financial district on Friday. Walking on the street, he had a handkerchief covering his nose and mouth.
"Some days it's better, some days it's worse," he said. "On a scale of 1 to 10, today is about 7. It smells like rubber burning. Some days it's like metal burning. Other days it's like paper burning. Today is rubber." 
The enduring smell means different things to different people. For some, it is a reminder of what they don't want to remember. For some, it is something to fear. For some, it is just a nasty smell. 
A man walking down Liberty Street peddling American flag pins said: "It's the souls being disturbed. It's the smell of the souls being disturbed."
Lauryn Sawyer, 36, a counselor visiting from North Carolina to do her part to help New York's faltering economy, said: "The smell breaks my heart. The smell makes it all worse. It makes it more real, and I wish it weren't real."
John Quinn, a fund-raising director for an environmental business on Murray Street, a couple of blocks from the devastation, thought the odor, which smelled like burning paper to him, was steadily diminishing. "You still notice it in the air," he said. "But it's sort of becoming normal. It's sad to say that."
Like many other people, he was not satisfied with the city's reassurances that the air was safe, even as he reoccupied the streets with his face unmasked. "I don't want to say I don't believe them, but I don't," he said. He said his company was having its own air tester come to its offices today. 
Jacqueline Williams, 39, was pushing a stroller containing her 2-year-old daughter, Skye, along the sidewalk in Battery Park City. She is a dog walker. She had 12 dogs in the area, but only 3 have returned to their homes thus far: a Brittany spaniel, a basset hound and a mixed breed.
She had to take her daughter with her from her Staten Island home to walk the dogs, and the air unnerved her, even though the smell was barely detectable then in Battery Park. 
"It's either cleared up or I've gotten used to it," she said. "But I worry about my daughter breathing in the air. I do feel the air quality is definitely lower, but at this point I have so few clients that I'm not spending a lot of time here."
A few blocks away, Ann Hoch, who lives in Battery Park City but has yet to resume life in her apartment, said the most revolting smell of all was last Sunday, the first day she was able to re-enter the area. "It was the smell of rotting food in people's apartments and in the grocery stores," she said. "It was enough to make you gag."
Refrigerators and stores have since been cleaned of spoiled meat and produce, and that odor has vanished. She said the smell from the trade center residue came and went. 
"When it was overcast, it was stronger," she added. "It was not quite a fire smell. It was something extra. How can I describe it? It made your lips tingle."

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the World Trade Center attack, everyone in Lower Manhattan seemed to smell something -- burning tires, or unsettled souls. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); TERRORISM (74%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIR POLLUTION; TESTS AND TESTING; ODORS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



11 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2027 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: VICTIMS' COMPENSATION; 
Fund for Victims' Families Already Proves Sore Point

BYLINE:  By DIANA B. HENRIQUES and DAVID BARSTOW 

 BODY:
The compensation fund created by Congress 10 days ago, which could pay the families of victims in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks more than $1 million each, has begun to generate both resentment and confusion about its ultimate fairness and effectiveness.
 Senior budget analysts for House Democrats say that the fund, established as part of legislation to rescue the airline industry, could cost taxpayers as much as $15 billion to compensate the direct victims of the attacks -- at least 6,000 killed or missing and another 8,700 injured. 
 But already, even as the Justice Department works to establish the fund, some victims of past terrorism, from the Oklahoma City bombing to the destruction of two American embassies in Africa, are upset to be excluded.
As well, charities and relief agencies, which have raised more than $675 million so far, are worried that the federal fund may go only to families of those killed or injured in the attacks, who are already the main recipients of private charity. The fund would exclude many families who have suffered mental trauma and have lost homes, jobs or businesses. 
Legal scholars have raised questions about the fund's even-handedness and accountability. They cite, in particular, the extraordinary power of the fund's "special master," the person to be appointed by Attorney General John Ashcroft to make the fund's awards. Inevitably, they say, the special master, who is not subject to Senate approval and whose decisions cannot be appealed to any court, will have to balance the economic losses and emotional anguish of each family against the total burden on taxpayers.
The fund, which still has an undetermined price tag, was adopted as part of legislation to save the airline industry from bankruptcy after the hijackings. Devised to shield the industry from litigation, it is open to the families of anyone who suffered death or physical harm in the hijackings or the attacks.
Those who apply for relief waive their right to sue for damages sustained in the attacks in any federal or state court. But the applicants are promised a decision within 120 days, far less time than a lawsuit would take. They are also excused from having to prove who is to blame for their losses, as they would be required to do in court.
The amounts paid out by this fund must be reduced by the amount any family has received from its own private insurance, death benefits or government assistance. It is not clear whether awards from private charity would be subtracted from federal awards, something that has those involved in private fund-raising deeply puzzled about how best to distribute their money.
Stephan Landsman, a law professor at DePaul University who is advising the American Bar Association on the compensation fund, warned that a special master whose focus has to include the country's taxpayers could be, in fact, "an adversary to the claimants -- and it does not seem fair to have an adversary also making the final decision."
The early estimates prepared by the members of Congress involved in the fund's creation are, they admit, preliminary. But they agreed that the fund was structured to compensate families roughly in line with what they might expect from a court award. In cases of death and severe injury, such awards routinely exceed $1 million. "Those kinds of numbers were clearly being contemplated," said one official involved in the negotiations.
The fund's framers said their aim was to offer families an avenue for relief that would be faster and more certain than litigation. But the concerns already raised about how it will operate and whom it will serve suggest it may need refining.
The emerging questions and unhappiness about the fund were, in effect, born in compromises made to achieve its passage, according to interviews with a half-dozen Republican and Democratic participants in the process.
The basic architecture of the fund was designed in less than 24 hours, with the final passages written at 4 a.m. on Friday, Sept. 21, just hours before the measure was passed by both chambers. Negotiators for both parties said the rush was driven by the demands of airline executives, who had bluntly warned that they would be out of business without immediate financial aid and protection from lawsuits.
Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle and House Minority Leader Richard A. Gephardt had made it clear that there would be no deal for the airlines without compensation for victims. But a disagreement about how best to construct such a system of compensation surfaced.
A plan proposed by the White House would have had all victim claims consolidated for trial in federal court in Manhattan, with the government stepping in to pay claims only after the airlines' insurance was exhausted. If victims failed to prove who was to blame for their losses, they would get nothing.
Ultimately, though, the real wrangling over the nature of the fund took place when leaders of the Senate and House met in the offices of House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert on the night of Sept. 20.
The Democrats wanted an open-ended victims compensation fund presided over by a senior judge, subject to Senate confirmation, who would be empowered to award any amount of money to cover both economic losses, such as lost wages, and noneconomic losses, such as pain and suffering and mental anguish.
But they met fierce resistance from three Republicans: Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas and Representative Roy Blunt of Missouri. The Republicans demanded to know how much the fund would cost.
"Nobody had any idea of the liability we were assuming for the government," Mr. Blunt recalled in an interview. But to questions of cost, Mr. Daschle responded, "Can any of you value these lives right now? I can't."
Mr. Nickles had another concern: fairness to his own state's terrorism casualties, who had not been so generously compensated after the 1995 bombing of the Oklahoma City federal building, according to two participants in the meeting.
With pressure building from the airlines, the Republican negotiators ultimately agreed to much of what Mr. Daschle and Mr. Gephardt proposed, but not without extracting two important concessions.
First, they insisted that the federal fund had to reduce any award it made to a family by the amount of other compensation the family received, such as life insurance or death benefits. Second, they wanted Attorney General John Ashcroft to pick who would run the fund.
The Democrats say they agreed in part out of a "leap of faith" born of bipartisan spirit and in part because they saw the commitment to pay for noneconomic losses such as pain and suffering as a boon to the families of victims who earned little or had spotty employment histories. In cases involving similarly horrific deaths, awards for pain and suffering can be very large. In recent cases involving three American students killed in suicide bombings in Israel, their families received a total of $54 million in compensatory damages.
"It is expensive," Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton said. "But how do you put a price tag on a life?"
Whatever its virtues, the final agreement on the fund, signed by President Bush on Sept. 22, struck some victims of previous terrorist attacks as far from inclusive enough. No equivalent fund was established to compensate those victims or their families.
"To me, you have to equalize the playing field or it's just not fair," said Kathleen R. Flynn, the mother of John Patrick Flynn, a college student who was killed in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland.
Suzanne Breedlove, director of victims services for the Oklahoma District Attorneys Council, which administers the state's compensation plan for crime victims, said that some in Oklahoma City resent the notion of "making millionaires out of people." It is an equity issue, she added. "Are we going to raise half a billion dollars for every terrorist attack in America?"
Edith Bartley's father and brother were among the 224 people killed in the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in Africa. Ms. Bartley, like other victims of past terrorist attacks, said she felt enormous sadness for the newly traumatized families, but also a growing anger at the vast sums of public relief and private charity now being directed toward those families.
Ms. Bartley and the families of 10 other Americans killed in the Nairobi attack have been quietly asking Congress to provide $1.5 million to each family to compensate them for their anguish. They picked the figure because that was the amount the United States government paid to the families of those killed in the accidental bombing of the Chinese embassy in Serbia in 1999.
Ms. Bartley said their pleas had been greeted with sympathy -- notably from Representative Blunt, whose daughter went to law school with Ms. Bartley -- but no action. Now, seeing the details of this new victims' compensation fund, these families find themselves feeling forgotten and heartbroken all over.
"They weren't thinking about us, and it's because it happened in their backyards, not thousands of miles away," Ms. Bartley said. "And yet all of these victims are victims of the same terrorist group."
Told of Ms. Bartley's comments, Mr. Blunt said, "Well, a lot of things in life are not fair, and this may turn out to be one of them. Some unlucky victims are more unlucky than others."
The creation of the fund, and the ambiguity in some of the language defining its mission and obligations, have also posed problems for the scores of charitable and philanthropic groups trying to help the current victims.
A key unanswered question for charities is whether the money a family has received or will receive from philanthropic sources, such as the Twin Towers Fund for uniformed personnel or the Windows of Hope fund for food industry workers, will be deducted from the federal fund's awards.
If so, the new government fund could help even out the flow of aid to those who have not benefited from specialized fund-raising efforts. But that would also oblige charities, as a matter of full disclosure, to begin advising families of the effect their aid may have on future federal awards, several lawyers said.
The fund also would make it more important for private philanthropy to steer more of its aid to the thousands of affected families excluded from the federal fund, several lawyers and charity executives agreed. Yet many donors have specified that their gifts are to be used only for direct victims -- the same people who will benefit from the new fund.
"It doesn't feel that it has been coordinated with the other relief work very well," said Kathy Bushkin, president of the AOL Time Warner Foundation.
The fund's effect on private charity was "clearly something they never thought about," said Robert A. Clifford, the chairman of the A.B.A. Task Force on Terrorism and the Law. "The attorney general should immediately speak to that question, so that the giving does not come to a halt." Several authors of the legislation acknowledged that this was a question that was overlooked in their haste to create the fund.
While many lawyers praise the fund, they note that its shape is a sharp departure from previous federal efforts to compensate victims of widespread disasters.
The fund, for instance, differs from past practice in the amount of power vested in its special master. Special masters who oversee other federal funds are typically subject to court review. In this case, there is no appeal from the special master's decisions.
The tension between providing compensation to families and limiting the government's financial exposure is already surfacing. Mr. Blunt said the special master would have "a unique responsibility to arrive at a fair settlement from all perspectives."
Still, lawyers seem to agree that the fund, if its flaws can be mended, will serve the affected families far better than lawsuits.
Mr. Clifford, a specialist in aviation lawsuits, called the bill a "necessary piece of legislation." He added, "We need to try to turn what would otherwise be a quagmire of litigation into something that melds together and helps victims." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HIJACKING (89%); FAMILY (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); DAMAGES (78%); AIRLINES (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%); PHILANTHROPY (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); APPROVALS (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); LITIGATION (70%); MISSING PERSONS (70%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LIFE INSURANCE (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (54%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) TERRORISM; LAW AND LEGISLATION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PHILANTHROPY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; BARSTOW, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (79%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



12 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE CLASSES; 
Pakistan Is 2 Worlds: One Urbane, One Enraged

BYLINE:  By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: KARACHI, Pakistan, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
Arif Ali Khan Abbasi, educated at Oxford, retired head of Pakistan International Airlines, recently went to a mosque in Karachi to kneel for noon prayer.
 He chose a mosque favored by more hard-line Islamic fundamentalists in the Gulshan-E-Iqbal section of Karachi, and as he knelt he felt the eyes of the bearded faithful bore into him. "Because I was clean-shaven," he said. That offends them. 
 "Why did you come here," one man asked him.
"To pray," he said. He listened to the mullah's words, as much song as sermon, and was not insulted or abused in any way, as he prayed. But when he was done, he was approached by several men who told him, politely: "O.K., you have prayed. Now please leave."
Mr. Abbasi, who is so respected in business circles here that employees at Pakistan International Airlines wept when he retired, is not accustomed to being told to leave anything until he is ready to go, and then people hold the door for him.
But now, he said, he is a target of resentment that has more to do with unbending religious doctrine than with class.
It was one more sign of the divide between this city's -- and this country's -- business and upper classes, and the swelling numbers of Islamic militants. 
It does not make him angry or frightened so much as it makes him sad.
Pakistan's upper classes are not afraid -- at least not yet -- that an attack by the United States on neighboring Afghanistan will lead to such anger and violence here that the very society will suddenly crumble and be replaced overnight by a Taliban-like leadership. 
Mr. Abbasi told his story of the confrontation at the mosque at a recent dinner party in a prosperous Karachi neighborhood, a party that could have existed anywhere else in the world. Doctors stood elbow to elbow with business leaders, talking politics, some of them holding drinks of whiskey -- taboo in Islam. One of the signs of wealth here, say people with a wink, is knowing a good bootlegger. They spoke in English, not Urdu. 
"We are bloody worried," said Habibur Rahman, a business management consultant. 
"No one really knows the future," he added. There may be riots, there may be killing, but in Karachi and in Pakistan as a whole, he said, there is a great difference between talking about holy war and actually commiting it to the degree that it could tip a society. 
In Pakistan, said the city's economic and professional elite, there is a silent majority made up of people who only want to work and live decently and have their children educated -- but who will talk about defending Afghanistan and attacking outsiders because of a fealty to Islam.
"That is what Musharraf is counting on," said Kamal Majidulla, editor of the Dawn Group of Newspapers.
Unlike most places in Karachi, where anti-American sentiment seems to be everywhere, there is little badmouthing of the United States in this spacious home, over trays of Pakistani delicacies. One man proudly says he has visited 27 American states. 
A woman says she loves New York, and was there when the attack came and it broke her heart.
Outside these walls, Karachi, with 12 million people, has been tugged at from both sides.
Residents have marched to protest the government's support of the United States. Others marched in support of it -- and 11 people were injured by homemade grenades. "Firecrackers," said one woman, dismissively. 
For the upper classes, it is Pakistan's two million refugees from Afghanistan who have done most to destabilize the country. "They have no choice but to get drunk on bigoted religion," said Mr. Abassi. They have little work, and little educational opportunities. 
There are whole generations of Afghans living in Karachi who have never known anything except war. Mr. Majidullah described carpet shops where small boys who used to weave scenes of intricate detail, of princesses, camels and elephants, now weave rugs depicting AK-47 assault rifles and tanks. 
He suggested that America drop money rather than bombs on Afghanistan. Invest in the country, he continued, with schools and businesses and social programs, and give the people there less reason to hate.
It is advice that Mr. Abbasi and others say is the key to stability in their own country to keep Islamic militants in check. 
"I think Pakistan is going to have some luck, and we have not had luck for 50 years," Mr. Abbasi said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nanni Rahman, left, and Saleem Majidulla, who belong to Pakistan's upper class, discussing the country's situation. The vast numbers of poor are more militantly religious and more sympathetic to the Taliban.; Members of Pakistan's elite at a cocktail party where the talk was about the country's political predicament in the war against terrorism. The government must straddle the roles America's ally and Afghanistan's friend. (Photographs by LynseyAddario/Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); FUNDAMENTALISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); AIRLINES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALIBAN (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); POLITICS (66%); RIOTS (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: PAKISTAN INTERNATIONAL AIRLINES CORP (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: KARACHI,PAKISTAN (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (86%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PAKISTAN (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); PAKISTAN; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



13 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: Letting Empire Go For-Profit 

 BODY:
Empire Blue Cross and Blue Shield has been trying since 1996 to guarantee its future by shedding its not-for-profit status. Now facing up to $50 million in losses from the destruction of its offices at the World Trade Center, the company needs to sell stock to make the investments needed to compete with other insurers. Yet its chances of converting to a for-profit corporation are caught up in political disputes. Without quick action by the state, Empire may be forced to accept a disadvantageous buyout from another not-for-profit insurer just to remain financially viable. 
 Sound management led Empire from near-insolvency to a strong balance sheet in the late 1990's. Even now, Empire is managed much as a for-profit company would be. Yet lately it has struggled to compete with New York's big for-profit insurers. Their market shares have increased almost every year, leaving Empire behind. A takeover by another not-for-profit might help, but only at the cost of hundreds, perhaps thousands of New York jobs, including those of Empire's proven managers. 
 If Empire becomes a for-profit company and raises money by selling stock, it will keep its successful management team and gain the ability to grow by acquiring other insurers in nearby states. Expanding into other geographical areas would allow Empire to exploit economies of scale without threatening competition or taking on worse risks. 
The sticking point on conversion is exactly what to do with the proceeds from Empire's sales of stock. Part of the money will help Empire to cover claims, build new offices and grow. Because the company began as a state-subsidized insurer, it has also agreed to put a big chunk of the proceeds of its stock sales to charitable purposes. Empire, the Greater New York Hospital Association and 1199/ S.E.I.U, the union of health care workers, have jointly suggested that $1 billion of the proceeds be split evenly between the hospitals and a foundation to finance public health research and insurance for poor children. But consumer groups are worried that hospitals would squander the money. The state government may also want a cut. 
If lawmakers in Albany cannot decide what Empire should do with the $1 billion, they could allow it to sell shares immediately and put the proceeds in escrow pending an agreement. But there is no reason to make Empire wait any longer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOSPITALS (85%); CHARITIES (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); HEALTH CARE (78%); CHARITABLE GIVING (78%); TAKEOVERS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (57%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; HEALTH INSURANCE 

COMPANY: EMPIRE BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD (95%)

ORGANIZATION: BLUE CROSS AND BLUE SHIELD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (95%) SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



14 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE COMPANY; 
Rooms Full Of Instruments That No One Is Playing

BYLINE:  By TERRY PRISTIN 

 BODY:
The storage rooms at Carroll Musical Instrument Rentals near Times Square are crammed with pianos, organs, cymbals and timpani that no one is using. The company's telephones, once busy, ring only intermittently. Employees are being asked to come in late or leave early.
 Situated in a modest four-story building, Carroll is several miles from the World Trade Center and does not get most of its customers from the financial district, so one might expect that the company would be affected only lightly by the attack on Sept. 11. Yet the family-owned business, founded in 1945, has been hit hard. 
 Since the attack, it has lost about 130 orders worth thousands of dollars -- everything from a $2,000 job providing drums, organs, keyboards and a sound system for a performance at the New York Hilton to the $95 delivery of a bass fiddle to the Hotel Wellington, also in Midtown.
When a wedding at the Puck Building was canceled, so was the $600 rental of a baby grand piano. A scuttled concert at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine meant a requisition for choral risers was no longer needed, a $500 loss to Carroll.
In the first week after the attack, all 80 customers who had made reservations for one item or another canceled their orders. Business picked up slightly the second week, but it was still off about 40 percent, said Timothy G. Curry, who co-owns Carroll with his brothers Kevin and Raymond. It is not just the sharp decline in tourism that is hurting his business, but also the city's gloomy mood, he said Friday in an interview at his office, which is decorated with posters from Broadway shows that have used the company's services.
"People are finding it hard to smile and be joyful," Mr. Curry said. "That's what entertainment is all about."
Small companies like Carroll represent a big chunk of the New York economy. About 89 percent of the city's businesses have 20 or fewer employees. But they provide work for 700,000 people, about one-fourth of the labor force, said James P. Brown, an economist at the State Department of Labor. Carroll has 24 full-time employees.
Companies dealing with the entertainment industry, of course, are far from alone in experiencing repercussions from the attack. Many bakeries, printers, garment factories and limousine services are also feeling the pinch. "The ripple effects are enormous," said Jonathan Bowles, research director for the Center for an Urban Future, a New York advocacy group. "We're all seeing how closely tied our economy is, not just Lower Manhattan, but citywide and regionally."
Small businesses are the most difficult segment of the economy to track, Mr. Brown said, so it will be a long time before anyone can determine how many have been affected. But if the downturn lasts, many of them will close, he said.
That is not likely to be Carroll's fate, Mr. Curry said. Like a number of other small-business owners, he said he had been trying to stave off layoffs. He said Carroll's staff was always kept lean -- a policy that in normal times allows employees to earn overtime pay.
Shortly after the disaster, he said, he explained to his employees, several of whom have been with the company for 16 years or more, that their weekday hours would be cut back but that they might be able to make up the difference on weekends.
"Hopefully, they will get 40 hours," he said. "If next week, business doesn't pick up," he added, "there's a possibility that layoffs may occur."
But he said he was hopeful that a number of his clients' events would be rescheduled, like one sponsored by Clear Channel Communications, which owns five New York radio stations and was supposed to have held its company party on Sept. 12 on a cruise ship docked at the Chelsea Piers. Clear Channel had ordered $1,100 in electrical and acoustical guitars from Carroll.
The party has been rescheduled for Oct. 25 but moved to the Bowlmor Lanes near Union Square, said David Cercini, the promotion director for WCAA (105.9 FM).
There are other encouraging signs, Mr. Curry said. On Friday afternoon, the company got eight orders, two more than its recent daily average.
"Today is just one day," Mr. Curry said cautiously. "We'll have to see what happens." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (91%); MUSIC (91%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); HIJACKING (75%); GARMENT WORKERS (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (72%); TERRORISM (70%); TRENDS (65%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); APPAREL MFG (50%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS; MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS; RENTING AND LEASING 

ORGANIZATION: CARROLL MUSICAL INSTRUMENT RENTALS (NYC) 

PERSON: PRISTIN, TERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



15 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1544 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Pakistan Says It Consulted U.S. on Nuclear Safety
American military and intelligence officials have talked with Pakistan about installing new safeguards on its nuclear weapons and at its nuclear power plants, Pakistani officials said. But there are some formal limitations on how much assistance the United States can provide, because Pakistan has not signed the treaty to limit the spread of nuclear weapons, and because American law restricts sharing information about nuclear weapons. A3

Catholic Leaders Meet in Rome
Pope John Paul II opened a meeting of bishops from around the world who will spend the next month discussing their role in the church and that of the pope. Some church leaders have argued for more democracy, and the pope has acknowledged that his supreme role in the church has been an obstacle in his campaign to bring Christian faiths closer together. A8

Aid Workers' Trial Resumes
The trial of eight Western aid workers -- two Americans, two Australians and four Germans -- charged with trying to convert people to Christianity resumed in Kabul for the first time since the Sept. 11 attacks. The chief justice of Afghanistan's Supreme Court assured them that they would be treated fairly despite the possibility of American air strikes. A12

Fruit Cakes, Chinese Style
Moon cakes, small round pastries that are the traditional food of today's midautumn festival, have suffered in popularity as the range of food available to the Chinese people has expanded. This year, moon cakes have another problem: exposes in the state press have revealed shocking scenes from some of China's most famous factories, from bosses recycling moldy filler from previous years to workers using their shoes to mix flour. A10

Colombia Talks Canceled
President Andres Pastrana called off planned peace talks with the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, the country's largest rebel group, after soldiers found the body of Consuelo Araujo, the wife of the country's attorney general, one week after she was believed kidnapped by the group. Mr. Pastrana had been expected to announce the extension of rebel control over an enclave in Colombia, officials said. (Reuters)

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Signs of Flood Evoking Noah
Archaeologists have found evidence that appears to support the theory that a catastrophic flood struck the Black Sea region more than 7,000 years ago, turning the sea saline, submerging surrounding plains and possibly inspiring the flood legends of Mesopotamia and the Bible. A14

Bones Used in British Tests
Britain's Atomic Energy Agency acknowledged that thousands of bones were taken from dead babies without parental consent to help ascertain the effect of atmospheric nuclear testing. A6

NATIONAL A16-18

In Shift, Budget Surplus Is Likely to Become Deficit
Analysts say the federal budget surpluses of recent years are likely to give way to a deficit in the fiscal year that starts today. For the coming 12 months, analysts are forecasting that the government at best will balance its books after paying for military action, relief and reconstruction efforts and an economic stimulus package and will probably spend tens of billions of dollars more than it takes in through taxes. A1

Justices Face Divisive Issues
The issues that will dominate the docket for the new Supreme Court term that begins today include public financing for religious education through tuition vouchers; the boundaries of free speech on the Internet; the constitutionality of executing the retarded; the future of affirmative action in federal contracting; the legal definition of disability; and patients' rights to challenge decisions on managed care treatment. The justices have accepted some 50 cases for decision and will add 25 or 30 more over the next few months. A16

Remedy Sought for Noisy Frogs
An informal task force of federal and state officials in Hawaii has been convened to address the problem of noisy tree frogs. It is considering killing the frogs the only way that has proved effective in a laboratory: by spraying acres of their borrowed habitat with concentrated caffeine and a dose of pesticide. A16

California Will Aid the Jobless
Gov. Gray Davis of California has agreed to sign a bill that will increase unemployment benefits beginning next year, senior administration officials said. The current maximum unemployment benefit is $230 per week. The bill would raise the maximum to $330 per week beginning Jan. 1, 2002. By 2005 the maximum benefit would increase to a $450 per week. A16

Ohio Officer's 'Nightmare'
Stephen Roach, a white Cincinnati police officer acquitted in the fatal shooting of an unarmed black man said the outcome of his trial was just but that the shooting had been a "nightmare for everybody." A17

OBITUARIES A20-21

Nguyen Van Thieu
The former president of South Vietnam who led his nation through most of its war against North Vietnam until it was overrun by a Communist offensive in 1975, he was 76. A1

Madhavrao Scindia
A member of one of India's legendary royal families and a senior leader of the opposition Congress Party, he was 56. A21

NEW YORK/REGION A19-21

G.E. Raises Concerns On Order to Dredge River
State officials and environmental groups say they are worried that General Electric is trying to undercut the landmark federal order that the company dredge the Hudson River of poisonous chemicals. Supporters of the dredging plan say they think the company hopes to have the order changed to be so difficult to comply with that the project will be derailed. F1

Firefighters Needed
The New York Fire Department, reeling from its losses in the World Trade Center attack, is pushing 300 more recruits than normal through its training program. It has turned to retirees to augment its depleted ranks and has snapped up fire equipment destined for other cities. And, looking for more ways to protect the lives of firefighters, some chiefs have begun to say the department may have to re-evaluate its longtime mission to fight every fire. F1

Immigrant Health Aid Extended
The Pataki administration, steering clear of a potential lawsuit, has decided to extend a new state-subsidized health insurance program for the working poor to all legal immigrants. The program, known as Family Health Plus and paid for with federal, state and local money, is scheduled to begin today. F2

Mayoral Campaign Heats Up
Fernando Ferrer and Mark Green traded barbs over plans to rebuild Lower Manhattan and whether Mayor Giuliani should be allowed to stay on after his term ends. F3

Commuting Rules Continue
The city's new rules preventing most cars with just one occupant from crossing into Midtown and Lower Manhattan on weekday mornings did cut congestion and will continue indefinitely, officials said. F5

ARTS E1-8

Letterman Leads the Way
At a time of horror and grief, David Letterman, host of the "Late Show" on CBS, has, by almost every account, distinguished himself by going back in front of the public, then gently testing how far comedy could go. He is experiencing something he has never encountered before: gratitude for his willingness to step up and lead. E6

Poetry's Power to Console
In the weeks since the terrorist attacks, people have been consoling themselves -- and one another -- with poetry. E1

SPORTSMONDAY D1-13

A Record in the Marathon
Naoko Takahashi of Japan became the first woman to run 26.2 miles in under 2 hours 20 minutes, setting a world record at the Berlin Marathon. Her winning time was 2 hours 19 minutes 46 seconds, nearly a minute faster than the previous record. D1

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Worries for Auto Industry
The September auto industry slump following the terrorist attacks is expected to reduce the Big Three's combined annual sales to their lowest level in several years and possibly since the early 1990's, several analysts say. C1

New Paradigm for Wall Street
Markets open for trading today in a new quarter and a new world, one where Washington, and not just the Federal Reserve, matters more than it has in many years. C1

Communications and the Court
The Supreme Court begins its term today with a full plate of telecommunications cases. The outcomes could help determine how much consumers will pay for local telephone and high-speed Internet services and how many competitors will be around to provide them. C8

Microsoft Customers Complain
A new software licensing program from Microsoft that goes into effect this week has some corporate customers complaining that they will end paying more and buying upgrades they do not need. C2

Intel to Introduce Laptop Chips
Intel plans today to introduce a dozen new microprocessors into the slowing market for laptop computers. C6

Cell Network to Be Unveiled
NTT DoCoMo, Japan's largest mobile phone operator, will roll out the world's first third-generation cellular phone network today. C6

New Bid for BT Unit
WestLB, the German bank, is preparing to raise an earlier offer for the fixed-line business of British Telecommunications, people close to the discussions said. C8

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: An outpouring of dollars; first Monday; letting Empire go for-profit.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E4
TV Listings E7
Crossword E8
Weather A19
Metro Diary F2

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); BAKED GOODS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (68%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (68%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%); NATURAL DISASTERS (60%); ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%); ROME, ITALY (79%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (66%) UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%); COLOMBIA (93%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (91%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



16 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: States of Readiness: Do New Threats Loom?; 
Stopping Terror

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 "Phony Bomb Threats Flood In After Terrorist Attacks" (news article, Sept. 27) does not mention an important subset of hoaxes. 
There is ample precedent demonstrating that terrorists use hoaxes to erode the vigilance of the authorities, divert the attention of the authorities and gain intelligence on response patterns. 
 Such deception is cost-effective and low-risk. It represents a significant obstacle to intelligence analysts in their attempts to isolate indicators of future terror attacks. Finding more effective ways to combat deception is a daunting challenge and a clear necessity.

SCOTT GERWEHR
Santa Monica, Calif., Sept. 27, 2001

The writer is a policy analyst specializing in deception and psychological operations at the RAND Corporation.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sergio Ruzzier)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INFORMATION WARFARE (88%); HIJACKING (88%); WRITERS (86%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; HOAXES 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%)

PERSON: GERWEHR, SCOTT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



17 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: States of Readiness: Do New Threats Loom?; 
Political Paradoxes

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "House Republican Leaders Balk at Any Help for Laid-Off Workers" (Business Day, Sept. 26): 
 Thanks to Congress for reminding us that not everything changed on Sept. 11. 
With their prompt bailout of the airline industry -- which mercifully allowed chief executives to keep their mammoth salaries -- and their equally prompt refusal to provide aid to the 100,000 airline and aerospace industry workers facing layoffs, our representatives have offered us a reassuring view of business as usual. 
Representative Dick Armey of Texas said calls for extending unemployment benefits and health insurance to these laid-off workers is not "commensurate with the American spirit here."
Indeed.

MAX PAGE
Amherst, Mass., Sept. 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (88%); BAILOUTS (87%); AIRLINES (87%); HIJACKING (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TERRORISM (71%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (51%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FEDERAL AID (US); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

PERSON: PAGE, MAX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



18 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: States of Readiness: Do New Threats Loom?; 
Economic Factors

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Aid for a Terrorized Economy" (editorial, Sept. 28): 
 An additional indirect but major economic effect of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks may be in health care policy. 
The economic slowdown that had dramatically increased unemployment in August has been accelerated by the attack to the point of inducing a full-fledged recession. 
Most Americans who have health insurance get it through their work. When the slowdown began, 43 million Americans had no health insurance. 
As unemployment grows, the families of laid-off workers will add many more millions to the ranks of the uninsured. Perhaps when we get to 50 million or 60 million uninsured, it may at last be politically acceptable to discuss universal health insurance.

JAMES J. FLORIO
Metuchen, N.J., Sept. 28, 2001

The writer was governor of New Jersey, 1990-94.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); HIJACKING (88%); RECESSION (88%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; LABOR; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



19 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: Intel to Offer New Chips Today In Hope of Buoying Laptop Sales 

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
The Intel Corporation plans today to introduce a dozen new microprocessors into the slowing market for laptop computers, including chips that the company says will run small laptops at faster speeds while draining less battery power.
 Intel, the world's largest chip maker, said it had shipped the Pentium III-M chips to computer manufacturers. Analysts expect to see laptops incorporating the new chips as early the middle of this month. 
 Separately, Advanced Micro Devices, a competitor in chips for desktop computers and fast laptops, plans to announce today that it began shipping a 1.1-gigahertz version of its Duron chip. Computers running the Duron, which challenges Intel's Celeron processor in the lower end of the chip market, will be available in the fourth quarter, the company said.
The new Intel products include a slightly faster version of its high-end chip, six new versions of its low-end Celeron processor and cooler-running chips designed for laptops that weigh less than four pounds, a category led by Intel's smaller mobile-chip rival, Transmeta.
The announcement today will increase the so-called clock speed of the fastest mobile processor to 1.2 gigahertz, or 1.2 billion cycles a second in normal mode, from 1.1 gigahertz. The clock speed slows to 800 megahertz, or 800 million cycles a second, running on batteries alone.
Laptop sales have suffered from decreased corporate spending, though not as badly as desktop sales. Manufacturers shipped 1.3 percent more laptops in the United States in the second quarter than in the period a year earlier, while desktop shipments declined 14 percent, according to the International Data Corporation, a market research firm. Desktops outsell laptops by about 3 to 1.
But while laptop sales are still increasing over all, demand for so-called ultra-light computers -- which include only a disk drive and usually have smaller keyboards and screens -- fell 33 percent.
These smaller computers have enjoyed some success in Japan but have not really caught on in the United States, where only 130,000 were shipped in the second quarter.
"Given the state of the economy, they're being overlooked for notebooks of lower average selling prices," said Alan Promisel, an analyst with International Data.
Frank E. Spindler, an Intel vice president and general manager of the mobile platforms group, acknowledged that "the mobile PC space is not immune to the business environment," but said that declining prices and the increasing popularity of wireless networking would drive laptop sales. 
Prices of the new mobile chips range from $99 for the slowest Celeron to $722 for the fastest Pentium III-M, when bought in batches of 1,000. Advanced Micro's Duron chip will cost $103, the same as the comparable Intel Celeron.
Intel has engaged Advanced Micro in a price war in the desktop chip market, even as it extends its lead in clock speed. In an invitation sent to reporters on Friday for a coming news conference, Advanced Micro said that the industry should no longer use clock speed to measure overall performance. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (94%); COMPUTER CHIPS (92%); MICROPROCESSORS (91%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); DESKTOP COMPUTERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (76%); PRICE CUTTING (69%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (67%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (63%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (61%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (92%); INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: INTEL CORP; ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC 

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (92%); AMD (FRA) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (81%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (81%) SIC3679 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS; SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: GAITHER, CHRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



20 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
Solidifying trademarkprotection in a global market, where logos can transcend language.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
AS executives of all types try to come to grips with the business and economic fallout of last month's terrorist attacks, Nils Montan's line of work might not seem to command much urgency just now. And that may say a lot about the difficulties of returning to business as usual in the currently tense international climate.
 Mr. Montan, you see, is the guy who sticks up for Superman. And for Batman, Bugs Bunny, the Flintstones and Scooby Doo, among others. As senior intellectual property counsel for AOL Time Warner's Warner Brothers unit, Mr. Montan ensures that those lucrative trademarks are not exploited by counterfeiters or unwitting artists who assume that those familiar characters belong to their adoring public. 
 And just because they are American icons does not mean those brands' value is derived only in the United States. They are money-makers all over the world, and the sums they earn are likely to increase with the spread of the Internet and other digital technologies. 
The same can be said for most trademarks. In a global economy, creating a recognizable brand that can cross language and cultural borders is critical to manufacturers, businesses and those who create the much ballyhooed "content" that fills software, computers, television, hand-held devices, cellular phones and the Internet. 
The globalization of the trademark business is the reason the United States Trademark Association changed its name to the International Trademark Association a few years ago. And it is why all trademark holders can join the group, based in Manhattan, even if they do not own a mark registered in this country. Tsingtao, the Chinese beer brewer (which owns many other marks), recently joined the group, for example. 
The International Trademark Association has about 4,000 members in 150 countries -- companies, institutions or intellectual property professionals like law firms. In May, Mr. Montan was elected president of the association. And most of the issues he is tackling have been high on the group's agenda for several years. With the United States contemplating overseas military action, though, that agenda is not necessarily high on anyone else's list of priorities.
"We represent trademark owners wherever they may be," Mr. Montan explained. When his organization lobbies foreign governments, lawmakers and businesses, members from those countries go along so it is clear that the group is advocating what Mr. Montan called "trademarks without borders." 
"In some respects, we're not a special pleader for American industry," he said. "We hope to serve their interests, but we hope the two goals will coincide." 
In the last several years the association has dedicated itself to convincing governments that trademark enforcement and anti-counterfeiting measures are critical to everyone. 
"It's one thing to have laws on the books," said Mr. Montan, who recently published his own book on anti-counterfeiting in Asia, where China, for example, only recently cracked down on CD, video and DVD forgers. "But we have to educate policy makers abroad about the benefits of enforcing trademarks and how that is good for their economy." 
The group is also concerned about protecting trademarks as the seven new domain categories for Internet addresses are introduced. The trademark association worries about a possible "land rush" that might result as the new designations -- like .biz and .info -- become available, along with 245 new country codes. 
"In the last five years, we've been working on Internet and online issues," Mr. Montan said. "The main problem here is trademark hijacking by cybersquatters and others, and confusion among the public." 
The United States passed anti-cybersquatting laws, aimed at speculators who take online names that rightfully belong to someone else, but "a lot of jurisdictions around the world are just starting to deal with this," Mr. Montan added. For his group, that means a big push to send policy makers the message: enact and enforce laws that will protect trademarks, whether they belong to a mom-and-pop business, Warner or Tsingtao. 
Another issue has been on the association's front burner for several years -- for about as long as it has languished in Congress. The group is pushing lawmakers to ratify an international trademark treaty that creates a one-stop registration process.
Under the treaty (which dozens of other nations have already signed), a trademark holder would be able to register, update or renew a mark, or pay fees, in one country. Previously, an owner had to file separate sets of papers in every country where he wanted protection. The treaty has been held up in Congress by secondary disputes over provisions attached to the legislation, but those seem to be resolved -- or they did before the Sept. 11 attacks put most things in Congress on hold. 
"It's never over till it's signed," Mr. Montan said. "There must be some slogan like that in Washington." 
But such business as usual, for Congress and the International Trademark Association, will have to wait a bit longer. 
On the morning of Sept. 11, Mr. Montan and Alan Drewsen, the association's executive director, were preparing to fly from New York to Washington to raise these issues with policy makers and members of Congress, and for the group's board meeting. That morning, Mr. Montan was walking toward the association's office on Avenue of the Americas in Midtown Manhattan when he noticed that people around him were looking up at the sky. 
He reached the office in time to see television coverage of the second plane crashing into the World Trade Center. Fortunately, the 45 people who work at the association were out of harm's way. 
But there was no question that a trip to Washington would have to be put off. Shuttle flights and trains were canceled, board members were stranded, and Congress shut down. Stunned and horrified like countless other executives, Mr. Drewsen and Mr. Montan set their immediate agenda aside. 
Mr. Montan flew back to Los Angeles on Friday, Sept. 14, to attend to his duties at Warner Brothers. Mr. Drewsen continues to keep the International Trademark Association office running in Manhattan. 
But right now, protecting trademarks is not the highest priority for the world's governments or businesses.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Warner Brothers) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARK LAW (93%); TRADEMARKS (90%); NEW ECONOMY (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); BRANDING (75%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (75%); BRAND EQUITY (75%); LOBBYING (73%); BEER & ALE (73%); ENTERPRISE GLOBALIZATION (73%); TERRORISM (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BREWERIES (71%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (69%); COUNTERFEITING (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (65%); LEGAL SERVICES (62%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (51%) TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: AOL INC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL TRADEMARK ASSOCIATION (82%) INTERNATIONAL TRADEMARK ASSN 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (71%)

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA; MONTAN, NILS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



21 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: NTT DoCoMo Introduces New Generation Cellphone Service 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
NTT DoCoMo, Japan's largest mobile phone operator, will introduce the world's first third-generation cellular phone network Monday, hoping to thwart skeptics and solidify its shaky grip on the country's $70 billion wireless market. 
 The new service, at first available only in the metropolitan Tokyo area, promises Internet connections up to 40 times faster than current phones so users can download audio and video files onto their handsets. 
 Carriers around the world will intently watch consumers' response to DoCoMo's new service, because wireless companies elsewhere have spent about $100 billion on radio spectrum to offer their own versions. But with enthusiasm for new gadgets cooling and investors unwilling to finance the network expansions needed to offer third-generation -- or 3G -- services, carriers in Europe and the United States are delaying or scaling back their plans. 
DoCoMo, which delayed the introduction by six months to do additional testing, expects to attract 200,000 new customers for the phones in the first year. Subscribers would spend about 10,000 yen ($84) a month for the service, about 20 percent more than current users.
The company, which has nearly 40 million subscribers overall, plans to spend one trillion yen ($8.4 billion) in each of the next three years to expand the service nationwide. It does not expect to turn a profit on the service until 2004.
"The migration from second-generation to third-generation phones will revolutionize telecommunications, so the first company to launch the new technology will face the highest risks," said Keiji Tachikawa, chief executive of NTT DoComo.
The company created a sensation last year with its Internet-enabled phone service, I-mode, that allows customers to surf the Web and send and receive e-mail. DoCoMo, too, is widely thought to have the most stylish phones and the best Web sites designed for its service, a big reason it commands about 57 percent of Japan's wireless market.
But like most telecommunications companies, DoCoMo has been hurt by slowing demand for new phones, which are made for its service by NEC, Matsushita, Mitsubishi, Sanyo and Sony. As Japan's recession has sapped spending on non-essential items, shipments of cellular phones have fallen two straight months and new subscriptions are growing by single digits. DoCoMo also grappled with two recalls this year of faulty handsets.
So far, the snags have not forced the company to clip back its earnings projections, although it does expect to write down its 16 percent stake in the American company AT&T Wireless Services, which has lost 36 percent of its market value since DoCoMo bought it. 
DoCoMo's Japanese rivals have not been so lucky. On Friday, the nation's No. 2 mobile company, KDDI, cut its full-year net profit forecasts 45 percent, to 35 billion yen ($292 million). The company will probably sign up only 1.25 million new subscribers this year, a quarter less than originally forecast.
"I thought they'd miss their forecasts, but not by that much," said Mark Berman, a telecommunications analyst for Credit Suisse First Boston, who says the company is losing money by focusing on budget-conscious customers like students. 
KDDI also delayed the start of its third-generation phone service until April, as did the No. 3 carrier, Japan Telecom, which operates the J-Phone group. KDDI must coordinate with Motorola, which supplies its network equipment; Qualcomm, which provide chipsets for the phones; and the handset makers Sanyo Electric, Toshiba and Hitachi. 
J-Phone, however, has proven more resilient than KDDI. Although Japan Telecom slashed this year's profit forecasts by a third, J-Phone captured nearly 35 percent of all new subscriptions in August, more than twice as many as KDDI. J-Phone's newest phones run Java software for the Internet, which allows for more intricate graphics and video games. The company's deep discounting has also attracted new customers. 
J-Phone will also get assistance from the Vodafone Group, Europe's largest mobile-phone company, which owns 45 percent of Japan Telecom, and wants to increase that stake to 66.7 percent in the coming months. Analysts say Vodafone will improve J-Phone's marketing and finances, and may sell off Japan Telecom's less profitable fixed-line division. 
Japanese telecommunications stocks, which were pummeled earlier this year, have rallied since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks in the United States, as investors have sought companies with steady cash flow and largely domestic businesses. NTT DoCoMo and Japan Telecom shares have soared more than 30 percent in the last three weeks.
KDDI's profit downgrade, however, sent the company's stock plunging 11.4 percent on Friday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (94%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (93%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (92%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); WIRELESS NETWORKS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (86%); COMPANY EARNINGS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (78%); 3G WIRELESS (78%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (78%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); CUSTOMER ACQUISITION STRATEGY (71%); WEB DEVELOPMENT (69%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (63%); WEB SITES (63%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: NTT DOCOMO INC (98%); AT&T MOBILITY LLC (85%); AT&T INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NTT DOCOMO 

TICKER: NDCM (LSE) (98%); DCM (NYSE) (98%); 9437 (TSE) (98%); T (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (98%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (98%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (85%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (84%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (84%)

PERSON: BELSON, KEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%) JAPAN; TOKYO (JAPAN); EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



22 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Resume, but Industry OutlookSeems Worrisome 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich., Sept. 29 

 BODY:
David Jaroszewicz is doing his part to revive the economy. Under a nearly cloudless Saturday sky here, between Detroit and Ann Arbor, he is selling cars again. Mr. Jaroszewicz surveys the few clusters of couples, some drawn by General Motors' new zero percent financing, twisting through a field of Grand Prixs and Grand Ams under a towering American flag.
 This, at least, is progress. In the days after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, sales at Suburban Pontiac-Buick-GMC of Ypsilanti, where Mr. Jaroszewicz works as a salesman, and throughout the country virtually halted. "There was nothing," he said, while selling a customer a diesel truck. 
 The auto industry slump is not good news for a nation that many economists think is headed into a recession. If cars and trucks do not sell, the problems cascade from dealerships to carmakers to suppliers. Jobs are lost, plants closed, and the economy braces for the impact. "It's impossible to have a sick auto industry and a healthy economy," said Art Spinella, a consultant with CNW Marketing Research in Bandon, Ore. "The two are inseparable." 
The September auto industry slump following the terrorist attacks is expected to reduce the Big Three's combined annual sales to their lowest level in several years and possibly since the early 1990's, several analysts say. Wall Street and Washington will be watching closely on Tuesday when the industry reports sales figures, providing some of the first monthly economic data since the attacks. 
In the days after Sept. 11, a nation that loves to buy lost its appetite, especially for big purchases. "It really stigmatized the whole car-purchasing process," said Mr. Jaroszewicz, a pen clipped to his collar, a cellphone in a holster on his belt. "I had to lighten up people, start cracking jokes to get people buying cars again. We can't live in the past. We have to get out of this funk, or we're done like dinner."
Economists agree. The fortunes of G.M., Ford and the Chrysler Group were in decline before Sept. 11. Now the forces already at work -- rising unemployment, depressed stock prices, a glutted auto market and increasing marketing costs -- have worsened conditions for domestic automakers at a time they are losing market share to foreign competitors. If there is any good news, it is that the passage of time and a wave of new incentives has brought some customers back. 
"It was the furthest thing from my mind last week, buying a car," said Jereme Brown, 21, a specialist in computer-aided design. Saturday was the first day Mr. Brown and his wife, Mikel, resumed their search. 
"We were looking a month or two ago," Mr. Brown said, but after the attacks "it was kind of hard to think about anything else." Ms. Brown, 20, said they "watched a lot of TV, listened to the radio, cried."
But now, Mr. Brown said, "We're getting back in the swing of things." 
According to John Casesa, a Merrill Lynch analyst, the auto industry is only beginning a sales slump that he expects to hit bottom in 2003. "I think this is going to be very severe," he said. "It is very much like the early 90's. You had an already cautious consumer, a saturated auto market and now an event that pulls the rug out from under confidence." 
Not all analysts and economists are so pessimistic. Many expect that the Federal Reserve's eight interest rate cuts after will in time have powerful effects on businesses and consumers. "Once you get to the second half of 2002," said Diane C. Swonk, chief economist at Bank One, "there's just so much money coming into the pipeline that this economy is poised to do well." 
But most analysts have sharply scaled back their sales estimates. Mr. Casesa of Merrill projects this year's overall United States sales, including those by foreign automakers, at 16.2 million cars and light trucks, short of last year's record of 17.3 million. Stephen J. Girsky of Morgan Stanley sees overall sales of 16.1 million this year and 15.2 million in 2002, but thinks that sales will be hard to predict until the political and military implications from the attacks are clearer.
The outlook for the Big Three seems particularly soft. Mr. Casesa thinks they will sell 10.4 million vehicles this year, the fewest since 1993, while analysts at Prudential Securities project the lowest sales since 1992. David Healy of Burnham Securities sees Big Three sales of 10.8 million, the lowest level since 1997.
To help avert trouble, two top Bush administration officials met with auto industry executives after the attacks, urging that they do their best to invigorate car buying.
G.M. announced some zero-percent financing plans for all its new cars and trucks, and was quickly followed by Ford and Chrysler. Such additional incentives have succeeded, but at a cost. "They've upped the incentive ante and that seems to be working," Mr. Girsky said. "But that poses the other question, that nobody is making any money with marketing costs this high."
Analysts give several reasons that the Big Three are likely to suffer the most. Predictions are gloomy for car rental companies, which do much of their business at airports, and the Big Three rely more on sales to rental companies than foreign automakers do. Production at domestic assembly plants was hampered by parts shortages after the shutdown of air traffic for several days and by shipping bottlenecks at the borders. And the Big Three, by their own admission, were already relying too heavily on incentives. 
Ford, G.M. and Chrysler all cut production in the first quarter and have been ceding market share to foreign producers as the sale of sport utility vehicles becomes increasingly competitive. Chrysler embarked on a turnaround plan in February that includes closing six plants worldwide and reducing its work force by 26,000 over three years. Last Friday, Chrysler said it might fail to meet its fourth-quarter financial goals. 
G.M., which said last December that it would discontinue its Oldsmobile line and cut 10 percent, or about 6,600, of its 66,000 salaried workers as well as 11,000 contract workers, briefly closed some plants after the attacks and has revised its sales projections for the industry.
Ford, suffering from problems related to rollovers of Explorer vehicles, which it attributes to faulty Firestone tires, already planned cutbacks. Since the attacks, the company has said it will cut production by 110,000 to 120,000 vehicles further.
This week, the Big Three will temporarily lay off almost 18,000 workers at seven plants in Maryland, Missouri and Georgia as well as in Canada. Inevitably, these cutbacks will cause auto suppliers, who now account for much of the industry, to idle employees at their own plants. 
"When Ford shuts down Ranger production, the people in those plants that work on Ranger parts don't work," said Susan Skerker, a senior vice president of Visteon, referring to a Ford pickup truck. Visteon is a giant automotive supplier that was spun off from Ford last year. 
Some Michigan residents now want to do their best to give the auto industry a lift. John Betts, 54, works for a forklift company that supplies the Big Three. In the days after Sept. 11, he watched the celebrity telethon, called in a donation, and saw a few thousand dollars disappear from the value of his 401(k) account. But he kept shopping on car lots that were otherwise empty. 
'It's bad about what happened," he said, "but what can you do. You've got to spend money or the economy really is going to go into the dumper." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); NEW CAR DEALERS (77%); MARKET SHARE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TERRORISM (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (69%); MISSING PERSONS (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (50%) AUTOMOBILES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; SALES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (84%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); OREGON, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



23 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1197 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
The industry sees changes in big accounts, but also layoffs and profit warnings.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
AS Madison Avenue slowly seeks a return to business as usual -- whatever that may now mean -- agencies are being affected by changes in accounts for large advertisers like the Coca-Cola Company and the Burger King Corporation, with billings estimated at $575 million.
 But normality these days includes profit warnings and layoffs, too, as several announcements late last week underscored the fragility of the advertising economy. 
 The growing uncertainty about world events, which is causing many marketers to delay or reduce ad spending, was the reason given on Friday by the Cordiant Communications Group in London to warn of a "significant reduction in profitability" for 2001.
Planned layoffs at Cordiant are being increased by 75 percent, to 700 of its estimated 10,000 employees worldwide from a previous goal of 400. 
Cordiant was not alone in making staff cutbacks. Dismissals at five other agencies will cost an estimated 525 people their jobs in coming weeks, including the Chicago office of Campbell Mithun, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of the Interpublic Group of Companies; Goodby, Silverstein & Partners in San Francisco, owned by the Omnicom Group; iXL in Atlanta; Media Passage in Seattle, which closed; and Modem Media in Norwalk, Conn., partly owned by Interpublic. The layoffs were reported by the online editions of the trade publications Advertising Age and Adweek.
As for the account changes, the largest involve Coca-Cola, which is realigning its agency roster for creative assignments, consolidating almost all those tasks at agencies owned by Interpublic and the WPP Group. The total billings involved are estimated at $250 million.
The shifts, to be formally announced this week, will come soon after the principal Coca-Cola rival, the Pepsi-Cola division of PepsiCo, realigned its agency roster by dismissing divisions of Interpublic and consolidating most assignments at agencies owned by Omnicom.
Interpublic is in essence being compensated for the accounts shifted by Pepsi-Cola, which had billings estimated at $200 million.
Foote, Cone & Belding, part of the FCB Group division of Interpublic, will be awarded creative tasks for Powerade sports beverages, handled only since May by Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore. Billings were estimated at as much as $60 million. Powerade will replace the Gatorade sports-beverages account, which the Foote, Cone Chicago office lost in the Pepsi-Cola consolidation.
Another brand handled by Wieden & Kennedy, Diet Coke, is returning to Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide in New York, part of the Partnership division of Interpublic, which lost it to Wieden & Kennedy in late 1998. Those billings were estimated at $50 million.
Creative tasks for Sprite, the lemon-lime soft drink, at Lowe Lintas and predecessor agencies for at least 15 years, are being shifted to the New York office of Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, part of WPP. Billings were estimated at $85 million. Ogilvy also gains creative tasks for the Fanta line of fruit-flavored soft drinks, previously divided among various agencies.
The Sprite and Fanta assignments add Ogilvy, and WPP, to the Coca-Cola roster. Sir Martin Sorrell, chief executive at WPP, and Shelly Lazarus, chairwoman and chief executive at Ogilvy, have impressed Steven J. Heyer, who recently joined Coca-Cola as executive vice president.
Wieden & Kennedy will also lose the rest of its creative accounts, including Barq's root beer and campaigns with sports themes for Coca-Cola Classic. The new home for Barq's is not known; the sports account is likely to be headed to the lead creative agency for Coca-Cola Classic, McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising in New York, part of the World Group division of Interpublic.
Other agencies Coca-Cola will drop include two owned by the Bcom3 Group. One is Leo Burnett Worldwide in Chicago, which created ads for Minute Maid juices and juice drinks and seasonal ads for Coca-Cola Classic.
The Coca-Cola work is likely to go to McCann-Erickson. It is not clear which agency will inherit Minute Maid, with billings estimated at $40 million, handled by Burnett since 1996. Foote, Cone is a good guess because until the Pepsi-Cola consolidation, its New York office handled Minute Maid's principal competitor, the Tropicana brand of juices and juice drinks.
The other Bcom3 agency being dismissed is the New York office of D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, which created campaigns centered on the Coca-Cola Classic sponsorship of Nascar racing. That too is probably on its way to McCann-Erickson.
There had been widespread speculation that a smaller shop on the Coca-Cola creative roster, Berlin Cameron & Partners in New York, would also be dismissed. But Andy Berlin, chairman, said on Friday, "We retain our assignments," for Dasani bottled water, Nestea Cool tea drinks and the Mello Yello and Pibb soft drinks.
Turning to Burger King, part of Diageo, it is unexpectedly parting ways with the New York office of McCann-Erickson, which had handled for only nine months the assignment to create general market campaigns aimed at adults. Billings were estimated at $200 million.
Rather than use one agency for creative tasks, said Richard Taylor, vice president for global advertising and promotion at Burger King in Miami, the company would shift to "a new structure where a variety of creative resources will be called upon" from the Interpublic family. He confirmed a report of the decision in the online edition of Adweek.
The changes came a month after Burger King named Howard Draft, chairman and chief executive at its promotional agency, Draft Worldwide in Chicago -- part of the Partnership division of Interpublic -- to coordinate the entire Burger King account, including advertising, promotions and public relations. Two Draft divisions developed a big instant-win game, "Cash Is King," to be introduced today by Burger King.
Indeed, as Burger King expands its relationships with Interpublic agencies other than McCann-Erickson, Mr. Taylor said, Draft will add promotional programs outside the United States to its current tasks. Also, Octagon, part of the Partnership division, will be hired for sports marketing assignments, and Weber Shandwick, part of the Advanced Marketing Services division, will be hired for public relations assignments. The Minneapolis office of Campbell Mithun continues to create campaigns aimed at children.
Finally, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta named several agencies to handle assignments for a national campaign to discuss health issues with children ages 9 to 13. Total spending was estimated at $125 million.
Three agencies are part of the Publicis Groupe: Frankel in Chicago, the lead agency on the account, for assignments including promotions and online ads; Publicis Dialog in Chicago, for public relations; and Saatchi & Saatchi in New York, for creative tasks, research and media planning and buying.
Two multicultural agencies will also work on the account: A Partnership in New York, for ads aimed at Asian-American youths, and Garcia LKS in San Antonio, for ads aimed at Latino youths. The decision came after a seven-month review that been narrowed several times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); SOFT DRINKS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (89%); SPORTS DRINKS (89%); FAST FOOD (77%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); DISMISSALS (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (72%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (65%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (65%) ADVERTISING; ACCOUNT CHANGES; SOFT DRINKS; RESTAURANTS; PROFITS (INDUSTRY-WIDE); LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO (95%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (94%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); PEPSI-COLA OF MADISON (85%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (85%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (84%); WIEDEN & KENNEDY INC (84%); WPP PLC (74%); BURGER KING WORLDWIDE INC (72%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (69%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (57%); GOODBY SILVERSTEIN & PARTNERS (55%); PEPSICO INC (53%); DRAFTFCB INC (52%); TAPSA AGENCIA DE PUBLICIDAD SL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO; BURGER KING CORP 

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (95%); IPG (NYSE) (94%); OMC (NYSE) (85%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (74%); WPP (LSE) (74%); BKW (NYSE) (72%); PEP (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (94%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (94%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); SIC5149 GROCERIES & RELATED PRODUCTS, NEC (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (74%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (74%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (74%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (72%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (72%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (53%) SIC2087 OTHER FLAVORING EXTRACTS & SYRUPS; SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



24 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Offerings Set for This Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week included today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and a four-week bill on Tuesday.
 At the close of the New York cash market on Friday, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was at 2.32 percent; the rate on the six-month issue at 2.32 percent and the rate on the four-week issue at 2.21 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAXABLE
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Conoco Funding, $2.5 billion in global bond, Baa1/ BBB+/---. CS First Boston; J.P. Morgan Securities and Salomon Smith Barney.
(Source: MCM CorporateWatchpls leave)
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.

TAX EXEMPT
TUESDAY
State of Minnesota, $355 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
State of Pennsylvania, $301 million of general obligation. Competitive.

WEDNESDAY
New Jersey Education Facilities Authority, $87.4 million of revenue bonds. Compeititive.

TAX EXEMPT
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Catholic Healthcare Initiative Colorado, Ohio, $350 million of debt securities for Kentucky. UBS Paine Webber.
City of Chicago, $75 million of second lien wastewater transmission revenue refunding bonds. Dain Rauscher Inc.
City of Oakland, California, $190 million of tax pension obligations. Morgan Stanley.
Connecticut Housing Finance Authority, $150 million of debt securities. UBS Paine Webber Inc.
DeKalb County, Georgia Special Recreation Tax District, $125 million of general obligation bonds. Morgan Keegan & Co.
Frisco, Tex., $58 million of obligation bonds. SWS Securities.
Illinois, $50 million of health bonds for Loyola University. Salomon Smith Barney.
Illinois Sports Facilities Authority, $399 million of sports facilities bonds. George K. Baum & Co.
Kissimmee Utility Authority, Florida, $80 million of debt securities. J.P. Morgan Securities.
Maine Municipal Bond Bank, $69 million of debt obligation bonds. UBS Paine Webber Inc.
Michigan State Hospital Finance Authority, $80 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Pennsylvania Higher Education, $97 million of debt securities for temple university. Morgan Stanley.
San Bernadino, Calif., $92 million of certificate of participation. Bear, Stearns & Co.
Texas Housing, $98 million of debt securities. Salomon Smith Barney.
Wisconsin Health & Educational Facilities Authority, $55 million of revenue bonds for marshfield clinic. Ziegler Capital Markets Group. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (87%); SCHOOL BONDS (87%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); HEALTH CARE (71%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (70%); HOSPITALS (66%); SPORTS (63%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (63%); SPORTS & RECREATION (63%) STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (69%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (67%); MORGAN KEEGAN & CO INC (66%); GEORGE K BAUM & CO (65%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (55%); KISSIMMEE UTILITY AUTHORITY INC (53%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (52%); ZIEGLER CAPITAL MARKETS GROUP (51%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (69%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (67%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (68%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (53%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



25 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Slew of Supreme Court Cases to Focus on'96 Telecom Law 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
The Supreme Court begins its term on Monday with a full plate of telecommunications cases that lawyers say demonstrate the shortcomings of the landmark 1996 law that was supposed to deregulate the industry and introduce competition to telephone markets long dominated by monopolies.
 The 10 lawsuits, broadly consolidated into three sets of cases that will be argued beginning this week, present significant questions about the costs of local telephone and high-speed Internet services. 
 The outcomes could help determine how much consumers will pay for such services in the years to come, and how many competitors will be around to provide them.
In the last year, many would-be competitors have filed for bankruptcy or gone out of business, in some instances citing the economic legacy of the 1996 law. Paradoxically, it was the same law that allowed them to come into existence. 
One set of cases challenges the vital though arcane accounting methods the government uses in setting rates for rival local phone companies that rely on the networks and equipment of the regional Bell companies.
A second set involves important issues about an old regulatory scheme that treats telephone and cable services completely differently at a time when these technologies are converging and both are being used to supply high-speed Internet services. 
A third set may resolve the constitutional question of whether federal courts have the authority to review the decisions of state utility regulators, an issue that has led to conflicting rulings by federal appeals courts.
The cases, which arise as appointees in the Bush administration have been moving toward further deregulation, also demonstrate the shortcomings of the Telecommunications Act of 1996. More than five years after supporters of the law said it would revolutionize competition in the telephone industry, local markets are still dominated by four regional Bell companies, which have repeatedly filed lawsuits challenging both the law and the way it has been enforced.
By all accounts, Congress did little to head off such suits, drafting what most experts consider to be one of the sloppiest laws on the books.
"It would be gross understatement to say that the 1996 act is not a model of clarity," Justice Antonin Scalia wrote for the majority of the court in an earlier version of the telephone network rate cases that will be heard again in 10 days. "It is in many important respects a model of ambiguity or indeed even self-contradiction. That is most unfortunate for a piece of legislation that profoundly affects a crucial segment of the economy worth tens of billions of dollars."
Seth P. Waxman, a former solicitor general in the Clinton administration, who argued cases involving the act, was more succinct. 
"It is the single most poorly drafted statute ever enacted by Congress," he said in an interview. He recalled a telling incident during the oral argument in the earlier case decided by Justice Scalia, in which the justice expressed jocular skepticism after William P. Barr, the general counsel of Verizon and former United States attorney general, began his oral presentation by referring to the "plain language of the statute."
"There is no plain language in that statute," Mr. Waxman said. "It is the product of extended negotiations among telecom lobbyists, each trying to get a little something to bring back to their clients."
In the telephone cases, the court will review which accounting method is most appropriate for determining how much the regional Bell operating companies should be permitted to charge smaller companies that lease equipment in markets regulators have struggled to try opening to competition.
Charging too much would effectively kill competition, while charging too little, the Bell operating companies say, could cripple them. The Bell companies, which control more than 90 percent of the local markets, have been engaged in a fierce legal and regulatory battle over the method to be used in calculating how much they can charge to lease access to their network equipment. The newer, smaller companies say that battle has brought years of uncertainty over the rules and made it difficult for them to raise investments that are vital to such a capital-intensive industry.
"The Bell companies have appealed virtually every decision of the F.C.C. and the states to enforce the telecommunications act," said John D. Windhausen Jr., president of the Association for Local Telecommunications Services, a trade group that represents the competitive local exchange carriers. Some of the group's members are parties in the cases now before the court. 
"It's been a constant barrage of litigation because they don't like competition," Mr. Windhausen said. "They are trying to slow us down and tie up the rules. That's slowed our ability to connect with the telecom network and it's slowed our ability to attract capital in the markets and it's slowed our ability to deliver services to consumers."
Christopher J. Wright, a former general counsel at the F.C.C. who helped draft the regulations at issue in the cases, said the litigation "has had a bad effect on the competitive process."
"Congress in 1996 gave the F.C.C. six months to write these regulations," he said. "Now, more than five years later, the courts are still interpreting them. Would-be competitors need to raise money and have some sense of certainty. There hasn't been certainty for more than five years."
The court will review the proper method to calculate the fees the Bell companies can charge their rivals. After the telecommunications act was adopted, the F.C.C. issued accounting regulations outlining how the Bell companies were to calculate the price of leases to competitors. The regulations were necessary because it is too expensive for start-ups to build their own networks and they must instead rely on the components already created by the Bell companies.
Last year, a federal appeals court in St. Louis struck down an important provision in the F.C.C. rules. The provision had based the calculation of the lease prices on the "efficient replacement cost of existing technology" -- in other words the value of the equipment if it were replaced with new, more efficient and often less expensive equipment, rather than the higher prices the Bells had actually paid for the gear over the years. The Bells' rivals had preferred calculations based on the forward-looking replacement costs, which were generally lower. 
The telephone network cases, Verizon Communications v. F.C.C., No. 00-511, will be heard on Oct. 10.
In the high-speed Internet case, the court will review the application of a 1977 law, the Pole Attachments Act, which gave the F.C.C. the authority to regulate the rates that utilities can charge cable television operators to string their wires on utility poles. The agency then decided to apply that authority to regulate fees for using poles by cable companies that also provide high-speed, or broadband, Internet services.
Last year, in a challenge filed by a group of utilities, a federal appeals panel said the F.C.C. did not have the authority to regulate such fees. Since that decision, some utility companies have sharply raised their pole-attachment rates, charging what government officials say is the equivalent of monopoly rents.
The Gulf Power Company, one of the companies to file the original challenge, raised its annual attachment rate to $38.06 per pole from $6.20. Alabama Power has raised its rates to $38.81 a pole from $7.47.
Mr. Waxman said the case also presented the court with an opportunity to clarify whether broadband Internet service is a cable service or a telecommunications service. The distinction is crucial because cable companies are significantly less regulated by the F.C.C. than are telecommunications services providers. 
This group of cases, National Cable and Telecom v. Gulf Power, No. 00-832, will be heard on Tuesday.
In the third set of cases, the court will decide whether state regulators who set phone rates can be sued in federal courts or whether those courts do not have jurisdiction because of the 11th Amendment. It raises an important constitutional question, because the 11th Amendment, which had largely been ignored until recent years, generally limits the states from being sued in federal court.
Earlier this year a federal appeals court for the Fourth Circuit, in Maryland, held that a provision of the telecommunications act that grants federal courts the jurisdiction to review rate decisions by state regulators was a violation of the 11th Amendment.
Breaking with four other appeals courts, the Fourth Circuit found that the provision is "an affront to state sovereignty."
As a practical matter, Mr. Wright said, many lawyers believe that federal courts are less likely to be deferential to state regulatory commissions than state courts are. Moreover, he said, the law is more likely to be applied consistently if decisions are reviewed in the federal system, making it easier to provide telecommunications service in multiple states. 
The cases, to be heard by the court on Dec. 5, are Mathias v. WorldCom Technologies, No. 00-878, and Verizon Maryland v. Public Service Commission, No. 00-1531.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Reviewing the Telecommunications Act"Beginning this week, the Supreme Court will hear three groups of cases involving the Telecommunications Act of 1996. The cases could affect consumer phone and Internet access rates. High-speed Internet access cases -- TUESDAY, OCT. 2Consolidated under: National Cable and Telecom v. Gulf Power, No. 00-832The court will review the application of a 1977 law, amended by the 1996 act, that gave the F.C.C. the authority to regulate the rates that utilities can charge cable television operators for the use of the utility poles. The agency then applied that authority to regulate fees for using poles charged to cable companies that also provide high-speed Internet services. Last year, a federal appeals panel said that the F.C.C. did not have the authority to regulate such fees. Officials say that since that decision, some utilities have sharply raised their pole-attachment rates. Telephone network rate cases -- WEDNESDAY, OCT. 10Consolidated under: Verizon Communications v. Federal Communications Commission, No. 00-511The court will review which accounting method is the most appropriate in determining how much the regional Bell operating companies charge newer, smaller competitors to lease the Bells' network. Suing states in federal courts -- WEDNESDAY, DEC. 5Mathias v. Worldcom Technologies, No. 00-878; Verizon Maryland vs. Public Service Commission, No. 00-1531The court will decide whether state regulators who set phone rates can be sued in federal courts or whether those courts do not have jurisdiction because of the 11th Amendment. That amendment generally limits the states from being sued in federal court. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); SUPREME COURTS (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); BROADBAND (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LITIGATION (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); INTERVIEWS (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; TELEVISION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); STATES (US) 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%) SUPREME COURT (US); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

PERSON: ANTONIN SCALIA (58%) LABATON, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



26 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
With New Paradigm, Rattled Wall Street Looks to Washington

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Markets open for trading today in a new quarter and a new world, one where Washington, and not just the Federal Reserve, matters more than it has in many years.
 Stocks have just finished their worst quarter since the crash of 1987. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index gave up 15 percent of its value, a total of more than $1 trillion, while the Nasdaq composite index fell nearly 31 percent. 
 At least for now, the steepest part of the slide appears to be over. Stocks recovered last week, and many professional investors say that if the United States can avoid a deep recession over the next year, they are reasonably valued, perhaps even cheap. But that is a very big if, and it may well depend on smart action from lawmakers, they say. 
Jeffrey Applegate, chief investment strategist at Lehman Brothers, said yesterday that the markets needed Washington to move quickly, both to ease interest rates and to stimulate the economy with tax cuts and additional spending. "We're talking about not just monetary response, we're talking about fiscal response, and we're talking about military response," Mr. Applegate said. 
The Federal Reserve Open Market Committee, for its part, will meet on Tuesday, and most analysts are counting on another half-percentage point cut in short-term interest rates. The Federal Reserve also cut rates by half a percentage point on Sept. 17, the day the markets reopened after the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
But for much of the 1990's, Wall Street paid only passing attention to other broad federal actions. To many in Silicon Valley and on Wall Street, the dramas of the government shutdown of 1995 and President Bill Clinton's impeachment proved only that the federal government had become little more than a sideshow. Even before Mr. Clinton was acquitted in February 1999, the Nasdaq had begun its run to 5,000.
Last year, investors hardly seemed to care about whether Al Gore or George Bush would succeed Mr. Clinton as President. The conventional wisdom held that the need to keep bond traders happy and interest rates low would prevent either man from frittering away too much of the government's budget surplus with new spending or tax cuts.
Despite the tax cuts pushed through by Mr. Bush this spring, before Sept. 11, the federal government remained on course to run very large surpluses for the next decade (although for the next couple of years, the surpluses would have come largely from Social Security taxes).
Even as growth slowed and the stock market skidded this year, most investors thought the economy would eventually get back on track no matter what the government did or did not do to help it. Before Sept. 11, the economy and the market seemed fragile, but hardly broken. Corporate profits were plunging, and more and more economists worried that companies might try to prop up earnings by cutting jobs, hurting consumer spending.
But Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, had already cut short-term interest rates seven times since the beginning of 2001. Those cuts, combined with falling energy prices, seemed to be helping somewhat, and most economists figured that by early to mid-2002, the economy would be growing solidly again.
Then came the hijackings.
Now, for the first time in at least a decade, the financial markets are looking south for direction. The attacks damaged consumer and business confidence, and many economists think that only the president and Congress, in league with the Federal Reserve, can stop the United States from falling into a potentially deep recession.
Lawmakers from both parties appear ready to consider new government spending or tax cuts, beyond the cuts and rebates they passed earlier this year.
Even Mr. Greenspan, who in the immediate aftermath of the attacks urged Congress to act cautiously before authorizing new spending, said last week that any new stimulus package needed to be as much as $100 billion, including $40 billion in emergency aid already provided, in order to have a meaningful economic impact. 
Investors are waiting to see how quickly Congress and the White House will reach agreement on the details of a stimulus package and on its size. Those details are crucial, because a poorly designed or excessive stimulus package could send long-term interest rates higher, undoing the positive economic effects of new spending or tax cuts.
So lawmakers will have to work wisely, and quickly, investment strategists say, to give the economy and the financial markets a jolt. 
"It's absolutely critical that we get help from the government at this point, if for no other reason than to get a certain degree of confidence, both for consumers and to business people," said Stephen Slifer, chief U.S. economist for Lehman Brothers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX LAW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); INTEREST RATES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); BOND MARKETS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); BUDGETS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (95%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



27 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Taking On the Taliban

AID FOR AFGHANS -- President Bush has approved a covert effort to bolster the fighting ability of Afghan groups opposing the Taliban, administration officials said. Separately, Mr. Bush has authorized $100 million in fresh humanitarian aid to Afghan refugees. A1

MEETING WITH EXILED KING -- The 86-year-old exiled king of Afghanistan, who has spent decades in near-total isolation, met with anti-Taliban military commanders of the Northern Alliance and an American congressional delegation at his home near Rome, where the Americans promised to help him unite his countrymen against the radical Islamic Taliban government. B2

Calls for Action

CONGRESS URGED TO ACT -- Attorney General John Ashcroft implored lawmakers to approve the Bush administration's antiterrorism package by next week, warning: "Talk will not prevent terrorism. We need to have action by the Congress." A1

FREEZING TERRORIST ASSETS -- Bush administration officials are preparing to freeze the assets of about two dozen more charities and other organizations that are suspected of providing money and support to Osama bin Laden's terrorist operations, government officials said. A1

BIOLOGICAL WEAPON WARNING -- Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld warned that he expected the enemies of the United States would eventually help terrorist groups obtain chemical, biological and possibly even nuclear weapons technology. B5

Making Adjustments

COMPENSATION CONFUSION -- The fund created by Congress that could pay the families of victims in the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks more than $1 million each has begun to generate anger and confusion about its fairness and effectiveness. A1

WARY RETURN TO FLYING -- Americans are returning to the air with a mix of wariness and resignation, patriotic resolve and personal doubts. B8

HOPE FOR AIRPORT REOPENING -- Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said that he hoped Ronald Reagan National Airport could reopen soon, because keeping it closed would be a victory for terrorists. B8

Nightmares and Memorials--

A STUBBORN REMINDER -- The enduring smell that emanates from the tangled wreckage of the World Trade Center is more localized now, but still there, a stubborn reminder of what happened. A1

SHARING THE TEARS -- Carol O'Neill, like so many others, has become a full-time mourner, a person who, unable to make things better, must concentrate on not making things worse. Each day she goes to funeral services for the 67 employees that the close-knit investment banking firm Sandler O'Neill lost from its work force of only 180. B1

The Plotters Pursued

A PEOPLE DIVIDED -- Pakistan's upper classes, despite a divide between them and swelling numbers of Islamic militants, are not afraid -- at least not yet -- that an attack by the United States on neighboring Afghanistan will lead to such anger and violence that the society will suddenly crumble and be replaced overnight by a Taliban-like leadership. B1

GERMAN SURVEILLANCE -- Shocked and embarrassed by its use as a haven for Islamic terrorists, Germany has moved quickly to increase its surveillance of suspected groups. B1

TERRORIST PLOT SUSPECTED -- Germany said three people had been arrested on suspicion of planning violent acts as members of an Islamic fundamentalist terror network. B4

BIN LADEN PROOF CITED -- Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain said that he had seen "incontrovertible evidence" linking Osama bin Laden to the attacks on the United States on Sept. 11. Mr. Blair was the first European leader to say publicly that he had seen proof of Mr. bin Laden's complicity. B4

The Technology

SHORTAGE OF SPY GEAR -- The military is concerned about a shortage of surveillance equipment as the pursuit of Osama bin Laden is heating up, officials said. B1

PROVING GROUND FOR WEAPONS -- The military action being contemplated by the Bush administration could quickly become a proving ground for weapons and support systems developed since the Persian Gulf war a decade ago. How they fare could affect billions of dollars in military spending in the coming years. B6

COUNTERTERRORISM AIDE -- President Bush has chosen a retired Army general, Wayne A. Downing, to become his chief aide for counterterrorism, completing the selection of the new top homeland security team. B6

Hot Pursuit, and Two Allies

BIN LADEN'S WHEREABOUTS -- Osama bin Laden is still in Afghanistan "under the control" of the Taliban government at a hideout known only to "the people responsible for his safety," Afghanistan's ambassador to Pakistan said. B3

IRAN OPPOSES MILITARY STRIKE -- Iran believes that the terrorists behind the Sept. 11 attacks must be brought to justice and the Taliban government in Afghanistan replaced, Iran's deputy foreign minister said. But he also said Iran opposed a military strike, and he warned the United States against waging a new cold war against nations that do not join its coalition against terrorism. B3

CANADA'S MIXED MESSAGE -- Many ordinary Canadians are saying what Washington would like to hear: Give the Americans what they need to make North America safer, even if that means a loss of Canadian sovereignty and tougher immigration. It is not the message coming from Prime Minister Jean Chretien, however. B3

The Mood of America

FEARS FOR HOMELAND -- Estimates suggest that about 200,000 Pakistanis live in the United States, most clustered in immigrant centers in California and New York, but many scattered in isolated knots in the nation's rural landscape. Some wonder what will become of their homeland as their adopted country goes to war against its neighbor, Afghanistan, or whether anti-Muslim sentiment will hurt their families. B7

PROTEST IN WASHINGTON -- Several thousand protesters demonstrated against any military offensive in response to the Sept. 11 attacks. B7

LOST IN THE TRANSLATION -- As the Bush administration promotes legislation that would expand its power to place wiretaps on suspected terrorists, it faces a troubling obstacle: few of its intelligence agents are fluent in Arabic, the native language of Osama bin Laden. Even fewer agents understand Farsi or Pashto, which are the most common languages in Afghanistan. B7

The Mood of New York

HARD TIMES FOR SMALL BUSINESS -- Small New York companies like Carroll Musical Instrument Rentals represent a big chunk of the city's economy, providing work for about one-fourth of the labor force. But many of them -- bakeries, printers, garment factories and limousine services -- are feeling the pinch. "The ripple effects are enormous," said Jonathan Bowles of the Center for an Urban Future, a research group based in New York. B9

THINKING ABOUT MOVING OUT -- Interviews with Manhattan residents and with real estate brokers in the suburbs suggest that anxiety over terrorist attacks has caused some people to reconsider city life. B9

CARNEGIE HALL TRIBUTE -- More than 2,000 people attended a free concert honoring the victims of the terrorist attacks. B9

NEEDIEST CASES B10

Portraits of Grief B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); REFUGEES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); RELIGION (70%); LABOR FORCE (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%); INVESTMENT BANKING (64%); AIRPORTS (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



28 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 1, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1307 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE REBELS; 
Bush Approves Covert Aid for Taliban Foes

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON and DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 30 

 BODY:
President Bush has approved a secret effort to strengthen a diverse array of groups opposing the Taliban rulers of Afghanistan, administration officials said today. 
 Separately, Mr. Bush has authorized $100 million in new relief aid to Afghan refugees, as part of an effort to quell resentment in Pakistan as thousands of refugees pour over the border each day. 
 Administration officials are also actively considering a plan to air-drop food into Afghanistan to forestall starvation as winter approaches. But military planners are hesitating because they have not yet figured out how to ensure that the food does not fall into the Taliban's hands. 
The administration's program of covert support for anti-Taliban groups has emerged as a key element of its plan to oust a regime that Washington has accused of sheltering Osama bin Laden and his network.
The aid is not only intended to help the Northern Alliance, the rebel group that operates from bases in northern Afghanistan. It is also aimed at stirring up resistance to the Taliban among Pashtun tribal groups in the south. 
"The purpose is to enhance their ability to move against the Taliban," a senior official said. "It is not limited to political support." 
Administration officials indicated that the assistance included financing, but they declined to explain how much money would be spent or to provide details of the effort. Funds could supply a lifeblood to the anti-Taliban groups and enable them to buy weapons, to recruit new fighters, to bribe Taliban commanders to switch sides, or to undertake other efforts to weaken the regime. 
The United States is eager to obtain these results but has shrouded the effort in secrecy to avoid giving the impression that Washington alone is determining the future of Afghanistan.
Previously American officials have ly suggested that if new fighting breaks out, the rebels could provide intelligence data and serve as proxy fighters in an effort led by the United States to track Mr. bin Laden and target the Taliban.
Encouraging defections in the ranks of the Taliban is also a prime goal. In the 19 days since the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, one administration official disclosed today, the United States has been in contact with "people who are loosely affiliated with the Taliban and have separated from them" or are likely to switch sides if they believe that the Taliban's days are numbered.
An administration official said "appropriate legal authority exists" for a full range of activities in Afghanistan, but he declined to say whether Mr. Bush had signed a presidential decision directive, a secret document that would specifically authorize covert activity. 
Mr. Bush's decisions came as anti-Taliban Afghans continued their effort to form a broad coalition centered around the former king, Mohammad Zahir Shah. The king, 86, has been meeting in Rome with representatives of the Northern Alliance and commanders from the south of Afghanistan. 
Mostapha Zahir, the king's grandson, said in a telephone interview today that negotiations to form a common front were continuing and that the king, the Northern Alliance and southern commanders planned to issue a declaration on Monday. 
Those involved include Abdul Haq, a former mujahedeen commander who fought against Soviet troops in of Afghanistan and who recently returned to the region, as well as a half dozen other commanders. The king also plans to convene a "loya jirga," an assembly of Afghan leaders. 
The Northern Alliance has been fighting the Taliban for years. It controls only a small amount of territory, and its military leader was recently killed in a suicide bomb attack that American intelligence believes was instigated by Mr. bin Laden. The alliance is dominated by ethic Tajiks and Uzbeks and therefore is not acceptable to many Afghans. 
The dominant group in Afghanistan is the Pashtun, and the Bush administration has been careful to support that group as well. The former king is a Pashtun, and the Taliban leaders are also Pashtun. 
"There's no question but that there are any number of people in Afghanistan -- tribes in the south, the Northern Alliance in the north -- that oppose the Taliban," Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," alluding to the decision to support the rebel factions. "And clearly, we need to recognize the value they bring to this anti-terrorist, anti-Taliban effort and, where appropriate, find ways to assist them." 
Mr. Bush's decisions came last week as his National Security Council drafted a "guidance," or description, of its political goals in Afghanistan. The statement laid the basis for an effort to oust the Taliban. It charged that the Taliban were allied with terrorists, repressed the Afghan population, interfered with the delivery of aid and were not legitimate rulers of the nation.
Even though the Bush administration has been quietly encouraging the effort to form a broad anti-Taliban coalition around the former king, the statement asserts that Washington was not taking sides about who should lead the fractious nation. 
"The Taliban do not represent the Afghan people, who never elected or chose the Taliban faction," the guidance said. "We do not want to choose who rules Afghanistan, but we will assist those who seek a peaceful, economically developing Afghanistan, free of terrorism. The international community must devote itself to stabilizing Afghanistan."
Elaborating on the guidance, a senior official said: "We do not want to appear to be taking sides or favoring one ethnic group or one party, or one group of tribes. We will judge people by whether they support the objective."
In Afghanistan, the Taliban reacted defiantly to indications that the United States was trying to overthrow their leadership and replace it with a rebel coalition overseen by the former king. "Don't you know the nature of Afghans, that they will fight against your corrupt administration?" Mullah Muhammed Omar, the Taliban leader, told the king in a radio broadcast. "How dare you think you can return to Afghanistan backed by the United States. How are you going to rule the country? How can you think of such things?"
Anti-Taliban groups, for their part, said they expected that the United States would strike soon and urged it not to stop until it had rid Afghanistan of terrorism and the Taliban.
"In my opinion, the reaction by the international alliance will be soon," Abdullah Abdullah, the foreign minister for the Northern Alliance, said at a news conference in Tajikistan, speaking in English. "We have offered our willingness to cooperate." 
Military action is not the only way to counter the Taliban. By giving aid, Washington wants to show that its efforts are not directed against the Afghan people. And it also wants to reassure Pakistan that it is not insensitive to the refugee burden.
In the earliest planning for the response against Mr. bin Laden, the White House was concerned that the Taliban would steal the food shipped in, and keep it from the nearly 12 million Afghans affected by famine. 
But European allies and Arab nations warned Washington that the deaths of Afghan civilians, whether by bombs or starvation, would weaken popular support for the anti-terror effort. 
In the last week, two of the biggest international relief agencies won permission for the first time from the Iranian government to ship food over the Iranian border into Afghanistan. The United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and the International Committee of the Red Cross receive their biggest financial support from the United States. 
Similarly, last week the United States Agency for International Development won White House backing to urge top international agencies to send as much food as possible to important positions in Afghanistan.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Anti-Taliban fighters, due for United States help, on tower of the Baghram air base, 36 miles north of Kabul. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); Heavy artillery, repaired after fighting, ready for warfare in a camp of the anti-Taliban opposition near Ruha in northern Afghanistan this weekend. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALIBAN (92%); APPROVALS (90%); FAMINE (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); TERRORISM (88%); POLITICS (79%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); REFUGEES (77%); STARVATION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); MISSING PERSONS (61%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); FAMINE; AFGHANISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FAMINE; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHERN ALLIANCE (ANTI-TALIBAN FORCE); TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BIN LADEN, OSAMA; GORDON, MICHAEL R; SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (94%) NEW YORK CITY; PAKISTAN; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001 



29 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: OBSERVATORY 

BYLINE:  By HENRY FOUNTAIN 

 BODY:
This Old, Old House
 The homeowner who wants to do some work on the house has a lot of choices of where to get materials -- there's a lumberyard here, a hardware store there, and, of course, a Home Depot everywhere. 
 A thousand years ago, the Anasazi people in Chaco Canyon in northwestern New Mexico had far fewer options. To build their great houses -- masonry pueblos with hundreds of rooms -- they needed millions of pounds of stone and hundreds of thousands of timbers for the beams and lintels.
The stone was no problem, being easily obtained from the surrounding sandstone cliffs. But nearby conifer forests were quickly used up, forcing the Anasazi to harvest trees from mountains that were 45 to 60 miles away and carry the timbers -- some more than 15 feet long and weighing over 600 pounds -- back to the canyon. 
Now, scientists from the University of Arizona and the United States Geological Survey have determined precisely which mountains all those timbers came from. They analyzed the ratio of two isotopes of strontium in the logs, making use of the fact that trees incorporate the element from dust, water and bedrock as they grow, and the ratio differs depending upon the geological makeup of an area.
By comparing the isotope ratios to those from modern trees, the scientists discovered that the timbers were harvested from the Chuska and San Mateo Mountains, but not from the San Pedro Mountains, which are equally distant. They also found that timbers from the Chuska and San Mateo ranges were incorporated into the same houses.
Writing in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, the researchers say their findings suggest that the Anasazis' procuring of trees wasn't just a simple case of using up one resource and moving on to the next. Social and economic ties with other communities probably influenced where they got the timbers, and the Anasazi themselves had to have great organizational abilities to produce a labor force capable of getting them.

Following the Water
Droughts have spawned some of history's great human migrations. But drought can have an effect on a micro level, too. Witness what researchers have discovered about the activity of cyanobacteria in the desert.
Cyanobacteria (sometimes called, misleadingly, blue-green algae) are photosynthesizing organisms, usually unicellular, that often grow in long, threadlike colonies. In the desert, cyanobacteria, with fungi and lichens, often make up the organic crust that develops on rocks and soil.
Studying soils from badlands in Spain, researchers from Arizona State University and Bordeaux University in France have discovered that some cyanobacteria migrate within the soil as the moisture level changes. Cyanobacteria just beneath the surface appeared on the surface within minutes after the soil was wetted, and disappeared as the soil dried out.
Adding compounds that inhibited energy use by the cyanobacteria stopped the process completely, indicating the organisms were not just hitching rides on the water, via surface tension, as it moved. The researchers, writing in Nature, say the ability of cyanobacteria to follow water may be crucial to their survival in harsh conditions.

That Travelin' Manatee
The Florida manatee that made a name for itself six years ago by traveling all the way to Rhode Island is at it again. It has been sighted near Norfolk, Va.
Manatees normally migrate northward to the Carolinas, but they rarely go farther north. In 1994, this manatee, a male, traveled to the Chesapeake Bay (earning the nickname Chessie) and the following year he was spotted off Point Judith, R.I.
Wildlife officials in Virginia recognized Chessie by his distinctive scars. They expect that once he decides to head home, he will do so under his own power, as in previous years.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Nurit Karlin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (90%); SEAWEED & ALGAE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (88%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (88%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); DROUGHT (87%); HOME CENTERS (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (73%); MARINE MAMMALS (73%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (69%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); BACTERIA (64%); ARCHAEOLOGY (61%) ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; INDIANS, AMERICAN; RESEARCH; ANASAZI INDIANS; CYANOBACTERIA; BACTERIA; MANATEES; FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA (83%) UNIVERSITY OF ARIZONA; UNITED STATES GEOLOGICAL SURVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (93%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (67%); SPAIN (65%) CHACO CANYON (NEW MEXICO); NORFOLK (VA)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



30 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Roadblocks on the Path to Stability

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
"Some Voices," a tough social drama from 1994, was the response of a young British playwright, Joe Penhall, to newly enacted laws (in Britain) that released large numbers of the institutionalized mentally ill back into the general population. 
 In the play a young schizophrenic named Ray, sent out into the world only with a bottle of pills he is loath to take, leaves the asylum and is taken in by his brother, Pete, a diligent and well-meaning restaurant owner who is nonetheless emotionally unequipped to cope with Ray's instability. 
 The play, being presented through Friday at the Greenwich Street Theater, is a little overwrought, but it is a sensitive and entirely unsentimental work in which every character suffers more than he or she deserves. Not only is Ray's eager lurch toward a normal life doomed by his inner vertigo, but Pete's hard-earned stability is ominously threatened as well. 
Beyond these two, Laura, the young, pregnant Irishwoman Ray falls for and whom he tries to rescue from an abusive boyfriend, ends up being sucked into violence herself; the boyfriend, Dave, though deserving of a harsh comeuppance, meets an especially gruesome fate. Finally, Ives, an asylum inmate who is older and sicker than Ray and who either is released or escapes and goes unlooked for, becomes the most hapless victim of a public policy the playwright clearly deplores as expedient and cruel.
The play may be purposeful, but it isn't polemical. The characters are too credibly and carefully drawn for that, and the actors (all New York based, but British or Irish born) are individually intelligent and thorough in their performances. The cast is the best thing about the show. 
As Ray, Victor Villar-Hauser has a haunting grin and a bounding, physical manner that conveys the kind of obstinate misapprehension of reality that those who want to help the mentally ill find so deeply frustrating. As Pete, a sturdily built actor, Mike Finesilver, carries the burden of an unhappily single working man with weary determination. Laoisa Sexton is a wounded and sexy Laura; David Costelloe is a fierce and suitably stupid Dave; and in a small tour de force Patrick Tull, a graying, decrepit Santa of a man, is Ives, a chilling wise fool, close to terrifying in his crazed eloquence.
"Some Voices" first appeared in New York Off Broadway two years ago; this new version is produced by Ludovica Villar-Hauser ("The Countess"), Victor's sister, and directed by Kevin Kittle. It is a no-frills affair, which is what you might expect in a tiny (74 seats) out-of-the-way (west of SoHo) house. But in this case the evidently lowest of budgets hasn't been used to serve the play adequately.
Overall the show has an uneven pace, a halting quality that makes it feel longer than it ought to, which is partly the fault of the script. It was Mr. Penhall's first play (his latest, "blue/orange," is a current London hit and also concerns the treatment of the mentally ill), and though it isn't exactly long-winded, it's far from economical. Unfortunately the production doesn't do much to solve this. 
For one thing the sets, made of simple modules on wheels that are moved around and recombined between scenes, are neither evocatively nor attractively designed, and why they're painted a glowing lime green is an unhappy mystery. 
With nine scenes in each of the two acts, the interruptions are frequent, and Mr. Kittle hasn't figured out a better way of smoothing them over than playing recorded British rock music of a sardonic and angry ilk.

SOME VOICES

By Joe Penhall; directed by Kevin Kittle; sets and costumes by Valerie Green; lighting by Douglas Filomena; sound by Susan Williams; company manager, Ralph Carhart; production stage manager, Mel Besaw; co-producer, Benham Latimer. Presented by the Villar-Hauser Theater Development Fund Inc., under the direction of Ludovica Villar-Hauser. At the Greenwich Street Theater, 547 Greenwich Street, West Village.

WITH: Victor Villar-Hauser (Ray), Patrick Tull (Ives), Mike Finesilver (Pete), David Costelloe (Dave) and Laoisa Sexton (Laura).

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a theater review yesterday about a revival of "Some Voices," a 1994 play written in response to Britain's release of many institutionalized mentally ill people, misstated the show's closing day at the Greenwich Street Theater. It runs through Sunday, not Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Laoisa Sexton and Victor Villar-Hauser in "Some Voices." (Rainer Fehringer/"Some Voices") 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRAMA LITERATURE (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); THEATER REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (72%) THEATER; REVIEWS 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; PENHALL, JOE; KITTLE, KEVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED KINGDOM (92%); UNITED STATES (68%)

TITLE: SOME VOICES (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



31 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1500 words

HEADLINE: Rational and Irrational Fears Combine in Terrorism's Wake 

BYLINE:  By ERICA GOODE 

 BODY:
The familiar became strange, the ordinary perilous.
On Sept. 11, Americans entered a new and frightening geography, where the continents of safety and danger seemed forever shifted.
 Is it safe to fly? Will terrorists wage germ warfare? Where is the line between reasonable precaution and panic? 
 Jittery, uncertain and assuming the worst, many people have answered these questions by forswearing air travel, purchasing gas masks and radiation detectors, placing frantic calls to pediatricians demanding vaccinations against exotic diseases or rushing out to fill prescriptions for Cipro, an antibiotic most experts consider an unnecessary defense against anthrax. 
Psychologists who study how people perceive potential hazards say such responses are not surprising, given the intense emotions inspired by the terrorist attacks. 
"People are particularly vulnerable to this sort of thing when they're in a state of high anxiety, fear for their own well-being and have a great deal of uncertainty about the future," said Dr. Daniel Gilbert, a professor of psychology at Harvard.
"We don't like that feeling," Dr. Gilbert said. "We want to do something about it. And, at the moment, there isn't anything particular we can do, so we buy a gas mask and put an American decal on our car and take trains instead of airplanes."
But, he added, "I'll be very surprised if five years from now even one life was saved by these efforts."
Still, many psychologists said avoiding flying might be perfectly reasonable if someone is going to spend the entire flight in white-knuckled terror. And though experts say gas masks will offer dubious protection in a chemical attack, if buying them helps calm people down, it can do no harm.
"The feelings may be irrational, but once you have the feelings, the behavior is perfectly rational," said Dr. George Lowenstein, a professor of economics and psychology at Carnegie Mellon University. "It doesn't make sense to take a risk just because it's rational if it's going to make you miserable. The rational thing is to do what makes you comfortable."
The public's fears may be heightened, he and other experts said, by the sense that the government failed to predict or prevent the Sept. 11 attacks, making people less trusting of the reassurances offered by the authorities, who have said that biological attacks are unlikely and, with vastly heightened security, air travel is safe. 
Checkpoints on highways, closed parking structures at airports, flyovers by military aircraft and other security measures, they added, while reassuring many people, may for others increase anxiety by providing a constant reminder of danger.
In fact, the threats now uppermost in many people's minds, Dr. Lowenstein and other psychologists said, are examples of the kinds of risks that people find most frightening.
"All the buttons are being pushed here," said Dr. Paul Slovic, a professor of psychology at the University of Oregon and the author of "The Perception of Risk." Threats posed by terrorism, he said, "are horrific to contemplate, seem relatively uncontrollable and are catastrophic." 
He and other researchers have found that risks that evoke vivid images, that are seen as involuntary, that are unfamiliar or that kill many people at once are often perceived as more threatening than risks that are voluntary, familiar and less extreme in their effects. For example, in studies, people rank threats like plane crashes and nuclear accidents higher than dangers like smoking or car accidents, which actually cause many more deaths each year. 
This fact is a source of endless frustration to some scientists, who cannot understand why people panic over almost undetectable quantities of pesticides on vegetables but happily devour charcoal-broiled hamburgers and steaks, which contain known carcinogens formed in grilling. And, when asked to rank the relative dangers of a variety of potential hazards, scientific experts routinely give lower ratings to things like nuclear power and pesticides than do laypeople, researchers have found. 
"Everything in some sense is dangerous, in some concentration and some place, and usually not in others," said Dr. James Collman, a chemistry professor at Stanford and the author of "Naturally Dangerous: Surprising Facts About Food, Health and the Environment."
He said his daughter called him after the terrorist attacks to ask if she should buy a gas mask.
"I told her not to panic," he said. "I thought it was sort of statistically a silly thing to do, and were there ever any toxic gases out there, whatever mask she had might or might not be effective anyway."
Yet psychologists say the average person's responses make sense if one realizes that human beings are not the cool, rational evaluators that economists and other social scientists once assumed them to be.
Rather, the human brain reacts to danger through the activation of two systems, one an instant, emotional response, the other a higher level, more deliberate reaction.
The emotional response to risk, Dr. Lowenstein said, is deeply rooted in evolution and shared with most other animals. But rationality -- including the ability to base decisions about risk on statistical likelihood -- is unique to humans.
Yet the two responses, he said, often come into conflict, "just as the experts clash with the laypeople."
"People often even within themselves don't believe that a risk is objectively that great, and yet they have feelings that contradict their cognitive evaluations," Dr. Lowenstein said. 
For example, he said, "The objective risk of driving for four or five hours at high speeds still has got to be way higher than the risk of flying." 
Yet Dr. Lowenstein added that a group of his colleagues, all academic experts on risk assessment, chose to drive rather than fly to a conference after the terrorist attacks.
"If you ask them which is objectively more dangerous, they would probably say that driving is," Dr. Lowenstein said. And though his colleagues cited potential airport delays, he said he suspected fear might also have played into their decision.
President Bush and other policy makers in Washington, Dr. Lowenstein said, must contend with a similar struggle between reason and emotion in shaping their response to the attacks.
"A lot of what's going on is this battle where the emotions are pushing us to respond in a way that would give us quick release but would have all sorts of long-term consequences," Dr. Lowenstein said.
In fact, studies show that once awakened, fear and other emotions heighten people's reactions to other potential hazards. In one study, for example, students shown sad films perceived a variety of risks as more threatening than students who saw emotionally neutral films.
Fear can also spread from person to person, resulting in wild rumors and panic.
One example often cited by sociologists who study collective behavior is the so-called Seattle windshield pitting epidemic, which occurred in 1954, a time when cold war fears ran high and the United States was testing the hydrogen bomb.
That year, tiny holes in car windshields were noticed in Bellingham, Wash., north of Seattle. A week later, similar pitting was seen by residents of towns south of Bellingham. Soon, people in Seattle and all over the state were reporting mysterious damage to their windshields. Many speculated that fallout from the H-bomb tests was the cause. Others blamed cosmic rays from the sun. At the height of the panic, the mayor of Seattle even called President Dwight D. Eisenhower for help.
But eventually, a more mundane explanation revealed itself: In the usual course of events, people did not examine their windshields that closely. The holes, pits and dings turned out to be a result of normal wear and tear, which few had noticed until it was drawn to their attention.
The antidote to such fears, psychologists say, is straightforward information from trustworthy sources.
"Trustworthiness has two elements," said Dr. Baruch Fischhoff, a psychologist in Carnegie Mellon's department of social and decision sciences. "One is honesty and the other is competence."
Attempts by the authorities to use persuasion often fall flat, Dr. Fischhoff said, because "if people feel they have to peel away the agenda of the communicator in order to understand the content of the message, that's debilitating." 
"Give me the facts in a comprehensible way, and leave it to me to decide what's right for me," he said. 
Yet what psychologists can say with some certainty is that, if no further attacks occur in the near future, people's fears are likely to fade quickly -- even faster than the fearful themselves would predict.
Studies suggest, Dr. Gilbert said, that "people underestimate their resilience and adaptiveness."
"We have remarkable both psychological and physiological mechanisms to adapt to change," he said. "I guarantee you that in six months whatever New Yorkers are feeling will seem pretty normal to them, even if it is not exactly what they were feeling before."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 3, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article in Science Times yesterday about fear of potential hazards misspelled the surname of a psychologist who said that even if a fear was irrational it made sense to do what made one comfortable. He is Dr. George Loewenstein, not Lowenstein.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In the week after the hijackings and attacks, fears kept the Orlando airport and many others nearly empty, even after flights were resumed. (Reuters)(pg. F7) Chart: "What You Don't Know . ."Whether people fear something depends not only on how dangerous it actually is, but also on how much they know about it and how much control they believe they have over their exposure to it. Researchers use diagrams like this to chart perceptions of risk. VERTICAL AXISAt bottom, risks that subjects view as known and observable; at top, those whose effects are hardest to observe. Less risky, less frightening-- Marijuana-- Aspirin-- Sunbathing Most frightening-- Terrorism-- Nuclear weapons-- Nuclear power-- Nerve gas HORIZONTAL AXISAt left, things described as controllable. At right, things that seem beyond one's control. Least frightening-- Surfing-- Motorcycles-- Alcoholic beverages-- Hunting More risky, more frightening-- Smoking-- Heroin-- Crime-- Open-heart surgery Items are shown in no special order.(Source: "The Perception of Risk," by Paul Slovic)(pg. F7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); PSYCHOLOGY (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); BACTERIA (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); AIRPORTS (76%); ANTIBIOTICS (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); VACCINES (71%); RADIATION DETECTORS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (65%); AIRLINES (64%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS 

PERSON: GOODE, ERICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



32 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Front Row 

BYLINE:  By Guy Trebay

 BODY:
High-Flying Models Grounded
 Aside from pilots and media moguls, few people log more air miles than fashion models. Any notion of these beautiful minicorporations whiling away their hours on tropical beaches or in the makeup chair at photo studios, while not exactly misguided, hardly indicates the whole picture. "It's a plane-a-day business," said Frances Grill, the owner of Click Model Management. The reality is that without frequent flying, she said, "a girl can't have a full career." 
 It is particularly crucial for models to be in motion during the weeks that constitute the collections' seasons. Throughout these brief cycles, the established names draw huge salaries, working as many as seven catwalks a day in New York, London, Milan and Paris at fees that can approach $10,000 a show. For agencies, show season is a crucial time, both for product testing and the bottom line. For newcomers, it's the best way to begin a career. 
Now, all that has changed. "Girls are not wanting to fly right now," Ms. Grill said. "Those who are, are going with a lot of trepidation." 
Many big-name models, among them Maggie Rizer, Mini Anden, Erin O'Connor and Karolina Kurkova, had already headed to Europe before the World Trade Center attack, and some are based in Europe anyway. Consequently, the runways in Milan have not exactly been underpopulated. But those women who had not made the trip to Europe early, said Conor Kennedy, an agent at Elite, "just fled."
An informal survey of modeling agencies in New York suggests that scores of young models kept flying after Sept. 11, but not to the fashion capitals of the world. Most headed straight home. Jennie Knight, one of Click's promising prospects, was booked for a number of European catwalks and editorial features. Immediately after the attack, Ms. Knight returned to her family in Utah. Cristine Fontanari, a coltish Brazilian blonde, who had been optioned for the new Jil Sander advertising campaign, joined a phalanx of South American models who chose to wait things out in the relative tranquillity of another hemisphere. 
"It's difficult enough saying to a girl's parents, we'll be transplanting your daughter from her small town and flying her halfway around the world," Chris Gay, an agent at Next, said. "When something like this happens, it's better to go home and regroup." 
Since models in a sense are the fashion industry's mine canaries, the long-term effects on the industry of horrific circumstance and an enfeebled economy can be read in their fates. The biggest impact on the New York economy, Mr. Gay said, "is that a lot of American buyers didn't go to the shows." Instead, many collections will be flown to New York and shown in scaled-down private presentations that generate far fewer jobs. Obviously, rescheduled shows and smaller casts "mean less income for agencies," said Mr. Kennedy of Ford. "We're all aware that this economy is going to be a little rough." 

A Watch Cools Down
In the fictive delirium that is fashion hype, the consumer who wears a TechnoMarine watch goes rock climbing in remote locations but relishes the view of busy streets from a glamorous New York pied-a-terre; goes scuba diving and white-water rafting "in uncharted waters," but never passes up the opportunity to have a cocktail party by the pool at his Hamptons beach house; enjoys camping out and cooking food over an open fire, yet dines in "decadent" French restaurants. "You are impossible to categorize," goes the accompanying claim, yet it's obvious that the person being described is a dinosaur.
If there is anything that recent events rendered outmoded it is excess. And few luxury signifiers fit the bill more neatly than TechnoMarine. Introduced in 1997 by Franck Dubarry, a former ad man and Club Med director, the watches wedded gel band dive-watch features with diamond-encrusted dials. (Think Ivana Trump meets Swatch.) And the sticker price made the Rolex Submariner, perennial timekeeping toy of choice among Wall Street wizards, look like a steal. To say that TechnoMarine took off is understatement. First year sales of $700,000 rocketed to $23 million last year. Among fashionistas, few items were both hotter and cooler.
But suddenly, $16,000 diamond pave watches designed for ogling clown fish seem more than showy. Interpreting the new economy in its own way, perhaps, TechnoMarine has introduced a bargain line. TechnoSport ($250 to $350) is "lower priced," said a spokeswoman. "No diamonds, more urban," and more suitable "for this point in time."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Maggie Rizer, at the Blass spring show, left for Europe before Sept. 11. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); TALENT AGENTS (78%); BEACHES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JIL SANDER AG (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448120 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); NAICS448110 MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (58%); SIC5137 WOMEN'S, CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES (58%); SIC2331 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' BLOUSES & SHIRTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); BRAZIL (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



33 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 477 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGN; 
Green's First Shot for the Runoff

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
 Mark Green, the public advocate, released a 30-second ad called "Faces" yesterday, his first television commercial of the runoff campaign for the Democratic mayoral nomination. 

PRODUCER -- Trippi, McMahon & Squier

ON THE SCREEN -- Close-ups of sad and frightened-looking children, shot in black and white, fade in and out. When the announcer first mentions his name, Mr. Green is shown in color, addressing a classroom, in front of a teacher's desk and an American flag. Then he is shown meeting with adults, presumably parents. The phrases "Reduce Class Size," "Improve Safety and Security" and "Pay Teachers Better" appear on the screen. Mr. Green is shown high-fiving a boy in a park. In the next shot, in black-and-white, he is framed by a row of columns. The New York Times editorial endorsing him in the primary is shown, with the words "toughness," "courage" and "leadership" highlighted. A shot of Mr. Green talking to people on a stoop follows. Finally the camera shows two girls in a classroom, in color. One looks clear-eyed and confident, the other smiles.

THE SCRIPT -- The narrator, a woman, says: "We've seen fear in their faces, tears in their eyes. And now, they need us more than ever. Not just to rebuild our city's economy, but to improve our public schools. Mark Green's education plan will reduce class size, improve safety and security and pay teachers better. Mark Green, the only Democrat for mayor endorsed by The New York Times for his 'courage,' 'toughness' and 'leadership.' Mark Green, rebuilding our city, keeping them safe, improving their schools."

ACCURACY -- Mr. Green has repeatedly called for smaller classes, especially from kindergarten through third grade, which he says should be limited to 20 students. Improved school safety has not been one of his major campaign themes up to now, but he has proposed tougher laws against assaulting teachers and "zero tolerance" for juvenile crime. Mr. Green has called for reducing the gap between the salaries of teachers in New York City and the suburbs but has not said by how much. (His opponent, Fernando Ferrer, has called for raising teacher salaries by 30 percent.) The editorial endorsement in The Times said that Mr. Green had "always had political courage" and that he "scores high" on the qualities of leadership and toughness.

SCORECARD -- The ad manages to invoke the attack on the World Trade Center without depicting it or even mentioning it. "Rebuilding our city" is certainly a new tag line. By using the images of frightened and sad children, the ad gives Mr. Green a chance to highlight the two sides of his campaign: rebuilding the city in the aftermath of the attacks, but also concentrating on what he calls "home-front issues," like education. And it cannot hurt to use the words "safety" and "security," even in the context of an education plan.
 MICHAEL COOPER

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (89%); MAYORS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); JUVENILE CRIME (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



34 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: Defenses in Alaska 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Alaska Antimissile Site: Too Close for Russians' Comfort?" (news article, Sept. 26):
 Since Sept. 11, grass-roots organizations in Alaska have stepped up their opposition to the unproved and now outmoded multi-billion-dollar missile defense site in Alaska, even as Congress has muted its criticism and increased appropriations. 
 Alaskans and defense contractors must put aside short-term opportunism in the interest of national defense and the Russian alliance.
The billions requested for missile defense against rogue nations could be better spent to defend Alaska's oil fields and pipeline, to reduce the Russian nuclear stockpile and to buy up unemployed Soviet expertise now available to terrorists. 

STEPHEN CONN
Executive Director, Alaska Public
Interest Research Group
Anchorage, Sept. 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (88%); DEFENSE SPENDING (87%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (87%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (87%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); TERRORISM (72%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (70%) MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP 

PERSON: CONN, STEPHEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (73%) ALASKA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



35 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Review/Fashion; 
Business as Usual, but Not Quite, on the Runway in Milan

BYLINE:  By CATHY HORYN

DATELINE: MILAN, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
In almost any circumstance, fashion has trouble dealing with reality. How often do you see clothes in a magazine that would look ridiculous in real life? How many times have you read that a $600 handbag is "well priced"? Fashion editors have a genius for accommodating extremes, and most of the time the public is happy to play along in the deception.
 But since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, retail spending has stalled, the economy is weakening and the designers presenting their collections for next spring seemed to be suddenly stranded in the breech. They want to go forward -- "appropriately and positively!" as a video message at the Versus show on Saturday perkily announced -- but how to do that? And what can appropriate possibly mean to a world that last applied that word to the wearing of garden party hats after Labor Day? 
 For Donatella Versace it meant, simply, business as usual: girlie skirts and graffiti prints parading past giddy celebrities. On Tuesday, she's giving a dinner for the newlyweds Jennifer Lopez and Cris Judd at her Lake Como house. 
"There will be a reaction to what happened in New York, but I don't think designers will do things differently," said Sarah Lerfel of the Paris boutique Colette, outside the Prada show on Friday. "You never see politics in clothes." She nodded toward the crowd. "Fashion is sometimes on another planet," she said. "It's superficial. I look around, I see the same people, in black. Nothing has changed."
Yet financially, fashion executives are bracing for a storm. "Things are going to be very difficult," said Domenico De Sole, chief executive of Gucci. "Our sales are very strong in Europe, Asia is holding and New York is obviously hurting. My strategy is simple. We stay the course and watch expenses." Both he and Luigi Maramotti, president of Max Mara, said the economic fallout could last well into the new year.
"A lot will be decided in the next 12 months," Mr. Maramotti said. 
Companies like Gucci and Max Mara, with their own stores and no-frills management style, may be better fixed than others. And as Mr. Maramotti said after the Max Mara show, with its romantic peasant blouses, sashed dresses in men's-wear fabrics and crisp Sergeant Pepper jackets, "we make nice clothes for real people."
As Italy is the source for much of the fashion merchandise around the world -- more than the United States and France -- the economy added to the sober mood here. Though the Milanese are out shopping in droves, restaurants and hotels are less crowded, and the absence of American retailers has been conspicuous as well as criticized.
"I think they should have come," Mr. De Sole said. Giorgio Armani, who was in New York during the attacks, agreed. "They had a psychological reaction that was normal," he said, "but from a professional point of view, I'm here, they should be here." At a cost of about $12,000, he arranged for satellite links today with Tokyo and New York to transmit his show live to retailers. And Gucci and Prada plan to bring their spring collections to New York this month.
That no single collection has stood out has more to do with shifting fashion tastes than the ongoing crisis, though everybody seems absorbed in it. Tom Ford said before his Gucci show on Saturday that he had made some changes in his presentation, like lowering the runway, taking out many black outfits and switching to more romantic music. "I think excess and frivolity had already started to wear thin," he said. 
So out goes the louche and in comes the laid-back. Mr. Ford's best looks came early in the show: slouchy pants in ivory cotton canvas worn with shrugging T-shirts or loose manila suede jackets tied straitjacket-style in the front. While the models occasionally looked swallowed up by the clothes -- the paper-bagged pants and skirts, low-belted trench coats and silky pajama pants with heart-shaped cutouts -- the collection had a sweet tomboy mood redolent of the 1970's. Annie Hall if she had been liberated from Woody Allen.
Curiously, though, there must be something in the uneasy air that is spawning a certain beddy-byeness. One of Mr. Ford's more perversely cozy numbers was a union suit, with drooping crotch, and those slightly distressed and flaring suede toppers did suggest . . . mmm . . . a bed jacket. Miuccia Prada was of a similar mind the night before, showing piped cotton shirts based, she said afterward, on men's pajama tops.
Ms. Prada's collection was not exactly a snore, but neither was it a wake-up call to a new direction. One of her strengths is to propose seemingly banal styles, like a thin, sleeveless gray pullover or a prissy knee-length skirt, and treat them both casually and elegantly. The knit vest appeared over clinging ivory T-shirts and shells in softened lame or silvery damask patterns, some drizzled down the front with a crushed ruffle.
But with dress looks that hinted of Chanel, pj's that brought to mind Charvet, and lame that dipped into Charo country, Ms. Prada got herself into a thematic jam. Backstage, lighting a postshow Marlboro, she said she had spent 10 years developing the lame and searching for the right approach to it. Alas, this time her brainwork showed.
The trouble with Mr. Armani -- sometimes, just sometimes -- is that he takes himself too seriously for a guy who, by now, knows every trick in the book. He knows about taste, simplicity and how to cut a jacket to the bone. The best was a brown-checked number with razor-sharp shoulders and a slightly pinched waist that practically heehaws at the rest of the tailoring here.
But he needs to let go of some of his ideals. The world has been going progressively casual for the last decade, and while Mr. Armani led the revolution in softer clothes, the real trick now is to make even the elegant look casual. His version of low-slung pants has the waistband folded down, in two small flaps, below the navel -- a neither-here-nor-there gesture. A slight nautical theme ran through the day clothes, with familiar Chinese embellishments for night.
Stefano Gabbana and Domenico Dolce put on a good show that in its boy-friendliness suggested that they, too, were taking a pause. Boned black jackets came out over low trousers or flounced skirts. There were pants in eccentric swirls of suede, and loose chiffon tops in fresh shades of delphinium and rose. 
The Marni show today was a bolt out of the blue -- delphinium and azure, mixed with beach hues and beatnik satchels adorned with trinkets. Everything about the collection was cheerful and uncomplicated, from faded ticking-striped coats to flaring sundresses slung with tough leather belts.
Is Jil Sander's minimalism too elusive for its designer, Milan Vukmirovic? He showed a lighter hand this season, with jersey chemises and simple skirt and blouse combos, but he can't finesse the details that lift plain luxury from the J. Crew variety. 
In the notes to his show on Sunday, Gianfranco Ferre said he had let himself "succumb" to the mysteries of India, as if he were helpless to avoid sausage-tight pants, metallic fretwork tops and tutu leather. But Mr. Ferre fell off the reality wagon years ago and hasn't been able to get back up.
What remains to be seen is how all these clothes will be played in magazines and advertisements in a world suddenly facing a different reality. Will Gucci have to back off from its aggressive ads? "I don't know," Mr. De Sole said. "I don't know." Some of the current ads, notably Versace's, with their evocation of Stepford wives, were already behind the curve. As one editor said: "She's rich. We know it. So what's next?"
"We've already gone too far," said Franca Sozzani, the editor of Italian Vogue. "But what I don't want to give up is the dream. Because women don't buy the clothes. They buy what they think they will become in the clothes."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Cotton sundress with flounced skirt and leather belt from Marni's uncomplicated collection. (Associated Press); A navy A-line skirt with a stretch T-shirt under a ruffled lame top, from Prada.; Baggy low-slung trousers in cotton with a suede jacket from Gucci.; Giorgio Armani's chiffon T-shirt with a Chinese beaded motif over layered trousers.; Dolce & Gabbana's flounced cotton skirt with a vest and long undershirt.; Strapless dress in men's-wear fabric from Max Mara.; From Versus, a graffiti jacket and pants that match the graffiti on the runway. (Associated Press); (Reuters); (Associated Press); (Don Lecca for The New York Times); (Corina Lecca for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); US LABOR DAY (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JENNIFER LOPEZ (58%); GIORGIO ARMANI (58%); DONATELLA VERSACE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); EUROPE (79%); ITALY (74%); ASIA (68%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



36 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
An agency giant is expected to warn of lower profits, and analysts darken their outlook.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
FURTHER underlining the deteriorating condition of the advertising economy, one of the world's largest agency companies is expected to warn investors today that profits will not meet expectations, while several analysts further reduced their estimates for ad spending this year and next.
 "We're at the height of uncertainty," said one of those analysts, Lauren Rich Fine, who follows agencies and media companies for Merrill Lynch. "Companies are trying not to make decisions." 
 Ms. Fine now estimates that ad spending in 2001 will decline 3.1 percent from 2000, compared with her previous estimate, made 11 days before the terrorist attacks, that ad spending this year would decline 2.6 percent from last year. 
Ms. Fine is for the first time predicting a decline in 2002 from 2001, of 0.8 percent. Her previous estimate called for ad spending to grow next year by 1.7 percent.
"We're going into a recession, and people do cut back," Ms. Fine said. "Advertising goes down as the economy goes down."
Another analyst who reduced estimates for 2001 and 2002 is Michael J. Russell Jr. at Morgan Stanley.
"It's just a waiting game," Mr. Russell said. "We're looking for a full year of negative numbers, until the third quarter of 2002."
Mr. Russell's revised estimate for 2001 calls for a decline in ad spending of 9.1 percent from 2000, compared with his previous forecast for a 7.4 percent drop. For 2002, he now predicts a scant increase of 0.2 percent from 2001 rather than the rise of 3.4 percent he had previously forecast.
One reason the analysts reduced their estimates was the cutbacks in spending for television commercials and newspaper ads after the terrorist attacks, as the news media reduced or eliminated advertising to increase coverage.
According to CMR, a company that tracks ad spending, national broadcast and cable television networks and local TV stations lost $313.2 million in revenue from Sept. 11 through Sept. 15.
"Most people think it will take a little while until the spending comes back," said David Peeler, president and chief executive at CMR in New York, a division of Taylor Nelson Sofres. "We'll be closely looking over the next couple of weeks to see if there's an increase, but it's too soon to tell."
There were losses of ad revenue at 14 local and national newspapers, too, for Sept. 12 through Sept. 14, Mr. Peeler said, but those were generally less than the losses suffered by their TV counterparts.
Turning to the profit warning, it is expected to come from Havas Advertising in Paris, the world's fifth-largest agency company in billings, at $26.3 billion, and revenue, at $2.8 billion. The warning is to come as Havas reports its financial results for the first half of 2001.
The warning would come four days after another large agency company, the Cordiant Communications Group in London, issued a similar warning. Cordiant unexpectedly notified investors that revenue would decline 5 percent this year because the attacks worsened the outlook for the already weakening economy. Previously, Cordiant executives had forecast a revenue increase of 11 percent for 2001.
Jennifer Gery, a spokeswoman for Havas at Brainerd Communicators in New York, said yesterday that she was unable to obtain comment from executives at Havas about what they planned to announce because they were in a "quiet period" that prevents them from discussing the news before its release.
Mr. Russell at Morgan Stanley said he expected profit warnings from agency companies based in Europe because "Europe is in a later economic cycle" than the United States.
"We already knew in this market that this would be a difficult year," he added. "This year has now gotten more difficult for them."
Wherever agency companies are based, Mr. Russell said, "they are going to have a problem" if they have "a lot of exposure to technology, financial services and travel," that is, many clients in problematic categories.
"The stock market is looking for a 1950's agency, with exposure just to the basic goods," he added, staples like packaged foods, soft drinks and paper products.
Ms. Fine said that for all the downward revisions she had made recently in her forecasts, "I'm done -- I hope, I hope, I hope."
"People will have to go back to building brands," she added. "You can start to bake in some recovery in '03."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Lost Revenue"Advertising spending on television and in newspapers dropped sharply in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. CHANGE IN ADVERTISING (Sept. 11-15) Graphs track changes:ON BROADCAST NETWORKS*ON LOCAL TV STATIONS*ON CABLE NETWORKS*IN NEWSPAPERS+*Estimates. +Change from month earlier at 12 major metropolitan newspapers and two national newspapers; Sept. 15 figure unavailable.(Source: CMR) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); HIJACKING (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); CABLE TELEVISION (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%) ADVERTISING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; TELEVISION; FINANCES 

COMPANY: HAVAS SA (74%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ;HAVAS ADVERTISING 

TICKER: HAV (PAR) (74%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (74%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (74%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (74%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (74%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: ;ELLIOTT, STUART; RUSSELL, MICHAEL; FINE, LAUREN RICH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (58%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



37 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1678 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE TREASURY SECRETARY; 
Ad-Libbing His Way Into Trouble

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Shortly after the terrorist attacks, the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, summoned reporters to the Treasury Department's diplomatic reception room to describe how the strikes had hurt the economy and what the administration would do to limit the damage.
 Although Mr. O'Neill often freely ruminates about the economy, taxes, and just about everything else, this time he read a brief, prepared statement word for word, then turned to leave without answering questions. A Treasury official later explained that the White House had demanded a unified stance on the economy at a delicate moment. 
 Mr. O'Neill, who developed a reputation for speaking his mind and straying beyond the administration's line on numerous issues, has found himself playing a less central role in economic policy making than his recent predecessors. Not only has he had his leash shortened, but several other administration officials have also encroached on Treasury's turf. While the White House says that the Treasury secretary is still an integral part of the administration's economic brain trust, officials are also urging Mr. O'Neill to become more of a team player. "The time has come," one White House official said, "to get on and get along." 
That order could prove difficult for the voluble and occasionally irritable Mr. O'Neill. He set out to shatter traditions and overthrow established policies that he felt had lost touch with the reality he knew as the chief executive of Alcoa, the aluminum giant. In the process, he has tweaked fellow administration officials and senior Republicans as much as Democrats, and raised doubts among many critics whether he has the weight to manage the tottering economy.
Mr. O'Neill promised when nominated to the post 10 months ago that "his days as a maverick are over." They had actually just begun. He has questioned the Clinton-era mantra of supporting a "strong dollar," disputed the administration's line that long-term tax cuts could spur the economy out of its slowdown, and pooh-poohed bailouts for emerging markets -- though he did not always articulate an alternative.
Under pressure to instill confidence after the terrorist attacks, Mr. O'Neill, in the eyes of many critics, ad-libbed his way into trouble. Asked if the economy was headed for recession, he told a television interviewer, simply, "I don't think so." Most private analysts agree with the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, who last week called an American recession a "done deal."
A commentary in The Wall Street Journal last week accused Mr. O'Neill of squandering his credibility and called his prediction that the stock market could be approaching prior highs within 12 or 18 months a "burst of irrational exuberance."
Mr. O'Neill acknowledges that he has taken hits for focusing on things that are "below the threshold" of what many people consider the proper duties of the administration's economic chief, like improving worker safety at the Treasury Department and converting the ornate 19th-century offices into corporate-style open cubicles.
Even when he is right -- and supporters say the shibboleths he disdains are indeed often wrong or outdated -- he has a tendency to speak out before the administration is prepared to turn his words into policy. That habit has come under fire at a time when volatile markets and the shaky economy are seen as needing a steady hand, not an iconoclast.
"He was the chief executive of a major corporation, captain of the ship, and he still has that demeanor," said Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee. "He should be acting more like a chief financial officer."
Mr. O'Neill's freelancing sometimes pays off, Mr. Grassley added. The Treasury secretary conspicuously questioned whether the administration's original tax-cut plan gave enough short-term kick to the economy, and he pushed the idea of immediate tax rebates on a reluctant White House. He publicly entertained the idea of eliminating taxes on corporations before the president gave the go-ahead, but now has been joined by other administration officials in the push to reduce such taxes as part of any new stimulus package.
"We all thought he was crazy to be going on like that," Mr. Grassley said. "It looks pretty smart now."
While there are no signs of a rift between Mr. Bush and Mr. O'Neill, the president has, contrary to his last few predecessors, dispersed responsibility for economic policy broadly. After the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Bush gave Mr. O'Neill the high-profile duty of tracking down the financial assets of Osama bin Laden and his terrorist network.
But Josh Bolten, a deputy White House chief of staff, was tapped by Mr. Bush to head a new "domestic consequences group" to coordinate the administration's efforts to counter the economic effects of the terrorist strikes. Meanwhile, Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's top economic adviser in the White House, and Donald L. Evans, the commerce secretary, have pivotal roles planning tax cuts and coordinating the airline bailout, say Republicans who help the administration plot economic strategy.
Mr. O'Neill also does not appear to have had a decisive role in working out the terms of a stimulus package with Congress. The week following the attacks, lawmakers held a high-level, closed-door session to discuss the stimulus with Mr. Lindsey; Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman; and Robert E. Rubin, Treasury secretary under President Clinton. Mr. O'Neill was not invited to attend.
Treasury officials said Mr. O'Neill was tied up in a National Security Council meeting that day and that he has had many opportunities to consult with Congressional leaders about stimulus measures since then.
Though Mr. O'Neill had appeared regularly in public since the attack, some administration officials have privately questioned his effectiveness, say prominent Republicans who advise the administration on economic issues.
These critics say he sounded glib about the strength of the economy at a time when he should have worked to reassure rattled investors. The performance, they say, contrasted unfavorably with the administration's national security team. While White House officials dismiss talk of replacing him during a crisis environment, some people close to the administration said frustration with his performance was mounting.
"He's the only cabinet member who hasn't really stepped into the national dialogue in a persuasive way," one influential Republican said. "At the White House, disappointment is widespread."
Mr. O'Neill bemoans such sniping as the product of Washington's "layers of cynicism." The 65-year-old secretary is no political naif. He had an earlier stint in government when he served as a top budget official in the Ford administration. But he projects a Mr. Smith-goes-to-Washington sense of befuddlement, arguing that the city's calcified culture has no place for outsiders who challenge received wisdom.
"I've been disappointed that there doesn't seem to be a larger clientele, including in the media, for people who tell the truth," he said in an interview last week. "When I do something and it's off the beaten path, people say, 'Oh, my God, this is not the way we play the game.' "
The president, Mr. O'Neill said, is not among the cynics. Because the Treasury secretary has come under criticism, including from some conservative commentators, Mr. O'Neill says he has made a point of checking in with his boss. The president has reiterated that he likes advisers with independent ideas, not "pussycats who spout the party line," Mr. O'Neill said.
"If I thought I was reducing the president's effectiveness I would leave tomorrow," he said.
Supporters in Congress and the administration argue that his no-nonsense approach is valuable. Like Mr. Greenspan, they say, he prefers facts to theory. When there are not enough facts, he goes out of his way to find them.
During the post-attack crisis, for example, he had a private breakfast in New York with the chief executives of American Express, Bethlehem Steel and several other members of the Business Roundtable, a lobbying group. Mr. O'Neill asked them to come armed with data. He scribbled copious notes on the fine points, like week-by-week changes in credit card use, to develop a nuanced picture of the economy.
Like the president, Mr. O'Neill cultivates an image as a Washington outsider. But the Treasury secretary is arguably more of a purist. He does not have a dedicated speech writer, for example, in contrast to his most recent predecessor, Lawrence H. Summers, who had two.
Seemingly oblivious to how his words are perceived, Mr. O'Neill sometimes dives into analysis of subtle policy details on hot topics of the moment. He did that with the president's No. 1 priority early in his term, tax cutting, casting doubt on Mr. Bush's own contention that reducing income tax rates would revive the slowing economy.
Though he has an array of flat-screen market monitors behind his desk, Mr. O'Neill has at times ignored the power his words have to send traders scurrying to their terminals.
He has had difficulty disguising his disdain for the "strong dollar" policy of the Clinton years, preferring to let the market dictate currency values. But when on a visit to Europe he casually hinted that he had doubts about the old talk, the value of the dollar on global currency markets sank sharply. That forced a retraction of his comment and an angry retort that he would "rent Yankee Stadium" if he intended to effect any change in dollar policy.
While many economists agree with his desire to stop bailing out developing countries, some have scolded him for seeking to impose a new way of doing things overnight.
Though he has come under some pressure lately, Mr. O'Neill shows few signs of becoming more like the political pussycat he disdains.
When a friend asked him recently whether his habit of ruminating provocatively would get him in trouble, Mr. O'Neill was characteristically blunt.
"The president hasn't told me to shut up yet," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul H. O'Neill, the secretary of the Treasury, during an interview last week in his Washington office. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (93%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (89%); TERRORISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); TAX LAW (71%); US DOLLAR (66%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (64%); EXECUTIVES (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (54%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (54%); AA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (54%)

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



38 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
The dollar proves to be surprisingly resilient in the wake of the attacks.

BYLINE:  By Jonathan Fuerbringer 

 BODY:
THE dollar, a symbol of America's financial strength, has been surprisingly resilient in the wake of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
 Although the dollar was weakening before the attack -- and faces more downward pressure in the months ahead -- it has been remarkably stable as investors around the world have considered the new political and military uncertainties and the threat of a global economic slowdown. 
 Measured on a trade-weighted basis, the dollar is virtually unchanged since the attacks. While it has fallen 2.1 percent against the euro, the dollar has been rising against the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the Australian dollar and emerging-market currencies, including the Brazilian real.
"I think its pretty impressive the way the dollar has held up so far," said Neil M. Soss, chief United States economist at Credit Suisse First Boston. 
The dollar had risen almost 30 percent against the world's major currencies in the last six years and was the strongest it had been since early 1986 before beginning to slide this summer. Even with the 16 percent drop against the euro some analysts are predicting -- including a 10 percent fall after Sept. 11 -- the dollar would still be up more than 16 percent since the euro's debut in 1999.
A moderate decline in the dollar is not all negative. The dollar normally falls in a recession and that helps in the healing process. American exports like heavy machinery become relatively cheaper and thus more attractive abroad, while products aimed at the domestic market, like cars, become more competitive against imports that cost more.
Analysts are not expecting a precipitous plunge by the dollar that would make other financial markets unstable and, possibly, restrict the Federal Reserve's options on cutting interest rates. 
"There is a pace of decline that can reduce the pressure on the American export market but not restrain policy makers," said Robert Sinche, head of global currency strategy at Citigroup.
This all means that the dollar's major decline is expected to be against the euro, which is now the currency of 12 European nations. Several analysts are predicting that the dollar will fall to parity -- the euro equaling $1 -- over the next 12 months. The dollar fell 0.8 percent yesterday as the value of the euro rose to 91.70 United States cents.
But a big decline against the world's other major currency, the Japanese yen, is much less likely, given the shaky Japanese economy and financial system. Michael Rosenberg, head of global foreign exchange research at Deutsche Bank, projects that the dollar will rise about 4 percent against the yen in the next six months.
In fact, the Japanese government is working to weaken its own currency to try to ward off a recession by making its exporters more competitive. The Bank of Japan has sold yen and bought dollars -- and euros -- seven times in the last two weeks, pushing the value of the dollar higher. In the first eight days after the attack, the dollar dropped 3.9 percent against the yen. Now it is just 0.6 percent below where it was on Sept. 10.
"The dollar ought to decline in this environment," said Larry Kantor, global head of foreign exchange strategy at J. P. Morgan. "But when you do the math, it is hard to get much out of it."
The main reason the dollar has been resilient is that many of the United States' other major trading partners, in addition to Japan, are also suffering economically, in part because of their dependence on trade with America.
The Canadian dollar usually has not done well when the United States economy is in trouble and has been in a general decline against the American dollar since the early 1990's. Mexico, a major oil producer, could be hurt by the sharp drop in oil prices, which have fallen 15.4 percent since the attack. Australia depends on the export of wheat, coal and many other commodities whose prices have also fallen recently because of the threat of a global recession.
Wall Street's performance also made sticking with the dollar more palatable. While American stocks were hit hard, especially after the market reopened after being closed four days, they did not do any worse than stocks in Europe or elsewhere.
Also helping the dollar is the fact that the negative forecasts of a sharp economic decline are being combined, currently, with the expectation of a brisk recovery next year, in part because of aggressive interest rates cuts by the Federal Reserve, around $100 billion in new government spending and the possibility of another tax cut.
"If the recession and recovery unfold as we anticipate, the United States will be moving into a growth phase with low unemployment, very low inflation and high rates of investment," said John Lipsky, chief economist at J. P. Morgan Chase. "It is that favorable prospect that continues to limit the weakness of the dollar."
Of course, he added, "there are developments that could call that outlook into question."
The expected plunge into a recession, which makes the Unites States less attractive to foreign investors, along with the prospect of military action by the United States and the fear of what terrorists might do next, means the dollar will fall further for a while.
"I would not rush out and buy the dollar now," said Jeremy Fand, global head of foreign exchange strategy at UBS Warburg. "I still think there is risk for the dollar in the near term."
Mr. Soss of Credit Suisse First Boston also argues that the dollar will be weakened by a slowdown in American productivity as a result of the terrorist attack. This is because the enhanced security the country needs will slow the movement of goods and people.
The fall in stocks was discouraging foreign investors before Sept. 11. Now the decline in interest rates, led by the Fed's half-point cut when the stock market reopened on Sept. 17, is making fixed income less attractive. In just the last four weeks, the difference between the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note and Germany's 10-year security has gone from 4 basis points, or hundredths of a percentage point, in favor of the Treasury to 23 basis points in favor of Germany. And the Fed is expected to cut short-term interest rates when policy makers meet today.
Even a slowdown in the inflow of foreign investment will weaken the dollar, analysts say. This is because the United States has a $106.5 billion current account deficit that depends on foreign flows to cover it.
There were signs before the attack that important foreign flows were slowing.
In the second quarter, according to the latest data, foreign direct investment, which includes mergers and acquisitions, totaled $31.6 billion, down from an average of $37.2 billion in the previous four quarters. Flows into stocks slowed to $35 billion from $41.7 billion in the previous quarter, according to a breakdown by Citigroup.
Flows into bonds had not slowed by the second quarter, but Mr. Sinche of Citibank said "there is not a lot of reason to think that the fixed-income inflow that held up so well at the beginning of the year will do as well now."
And recessionary forces alone, like the slowing of trade, will push the dollar lower.
In the 1990-1991 recession, the trade-weighted dollar, adjusted for inflation, dropped 4.9 percent. It fell 6 percent in the 1973-1975 recession, which was the last time there was a concurrent decline of the world's major economies.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Euro to the dollar, since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); RECESSION (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); INTEREST RATES (50%) CURRENCY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) ;EUROPEAN UNION 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: ;FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); MEXICO (93%); CANADA (93%); BRAZIL (92%); AUSTRALIA (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); CANADA; EUROPE; MEXICO; AUSTRALIA; BRAZIL

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



39 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
Spending Edges Up, but Factory Index Drops

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Consumer spending rose modestly in August as tax rebate checks put more money in shoppers' pockets, the government reported today.
 For the second consecutive month, spending rose 0.2 percent, the Commerce Department said. 
Disposable incomes -- the amount of income left after taxes -- also rose for a second month, reflecting the effect of tax rebate checks and lower tax rates. 
 In August, disposable incomes increased 1.9 percent, the biggest rise since December 1993, after a 1.7 percent rise in July. Excluding the tax changes, disposable incomes rose 0.3 percent in July and August.
The income and spending figures are not adjusted for inflation.
Personal incomes, which include wages, interest and government benefits, were unchanged in August after rising by 0.5 percent in July, reflecting the weakened state of the nation's labor market. The flat reading was the weakest income growth since January 1994. 
Before the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, analysts were optimistic that consumers -- whose spending accounts for two-thirds of the nation's economic activity -- would continue to spend in coming months and keep the economy afloat.
Now most economists say the economy will fall into recession this year. In the wake of the attacks, consumer confidence has plunged, layoffs have jumped and billions of dollars in business have been lost.
Manufacturers, hardest hit by the ailing economy, foundered in September for the 14th consecutive month. The National Association of Purchasing Management said its index of business activity fell to 47 from 47.9 in August. An index above 50 signifies growth in manufacturing and below 50 indicates contraction.
Despite low interest rates, the slumping economy made builders more cautious. Construction activity fell 1.1 percent in August, after falling 0.8 percent in July, the Commerce Department said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Personal Spending"Total personal consumption in trillions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rates. March 2000-August 2001 Personal Spending and IncomeBillions of dollars, seasonally adjustedannual rates. ConsumptionAug.: $7,103.4Change from July: +0.2% IncomeAug.: 8,783.5Change from July: Unch.(Source: Commerce Department) Chart: "Construction Spending"Total construction spending in billions of dollars at seasonally adjusted annual rate. March 2000-Aug. 2001 Monthly ChangeAug.: -1.1%July: -0.8June: -0.9(Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (91%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); RECESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INCOME TAX (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); CONSTRUCTION (68%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; INCOME; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION) 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (82%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



40 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: 28,000 State Workers Strike in Minnesota, Drawing Fire 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Nearly 28,000 Minnesota state employees walked off the job today in a demand for higher pay, drawing criticism from many Minnesotans, who said the strikers were acting selfishly at a time of national crisis.
 Union leaders defended the walkout, saying that with national leaders urging Americans to return to their normal lives, the strikers, who have been without a contract since early summer, were doing nothing more than what they had threatened to do long before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11. 
 "On one hand we're told it's unpatriotic," said Jan Carlson, a regional director of the Minnesota Association of Professional Employees, which represents about 10,500 of the strikers. "But on the other hand people say let's return to normal and continue with our life, and strikes have long been a part of American life." 
The strike, one of the nation's largest in decades involving public employees, pits two powerful unions against Minnesota's usually outspoken governor, Jesse Ventura, who has adopted a low profile in this dispute.
The walkout began at 6 a.m. and immediately had a broad effect. Driving tests and birth registrations were delayed. The Minnesota Zoo was closed. The Minnesota National Guard deployed 920 of its members to help operate 120 state-run health care centers, whose social workers, psychologists, nurses' aides, food workers and janitors were among the strikers.
Many Minnesotans said they could not imagine a worse time for a strike, coming as it does when the nation is gearing up to battle terrorists, the economy is reeling, and any number of states, including this one, are struggling with deteriorating budgets.
"I think it's kind of inappropriate right now, because suddenly there are so many people out of work around the nation and so many people are hurting from Sept. 11," said Betty Hopewood, an accounts specialist at US Bank in downtown St. Paul. "There's so much need in other places right now. These state employees are paid pretty well."
The strike is "a lot," Ms. Hopewood said, "considering everything that's going on."
Passing a half-dozen pickets in St. Paul, Kent Nielsen, a police detective in the Minneapolis suburb of Brooklyn Park, said: "I personally don't think there is a need to strike. I don't think the distance between the two sides is far enough to warrant a strike."
But at a rally this morning near the stately, domed Minnesota Capitol here, union leaders, joined by hundreds of workers, maintained that the strike was justified. In past years, they noted, they have often accepted raises lower than inflation. Now they want a catch-up raise that is higher than inflation, a demand not met by the state's latest offer, made late Saturday night. 
State officials, predicting a budget shortfall, say they cannot offer more.
The state has offered the Minnesota Association of Professional Employees a one-time 4 percent raise in a two-year contract. It has offered a 3-percent-a-year raise for two years to the other striking union, Council 6 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, which represents about 19,000 state workers, most of them lower-paid than members of the professional employees association. (Some 1,700 members of Council 6 did not strike today; they are state prison guards, forbidden by law to do so.)
In contrast, Council 6 is demanding 5 percent annually for two years, a moderation of the 6.5 percent it sought until the weekend. The average yearly pay for members of Council 6 is about $31,000, and for members of the professional employees association $47,000.
The unions held demonstrations today in St. Paul, Duluth, Rochester, Brainerd, Mankato, St. Cloud and Moorhead. At the rally at the Capitol here this morning, members sang "God Bless America" and chanted: "Who does the work? We do. Are we patriotic? Yes." 
Lorita Powell, a customer service worker in the Department of Revenue, said she was insulted by the state's position.
"For the past three or four years," Ms. Powell said, "the state supposedly had a surplus and gave out huge amounts in rebate checks to the taxpayers. The past few years our raises were below inflation, and now they say they don't have enough money to even reach inflation."
Many strikers ridiculed Governor Ventura, accusing him of dodging the dispute.
Mr. Ventura issued a statement on Sunday saying he had sought to reach a fair settlement.
"The fact is," he said, "even with our last offer, we would have had to cut services and employees to retain a structurally balanced budget."
"I have a responsibility to the public to stay within the budget passed by the Legislature," the governor said, "and I will. The last thing I would do is put the State of Minnesota in fiscal jeopardy." 
Defending their offer, state officials noted that in addition to across-the-board raises, about half the unionized employees had received modest annual "step" raises that were pegged to increases in experience on the job. But many strikers complained that a state effort to change their health coverage would increase their co-payments and prescription-drug outlays in a way that would wipe out much of any raise.
The strike is having its greatest impact on several state-run homes for veterans, six large campuses for addicts and the mentally ill, and about 100 community-based homes for the retarded. Hundreds of National Guard troops worked closely with doctors, nurses and managers today to keep those operations running. 
"We've had only one day of strike, but so far we've been able to maintain our core treatment services," said Elaine Timmer, assistant commissioner in the Department of Human Services.
Many union members predicted a long strike, remembering that their last one, in 1981, continued for 22 days.
State and union officials said it was too early to tell how many workers had crossed picket lines.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking state employees rallied yesterday at the Minnesota Capitol in St. Paul. Their leaders dismissed accusations of selfishness amid crisis. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (93%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORISM (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); BUDGETS (69%); HEALTH CARE (65%); BUDGET DEFICITS (63%); COUNTIES (60%); GOVERNORS (58%); PSYCHOLOGY (50%) GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; STRIKES; ORGANIZED LABOR; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (59%) MINNESOTA ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL EMPLOYEES; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE, COUNTY AND MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; VENTURA, JESSE (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) MINNESOTA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



41 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Official in Election Battle Turns Eyes to Florida Race 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Katherine Harris, the Florida secretary of state who became a household name for her role in the presidential recount last year, is expected to announce on Tuesday that she will run for Congress next year.
 Adam Goodman, a veteran media consultant who had helped chart Ms. Harris's rapid ascent in the Republican Party, said today that she would issue a morning news release announcing her intentions. 
 "She is going to issue a statement that has consequences about her political future," Mr. Goodman said. 
Officials from the state's Republican and Democratic Parties have said that Ms. Harris has been putting together a campaign team in recent months and that they expected the announcement on Tuesday.
Ms. Harris, 44, is expected to run in the 13th District, a Republican stronghold around Sarasota. The seat is held by Representative Dan Miller, a Republican who has said he will not seek another term.
Republican Party officials predicted that she would easily win the Congressional contest and that the Democrats would have a difficult time finding a serious challenger.
"Certainly if Katherine Harris decides to run for Congress then she will be a congresswoman," said Daryl Duwe, a spokesman for the Republican Party. "She is enormously popular in that district; she is from that area and served that area in the State Senate."
The Democrats say, though, that they will vigorously oppose Ms. Harris in a district in which Mr. Miller twice ran unopposed.
"We're not surprised that she is running, and we do welcome Katherine Harris to the race because very few people will turn out more Democrats to vote," said Tony Welch, a spokesman of the Democratic Party, which so far has not announced a candidate in the district.
The wealthy granddaughter of a Florida citrus baron, Ms. Harris represented Sarasota in the State Senate from 1994 until 1998, when she was elected secretary of state, making her the state's top election official. It was a low-profile position until the presidential election thrust her into the spotlight. Her rulings on absentee ballots and late election returns were criticized as partisan by Democrats but enhanced her standing in the Republican Party.
Mr. Welch said her handling of office computers that were used in the recount was indicative of her mismanagement. In August, Ms. Harris turned over four computer hard drives used to draft correspondence during the presidential race for an inspection by news organizations to determine if any records were destroyed during the election stalemate in Florida last November.
The issue of the hard drive contents stems from an article in The New York Times on July 15 about the handling of overseas absentee ballots in Florida. The article said Republican political consultants, including Mr. Goodman, had orked on computers in the "war room" to help shape post-election instructions on which absentee ballots were valid.
Democrats have also criticized Ms. Harris for her international travel as secretary of state.
"It is a low-profile office," Mr. Welch said, "and it gained the highest profile of any secretary of state in the country by bungling an election and just about everything that followed that." 
Ms. Harris's office declined to comment today about her political intentions or the Democrats' criticism. Shortly after the series appeared in The Times, though, Ms. Harris defended her role in the election, saying she had acted properly and without bias. Although she initially denied access to the computers, she later decided to permit the examination, saying she wanted to assure the public that her office had maintained and released all public records and because of the "historical importance these records hold."
The independent investigation concluded that some information had probably been permanently erased but found no evidence that records had been systematically purged as part of an intentional effort to destroy election documents. 
While Ms. Harris may be an easy target for the Democrats to criticize, she may not be as easy to beat.
She is beloved in parts of the state, including Sarasota, for her work in expanding Florida's involvement in international commerce and as an arts advocate. As a state senator, she headed the commerce and economic development committee.
Just as important, supporters say, she is likely to benefit from a public suddenly united behind President Bush, much in the way his younger brother, Gov. Jeb Bush, is expected to in his re-election bid next year. 
Criticizing Ms. Harris, who was President Bush's Florida campaign manager, for her role in the election will now be significantly less effective, her supporters say.
"That would be a losing strategy," Mr. Duwe said. "People were already tired of hearing about it a long time ago, and post-Sept. 11 they do not want to hear the Democrats talk about allegations of a stolen election."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katherine Harris is expected to run for a Congressional seat. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BALLOTS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (84%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) ELECTIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) 

PERSON: AL GORE (58%) CANEDY, DANA; HARRIS, KATHERINE (SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GORE, AL; MILLER, DAN (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) FLORIDA

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



42 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Share Prices Fall a Bit After a Host of Profit Warnings

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stocks fell moderately yesterday as investors, still nervous about the scope of the United States military response to the terrorist attacks, were discouraged by more weak economic data and a fresh wave of corporate earnings warnings.
 Companies ranging from MGM Mirage, the entertainment, gambling and hotel company, to Jack in the Box, the fast-food restaurant chain, warned yesterday that they would not meet analysts' earnings estimates for the third quarter. Both said a decrease in consumer spending after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon had hurt their businesses. 
 Stocks dropped from the opening -- dashing hopes that the rally on Friday would carry over -- after economic reports showed that manufacturing continued to contract in September for the 14th consecutive month and that consumer spending grew less than expected in August.
But stocks narrowed their losses in the afternoon, bolstered by biotechnology, drug and airline issues.
The Dow Jones industrial average lost 10.73 points, or 0.1 percent, to 8,836.83. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index fell 18.34 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,480.46. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.39 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,038.55.
David Henwood, the chief investment officer at Raymond James & Associates, said the stock market's recent losses and the slowdown in consumer spending were dampening investors' sentiments.
"Coupled with poor corporate news and poor corporate earnings, it's not the best setting to get people excited about jumping in and buying stocks," Mr. Henwood said. "We had thought that you were going to see a turn in the economy in the first half of next year. That's a little more iffy now. It may not be until the second half of next year."
For the most part, trading was cautious yesterday as investors made few moves in advance of today's meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers, who are expected to lower interest rates.
Shares of MGM Mirage fell $1.14, to $15.81, after the company said its third-quarter profit would be substantially lower than the 38 cents a share that analysts had forecast. 
SunGard Data Systems also warned that it would fall short of Wall Street's forecasts, earning 21 to 22 cents a share. Analysts expected more than 25 cents a share. Its shares slipped $2.84, to $20.53.
Jack in the Box was one of the day's biggest decliners, falling $4.99, to $23.01. The fast-food company lowered its forecast for the entire year and said it expected to report earnings of 49 cents a share for the fourth quarter -- down from a previous forecast of 53 to 57 cents a share.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Bond prices gained yesterday as a decline in manufacturing in September bolstered expectations that the Federal Reserve would cut interest rates at a policy meeting today.
The price of the benchmark 10-year Treasury note rose 13/32, to 103 22/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.53 percent from 4.59 percent on Friday. The 30-year Treasury bond rose 21/32, to 100. Its yield fell to 5.38 percent from 5.42 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
3-Mo. Bills6-Mo. BillsPrice99.41498.825High Rate2.3202.325Investment Rate2.3642.384Low Rate2.29%2.26%Median Rate2.30%2.30%Total applied $31for,620,270$29,435,726$17Accepted,312,009$15,162,389$1Noncompetitive,404,964$1,031,179

Both issues are dated Oct. 4, 2001. The three-month bills mature on Jan. 3, 2002, and the six-month bills mature on April 4, 2002.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph tracks 3-Month Treasury Bills (High rate at weekly auction) from June-September. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); PROFIT WARNINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TERRORISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOTELS & MOTELS (57%); TALKS & MEETINGS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (73%); JACK IN THE BOX INC (58%); RAYMOND JAMES & ASSOCIATES INC (55%); SUNGARD DATA SYSTEMS INC (52%)

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (73%); JACK (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (73%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (58%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (52%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (52%)

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



43 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Compaq Misses Sales Goals And Expects Quarterly Loss
Compaq Computer said that it had missed its third-quarter sales goals by as much as 12 percent and would post an operating loss, largely because of a virtual halt to its business after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 Michael D. Capellas, the chairman and chief executive, cited additional reasons for the shortfall, including fallout from its announced merger with Hewlett-Packard. He insisted that the deal would continue. Page C6. 

Dollar Maintains Its Resilience
The dollar, a symbol of America's financial strength, has been surprisingly resilient in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon. Market Place. C12.

Consumer Spending Rises 0.2%
Consumer spending rose 0.2 percent in August as tax rebate checks put more money in shoppers' pockets, the government reported. Personal incomes, which include wages, interest and government benefits, were unchanged in August. A separate report showed that construction activity fell 1.1 percent in August, the biggest drop in 13 months. C8.

Stocks Slide on Economic Data
Stocks fell moderately as investors were discouraged by more weak economic data and a new wave of corporate earnings warnings. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 10.73 points, to 8,836.83. The Nasdaq composite index fell 18.34 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,480.46. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 2.39 points, to 1,038.55. C13.

Rules Shifting for Air Travel
Since the attacks, every aspect of air travel has come under re-examination -- not just security, but everything from customer service to flight operations. C10.

Thousands Could Lose Insurance
Thousands of people are in danger of losing their health insurance in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, according to consumer advocates and health care agencies. C4.

Reversal on New Accounting Rule
In an abrupt reversal, accounting rule makers have decided that no expenses stemming from the attacks will be classified as extraordinary. But the new rule will encourage companies to tell investors just how badly operations were hurt by the attack. C9.

Mademoiselle to Cease Publication
After struggling to revamp its identity in a depressed advertising environment, Mademoiselle, the 66-year-old magazine for young women, long considered a mainstay of the Conde Nast stable, is closing. It will cease publication with the November issue, which goes on sale next week. The editor in chief, Mandi Norwood, above, and the publisher, Lori Burgess, are leaving the company. C2.

Much of Swissair Seeks Bankruptcy
Swissair took action to revamp itself, including a filing for bankruptcy protection for many of its operations and a sale of control of its regional subsidiary to two large banks. In effect, Swissair will continue as a brand, but not as a company. World Business, Section W.

U.S. Inmates Seek Right to Sue
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether inmates in a federal prison or detention center run by a private contractor can file suit against the company, accusing it of violating their constitutional rights. A22.

Salon Turns to Subscriptions
The Web magazine Salon, facing lower advertising revenue and increased costs, has decided to make its news and political coverage available only to paying subscribers. C4.

French Company Withholds Fee
SFR, one of France's largest wireless operators, is withholding its initial payment on a new mobile phone license in an attempt to press the government into renegotiating the fees. World Business, Section W.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,836.83 down 10.73Nasdaq composite -- 1,480.46 down 18.3410-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.53% down 0.06The euro -- $0.9170 up 0.0071The dollar -- 120.26 yen up 1.14 Graph shows personal income from March through AugustAugust: no change

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (87%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); CURRENCIES (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); MERGERS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); WOMEN (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); TAX LAW (68%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (64%); APPEALS (50%) 02DIGE$03; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (59%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL CAPELLAS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



44 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 400 words

HEADLINE: Salon Will Start Charging its Web Readers 

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER 

 BODY:
The Web magazine Salon, facing sharply lower advertising revenues and increased costs for gathering news, has decided to make its news and political coverage available only to paying subscribers.
 The goal, said David Talbot, the editor of the six-year-old magazine, is to rely on circulation revenue for half of next year's $7.5 million budget. That goal, an ambitious one by the standard of any magazine, is an indication of the unremittingly sour climate for Web advertising. 
 Another high-profile online site, Steven Brill's Contentville, quit business on Friday, leaving its 15 employees without jobs. In an e-mail message to the staff, Mr. Brill said, "Despite the great work of the Contentville staff and the great support we had from our partners, my idea for Contentville just didn't work." Contentville allowed readers to go to one site to find and purchase articles from a variety of newspapers and magazines, as well as books, dissertations and other sources.
"We're dealing in a very difficult environment, not only for advertising," said Michael A. Kupinski, a media analyst for A. G. Edwards. "Finding subscription-based revenue is going to be a rough go."
Mr. Talbot said in an interview yesterday that he aimed to get 250 to 300 new subscribers daily until the end of the year. Salon charges $30 for a one-year subscription and $50 for two years, he said.
In a message to subscribers, Mr. Talbot wrote: "Some readers have implored Salon to reconsider this decision, pointing to the urgency of the times and the importance of Salon's coverage of world events. But this is precisely why we need our readers' support now. In recent days, Salon has committed substantial resources to covering the war between America and Islamic terrorism." Readers, he added, needed to pitch in.
The online advertising recession, which began nearly a year ago as one dot-com after another closed its doors, led Salon to develop its premium-content division in April. Since then, Mr. Talbot said, he has attracted 15,500 subscribers.
He said that two rounds of financing earlier this year had also brought in about $3.25 million, adding: "We've got enough money to give us a cushion. There's no real crisis looming for Salon." The magazine's stock price closed yesterday at 22 cents a share. It was delisted from the Nasdaq national market earlier this year, but trades on the Nasdaq small cap market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (90%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (90%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (90%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (84%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); INTERVIEWS (73%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); EQUITY FINANCING (65%); DELISTINGS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); RELIGION (50%) MAGAZINES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ADVERTISING; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: SALON (ON-LINE MAGAZINE) 

PERSON: BARRINGER, FELICITY; TALBOT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



45 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: United to Cut Business Fares By About Half 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
In the first major fare cuts since the terrorist attacks three weeks ago, United Airlines said yesterday that it was cutting business fares in the United States and Alaska by as much as 50 percent and was eliminating the Saturday-night stay for tickets bought 10 days or three weeks in advance.
 The new fares, which are available through the end of the year and include all holidays, are sure to be matched by the other major carriers, travel agents said last night. 
 "It's a tremendous sale," said Blake Fleetwood, president of Planetarium Travel in Manhattan. "In 20 years there has not been a sale like this." 
But business travelers, while providing the bulk of airline profits, make up only about 8 percent of passengers. "In order to bring the crowds back, they are going to have to cut leisure fares," he said.
Air traffic plunged after the terrorist attacks in which two United jets and two American Airlines jets were hijacked and crashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and a field in Pennsylvania. 
Indeed, American Airlines, the world's largest carrier, reported yesterday that its traffic fell 33.7 percent in September compared with traffic in the month a year earlier even as its capacity was down 22.3 percent. Continental Airlines said its traffic for the month was down 31 percent with an 18.6 percent decrease in capacity. The last two weeks of the month, 50 percent and 54 percent of its seats were filled with paying customers. American is a unit of AMR; United is a unit of UAL. 
Most major airlines need to fly with at least 65 percent of their seats filled to break even. Yet despite mounting losses that persuaded Congress to give the industry $5 billion in cash and $10 billion in loan guarantees, the major airlines were reluctant to cut prices to increase traffic. 
Many airline executives were convinced that the country was so traumatized by the attacks that fare sales would stimulate little traffic and therefore simply deepen their losses. But last week, passengers began to return to the country's airports in greater numbers. 
"We've been waiting for somebody to do something," said Terry Trippler, who tracks airline pricing for the Web site OneTravel.com. "It's like the marketing departments of the airlines left the country. I'm glad it's United who announced it first. They are getting back up, brushing themselves off and getting back at it." 
The new fares trim prices up to 50 percent for tickets bought 21 days in advance and up to 25 percent for tickets bought 10 days in advance. But in both cases travelers are not required to stay over a Saturday, a restriction the airlines use to compel business travelers who want to get home to see their loved ones on the weekend to pay more. 
For example, a round-trip ticket from New York to Los Angeles bought three weeks in advance will now cost $1,174 compared with $2,386. A ticket from New York to Chicago purchased 10 days in advance falls to $1,052 from $1,418.
The new business fares are still much higher than leisure fares, which require a Saturday stay over. But the cuts will go some distance toward reducing the gap between business and holiday fares, which ballooned during the economic boom in the last half of the 1990's. 
"This is a huge discount," Mr. Fleetwood said. "What it is doing is bringing some rationality back into the fare structure."
Even before Sept. 11, business travel had slowed drastically, creating economic agita for many carriers. "The airlines have got to get the briefcases back on the planes," Mr. Trippler said. "This could help them in the fourth quarter." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); AIR FARES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%); ONETRAVEL HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (51%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



46 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
World Bank Says Poor Nations Will Suffer Worst Economic Toll

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Though the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks will very likely take a heavy toll on the economies of the United States and other wealthy nations, they may have an even greater impact on poor nations that do not have safety nets in place to absorb a sharp economic downturn, the World Bank predicted in a report issued today.
 Slower growth in world trade, a slump in tourism, lower commodity prices and falling foreign investment could reduce economic output across the developing world, straining already weak social service and health care systems, the bank said. 
 It estimated that 40,000 children worldwide will likely die from disease and malnutrition and 10 million people will fall below the bank's extreme poverty line of $1 dollar a day or less as a direct result of slower economic growth. 
"We've seen the human toll the recent attacks wrought in the U.S.," said the World Bank president, James Wolfensohn. "But there is another human toll that is largely unseen and one that will be felt in all parts of the developing world, especially Africa."
The ripples from the attacks were varied and widely felt, bank economists said. Tourists have canceled about 65 percent of vacations in the Caribbean. Indian businesses are paying 10 to 15 percent more to ship goods abroad because of rising insurance and security costs. Agricultural prices have dropped globally by about 5 percent since the attacks, a loss that comes directly out of the incomes of farmers in Africa and Latin America.
Next year the richest countries on average are likely to expand at a 1.25 percent rate, down from a forecast 2.2 percent growth in 2002. Poor countries are expected to expand at a 3.7 percent rate, .6 percentage points off the bank's pre-attack expectations.
While the decline in output may be greater in the United States and other developed countries, those nations also have far greater resources to cushion the blow, the bank said.
"The 300 million poor in sub-Saharan Africa are particularly vulnerable because most countries have little or no safety nets, and poor households have minimal savings to cushion bad times," the bank said.
The growth estimates are preliminary, bank officials have stressed. Bank officials said they are prepared to step up lending as needed to counter the effects of the attacks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); AGRICULTURAL INCOME (77%); POOR POPULATION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); TRENDS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MALNUTRITION (72%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); MISSING PERSONS (71%); AGRICULTURE (65%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) ;INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%) SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFRICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



47 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Loudonville: A Drop In Consumer Confidence 

BYLINE:  By Leslie Eaton (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

 BODY:
 New Yorkers' confidence in their economic well-being, and thus their willingness to spend money in stores, plunged after the World Trade Center attack, according to the latest survey by the Siena College Research Institute. 
Confidence, as measured by a running index of attitudes, fell to 72.0 in late September from 80.7 in late August. The decline for metropolitan New York City was larger than in upstate New York, where the index fell from 82.2 to 77.6. Nationally, the index fell from 91.5 to 81.8 in the same period. Leslie Eaton (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (87%); CITIES (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



48 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Classified; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths; 
ANDRUCKI, JEAN

 BODY:
 ANDRUCKI-Jean. Born in New York Hospital on October 1, 1957. She grew up and attended school in Smithtown, New York. She was in the first class to attend Smithtown High School West, where she played three sports. She was in the first graduating class and was awarded the scholar athlete award and most valuable female athlete. While a student at Smithtown High School she and her dear friend, Kathy Hanlon, chaperoned dances for the Junior League for developmentally disabled citizens for three years. She also volunteered as a camp counselor at Camp Wilton in New York State. As a young woman, Jean led a group of adults and children who, for several years, sang in the local nursing home during the holidays. She also brought out children from the city to spend "weekends in the country" at Smithtown. Jean travelled extensively visiting Africa twice to view the natural beauty and the wildlife. She was greatly concerned about the environment and found her joy in the outdoors camping, kayaking, and bicycling. As an adult, Jean completed four triathalons and although girls could not play soccer when she attended high school, she did manage, as a woman, to join the Bergen Kickers and later to play with Leitrim's team in the upper Bronx. Jean attended Stony Brook University graduating in 1980 from an accelerated program and earning a B.A. in political science and an M.S. in Urban Policy Sciences. In 1981 she completed an M.S. in Mechanical Engineering. 
Jean was initiated into Pi Sigma Alpha, the national Political Science honor society. Jean joined the Port Authority in April 1982. In December '83 she was assigned to the Fire Safety Section. In '85 she was elected into the Society of Fire Protection Engineers. She advanced through the P.A. and was presently the Operations Manager for Risk Management in the Treasury Dept. Jean was the kind of aunt every kid wished for. She loved her nephews dearly and certainly did dote on them. They are George and Michael Andrucki and Michael Devlin Izzo. We truly looked forward to her weekends at home in her beloved Smithtown; she never really became a full fledged "city girl." We, her family, will grieve endlessly for her. Our lives and the lives of all her many friends will never be the same with the loss of her beautiful spirit and her compassionate, loving heart. The world will be a poorer place having lost this gentle and kind woman. Services for Jean will be held in Hoboken at Frank Sinatra park on Friday, October 5 at 6 P.M. and in Smithtown, St. Patricks Church, Main Street, 10:30 mass on October 11. In lieu of flowers donations may be sent to The Nature Conservancy, 4245 North Fairfax Drive, Arlington, VA. 22203-1606. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CALENDARS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (78%); ATHLETES (77%); WOMEN (76%); CAMPING (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (71%); SOCCER (71%); ENGINEERING (70%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); RISK MANAGEMENT (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (65%); MECHANICAL ENGINEERING (64%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (63%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (50%) 

ORGANIZATION: PI SIGMA ALPHA (54%)

PERSON: ANDRUCKI, JEAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



49 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Waiting for Economic Answers 

 BODY:
President Bush and his national security team have done a good job of assuring the American people that they understand the political and military challenges of the fight against terrorism. The administration has seemed less sure-footed when it comes to handling the threat to the nation's economy. With Congress beginning to debate a possible stimulus package this week, the White House has been surprisingly silent on how seriously it regards the current economic situation, or what it wants to do to improve it. Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill and the rest of the Bush team have yet to show full command of the issues they face. 
 The White House says the president has become convinced of the need for a sizable economic package but wants to consult with Democrats and Republicans in Congress on its size and shape. Tomorrow he plans to meet with business leaders in New York City. Aides to Mr. Bush say that the delay in shaping a package is wise, especially after both Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, and former Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin counseled two weeks ago that more time is needed before it is clear how much trouble the economy is in. 
 No one was expecting the administration to have a fully formed package by now. But it would be useful to hear some principles from Mr. O'Neill and others. First, the need to prop up a faltering economy should not be an excuse to carry out tax cuts that special interests have been pushing all year. Congress is likely to cave in to at least some demands of the business lobbyists unless the president draws a firm line. That is particularly important because the administration rounded up support for its income tax cuts by suggesting that business interests would get another crack at tax breaks for themselves later on. Mr. Bush must make it clear that he knows this is no time to redeem a pledge to campaign donors.
Only the president answers to the needs of the entire country. It is up to him to make sure that the stimulus package is very narrowly targeted on tax cuts and spending programs that will ease the lives of Americans who lose jobs during the recession, and encourage consumer spending. Jump-starting the economy will cost money, and probably send the federal budget into the red. In that case it is all the more important to make sure the money is spent wisely, preferably on infrastructure projects that will have a long and useful life. 
Mr. O'Neill's erratic statements have sometimes rattled investors and, according to some reports, marginalized him as a policy maker and spokesman. It was also not useful for the secretary to try to influence the markets with empty cheerleading and predictions of an imminent upturn. 
Americans are waiting for Mr. Bush to take command of the economy and show that he can adapt to changed circumstances and fashion a program that favors immediate need over ideology. If the president's current advisers are not up to the job of reassuring the nation, Mr. Bush needs to improve his bench. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); INCOME TAX (64%); MISSING PERSONS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; EDITORIALS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (56%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



50 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2017 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
In Pakistan, A Shaky Ally

BYLINE:  By BARRY BEARAK 

DATELINE: ISLAMABAD, Pakistan, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
For years, Pakistan has seemed a place about to blow. Bankruptcy is at the door; angry mullahs are at the gate. The corruption of the powerful is epic, the poverty of the masses crushing. The army has taken charge, again putting democracy on the shelf. More people own guns than refrigerators.
 This country, then, may seem a strange choice as America's indispensable ally in the hunt for Osama bin Laden. Islamic guerrillas -- many would call them terrorists -- openly operate inside Pakistan's borders, with government support. 
 But for the Bush administration, Pakistan it is -- a rediscovered crony from America's cold war days, forced back into friendship at gunpoint to fight terrorism. In his Sept. 19 speech to the nation, Gen. Pervez Musharraf, Pakistan's military ruler for the last two years, explained that he was facing an American ultimatum -- join us or fight us -- and that he felt that the country's very survival was at risk. 
In many ways, it is. The country is polarized. On one side stand sympathizers with the West who have felt increasingly marginalized in recent years and believe that the current turmoil may be a rare stroke of fortune that halts the "Talibanization" of Pakistan, a drift toward the fundamentalist Islam of neighboring Afghanistan. On the other stand the holy warriors, the hope of the country's myriad dispossessed.
Pakistan, with a population between 140 million and 150 million, is the world's seventh most populous country. Like many nations in the third world, it seems to be simultaneously moving ahead and falling behind at frantic speeds. It is this dichotomy that explains some of the violence of the country's conflicts.
Today, someone claiming to be from one of the best-known of Pakistan's radical Islamic guerrilla groups, Jaish-e-Muhammad, took responsibility for a suicide bombing at the state legislature in Srinagar, in Indian-administered Kashmir. The attack killed at least 26 people. 
One of this region's many open secrets is that the Pakistani government itself has armed Islamic militants, sending them off to fight the Indian authorities in Kashmir in an attempt to wrest the contested Himalayan territory, which is primarily Muslim, from Hindu control. 
A Pakistani Foreign Ministry spokesman, in a statement today, condemned the Srinagar attack. "Pakistan condemns terrorism in all its forms and manifestations," he said. 
But whatever the government's past relationship to Jaish-e-Muhammad, it seems clear that the United States, in its new determination to combat terrorism, has sided with a military government that has not been averse to backing insurgency in Kashmir.
Radical Muslim political parties, historically weak at the polls, are traditionally potent in the streets, where the number of poor and the number of refugees grow. Kalashnikovs are everywhere, as are men who know how to use them. Twin jihads -- one in Afghanistan, one in Kashmir -- save many from the idle hours of joblessness and fill them with lethal, self-righteous purpose.
But the radical Islamists drawn to holy war, however grateful for their supply of guns and grenades, very often despise the national leaders who provide them. The more those Pakistani leaders look like American cronies working to oust the Taliban government in Afghanistan, the more the hate may grow.
By drafting this fragile and fractious nation into a central role in the "war on terrorism," America runs the danger of setting off a cataclysm in a place where civil violence is a likely bet and nuclear weapons exist. 
Pakistan has long been the speculated locale for one of the world's worst nightmare scenario, in which Islamic terrorists, in league with rogue elements of the military, seize control of the government and wield the vengeful sword of jihad with a nuclear tip.
Islam is a growing force here. Hundreds of religious schools, known as madrassahs, have eagerly sent their students to fight at the Taliban's side. Pakistani border guards wish them well as they head to the front lines. 
Last Friday, in a drama repeated in hundreds of towns and cities across the country, mullahs at the Red Mosque in Islamabad followed the gentle chanting of afternoon prayers with frenzied threats of violence: Death to America! Let Americans come here to be buried!
A plea went out for 50,000 volunteers to defend Afghanistan against "the infidels." The entreaty was made with the desperate ardor of merchants at a going-out-of-business sale. Many of Pakistan's fundamentalist clerics endorse the Taliban's formula for a pure Islamic state. Without the Taliban, these mullahs would be without their rallying point.
An 18-year-old spectator, Tai Muhammad, said he had pledged his life to the anti-American jihad, enlisting at the mosque's sign-up table. "People like me will be the Americans' reception committee," he said, grinning in satisfaction. 
Lambasted along with President Bush was General Musharraf, called a traitor to his country, his religion and 1,400 years of Islamic history.
Afghanistan, Mr. bin Laden's sanctuary, is not merely Pakistan's neighbor. Pakistani intelligence agents have been the Taliban's godfathers, turning a throng of self-righteous religious students into a militia of self-assured soldiers.
Until recently, the Taliban have been useful to Pakistan, providing an ally on its western flank as rival India lurks to the east, and a breeding ground for Islamic militancy that could be redirected toward Kashmir.
So to many at the Red Mosque, Pakistan's cooperation with America seems like a sellout. 
American money, of course, is not an insignificant inducement, especially to a nation $37 billion in debt with virtually no prospects of climbing out of the hole.
So far, a windfall has yet to appear, though America -- suddenly forgiving of the testing of nuclear weapons and the eschewing of democracy -- has removed many economic sanctions against Pakistan. Together with the Japanese, the United States has rescheduled nearly $1 billion in debt and authorized $90 million in aid.
Indeed, renewed solvency is the hope of many Pakistanis who believe that a decisive battle has at last been joined.
"It's a wonderful thing," said a retired general, speaking on condition of anonymity. "We were in a state of drift. The silent majority was being dragged in a terrible direction by a very vocal minority. This is God-sent. We're saved."
That optimistic view is shared by much of a Westernized elite that would see the Taliban's overthrow as the logical halt to the onrushing fundamentalism in their own midst.
Many have long assumed that an upheaval was inevitable, with moderate Islam battling the religion's extremist, intolerant version.
That confrontation is better fought now than later, they say. "If there is a silver lining in this, it's that the radicals, the jihadists, will be de-fanged now instead of 10 years later when they'd be stronger," said Pervez Hoodbhoy, a physicist and peace activist.
But radicalism has deep social roots here. In the cities, the turn of a street corner can seem to be time travel between centuries. Wide boulevards clogged with expensive cars become narrow lanes where shrouded women carry jugs of water on their heads. 
About 75 percent of all Pakistanis reside in rural areas. Most are sharecroppers, eking out a subsistence. In some areas, feudal families still hold sway, making private laws and operating private jails.
While the wealthy send their children to college in America or Britain, many of the poor are deprived of even an elementary education. The literacy rate is below 40 percent. A fifth of Pakistan's government schools are "ghosts," with buildings but no students or teachers, General Musharraf himself admitted. This void increasingly has been filled by thousands of madrassahs. Considered a godsend by the destitute, they feed and house their pupils while teaching them the wisdom of the Koran and the moral requirement to fight in holy wars.
Islam is the great refuge of Pakistan's masses. In mosques, in the fields, on the roadsides, men drop to their knees and perform their daily prayers. However empty their pockets, they are equal in these genuflections before God.
But it is not a simple picture. Fundamentalist Muslims, like secular ones, are minorities. Between them are a multitude of gradations in the practices of faith -- one reason why recent polls suggest layers of ambivalence about the current crisis, 
Before General Musharraf's address to the nation on Friday, the pollster asked people whom they would support in a war between America and Afghanistan. Seven percent said America and 67 percent Afghanistan, with about 26 percent neutral. Four days after the speech, those who said they would side with the United States remained the same, though 20 percent shifted from Afghanistan to neutrality.
Some of this sentiment reflects a general doubt that America has enough proof against Mr. bin Laden to warrant a punishing attack on Afghanistan. At the same time, many Pakistanis are merely wary of America, regarded as a companion of shallow sincerity.
"Unfortunately, America seems to be Pakistan's friend only when it suits America's needs," said Zahid Mahmood, a bank manager. "When the need is over, America deserts you." 
In the 1980's, America had great needs in the region. In late 1979, the Soviet Union sent its troops into Afghanistan, getting itself closer to a warm-water port. Using Pakistan as a pipeline, the United States and other nations then financed the Afghan resistance. The Soviets soon found themselves bogged down in a crippling war against guerrillas adept at mountain combat. The cold war's end swiftly followed the Soviets' humbling retreat in 1989.
America's attention span, as well its affection, did not last much longer. That was a shock to Pakistan.
Money had seemed a token of friendship, and in 1990 the United States aid package to Pakistan was $564 million; only Israel and Egypt received more. But then the largesse was suddenly withdrawn, the penalty for Pakistan's continuing program to develop nuclear weapons in pace with its archenemy India.
"Looking out for No. 1, that's the American way, isn't it?" snickered Ajab Gul, a barber in Peshawar. "That is what Americans are proud of. We're different." 
But the loyalties of Pakistanis are no simple matter, either. 
In 1947, after a flurry of cartography, Pakistan and India were mapped out of the British Empire. Pakistan was devised with religious cohesion as a Muslim state. But it, rather than India, has been the one struggling for a national identity.
The country is split among several ethnicities and languages. Mr. Gul, the barber, is Pashtun and admits to feeling a greater affinity for the Pashtuns of Afghanistan than the Sindis of Karachi or the Punjabis of Lahore in his native land.
Democracy has never taken a firm foothold. The military has remained the dominant institution, and while it has failed in its three wars with India, it has had repeated success in overthrowing its own democratically elected governments.
During the 1990's, however, it was civilian governments that generally maintained control. The indefatigably corrupt governments of Prime Ministers Benazir Bhutto and Nawaz Sharif -- as well the stopped-up American spigot -- helped plunge the economy into the red while at the same time discrediting democracy in the eyes of the people.
Both Ms. Bhutto and Mr. Sharif now live in exile. Their political parties, the Pakistan Peoples Party and the Pakistan Muslim League, are in disarray. For now, public assembly is forbidden. 
By order of the Supreme Court, a return to civilian government is supposed to occur by next October. General Musharraf, who recently assumed the title of president, has promised to abide by the timetable.
But his future, like his country's, is now linked to matters that could not have been foreseen a month ago: the number of American soldiers who will touch Pakistani soil, the amount of blood spilled in reflexive outrage, the havoc caused by the coming onrush of refugees and the furtive ability of a Saudi-born multimillionaire named Osama bin Laden.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Muslim women shopping in Peshawar. Pakistan's economic divisions, like political and ethnic ones, are deep. (Lynsey Addario/Saba, for The New York Times)(pg. B3) Map of Pakistan highlights Islamabad: For most of Pakistan's history, the military has ruled in Islamabad. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (93%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); COUNTERTERRORISM (76%); AL-QAEDA (76%); HIJACKING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); BOMBINGS (72%); REFUGEES (71%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (71%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (70%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (65%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (62%); POLITICS (62%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; ISLAM; PAKISTAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; INDIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (70%); PERVEZ MUSHARRAF (58%) BEARAK, BARRY; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) KASHMIR (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); PAKISTAN (94%); ASIA (94%); INDIA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) PAKISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; INDIA; KASHMIR AND JAMMU; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



51 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Attacks Altered U.S. Plan For a Palestinian State
The Sept. 11 terror attacks led the Bush administration to postpone its first major Mideast diplomatic initiative, which included support for creation of a Palestinian state. Officials are now weighing how to revive the plan, which features proposals for a comprehensive settlement and an American role in carrying it out. A1

At least 19 Palestinians have been killed since the meeting on Wednesday between Shimon Peres, the Israeli foreign minister, and Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, that was intended to solidify the cease-fire. No Israelis have died. Each side accuses the other of not taking steps needed to make the cease-fire viable. A14

Iran-Russia Arms Talks
Admiral Ali Shamkhaniart, Iran's defense minister, arrived in Moscow to conclude long-delayed talks on a large purchase of Russian arms, an agenda now likely to be joined by discussions of Tehran's role in a global campaign against terror. A8

Race Quotas Proposed in Brazil
A proposal before the Brazilian Congress for racial quotas in universities, Civil Service jobs and even television soap operas has ignited an emotional national debate. A3

Colombian Official Slain
Thousands of people marched silently through Valledupar to protest the killing of Culture Minister Consuelo Aruajo by rebels. The rebel group, the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, blamed the army for the slaying, implying that she was slain because the army had undertaken a rescue mission. A10

Italian Leader Cleared
Italy's highest court acquitted Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of falsifying documents during the acquisition of a film company in 1987. The decision, in the final appeal of the case, cleared his conviction for false bookkeeping and vacated a 16-month prison sentence. A10

World Briefing A12

NATIONAL A16-22

Court Hears Rights Suit Over Privately Run Jail
The Supreme Court heard arguments on whether inmates in a facility run by a contractor can sue the company for violating their rights. The justices also refused to reconsider an appeal by Terry L. Nichols, the co-defendant in the Oklahoma City bombing. And former President Bill Clinton's membership in the Supreme Court bar was suspended. A22

Florida Official to Seek Office
Secretary of State Katherine Harris, who gained prominence for her role in the 2000 presidential recount, is expected to announce today that she will run for Congress next year. A16

Danger Seen in Too Much Unity
Senator Robert C. Byrd, Democrat of West Virginia, chided his colleagues for avoiding debate on serious issues in what he called an excessive effort to appear united after the recent terror attacks. A16

Minnesota Civil Strike
Nearly 28,000 state employees walked out in a pay dispute. A16

ARTS E1-8

OBITUARIES D14

SPORTS D7-12

Jets Lose to 49ers
A furious Coach Herman Edwards vowed to make changes after his team lost to San Francisco, 19-17. D7

NEW YORK/REGION D1-5

Mayoral Extension Plan Loses Ground in Albany
Mayor Giuliani's chances of staying in office past Dec. 31 dimmed markedly when state lawmakers declared the idea of their extending his term by 90 days all but dead. Some in the mayor's camp said he would not try to run for a third term. D1

Mark Green said he would have done "as well or better" than Mr. Giuliani in guiding the city through the past three weeks. Fernando Ferrer renewed questions about Mr. Green's endorsement of Mr. Giuliani's proposal to extend his term for three months to ease the transition. D3

Slain Girl Was Not Target
A 15-year-old Brooklyn girl, Victaya Anderson, who was fatally shot Sunday night as she left a talent show for teenagers, was most likely a bystander, the police said. D1

EDUCATION

Shortage of Principals
New York City public schools are now being run largely by a corps of inexperienced principals, reflecting the worst shortage in decades, officials and education experts say, warning that standardized test scores may dip slightly. Most principals have less than five years on the job, and 36 percent have less than two. D1

College Plans, After Attacks
Guidance counselors say many students appear to be sticking to their plans for going away to college and even applying to institutions in New York, despite the World Trade Center attack, though there are also signs that some students are now thinking of staying closer to home. D1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-12

Findings on Mercury Ingredient
There is no evidence that thimerosal, a preservative that contains mercury and was once used in childhood vaccines, poses a significant threat to the developing brain, an expert panel said. A18

Health & Fitness F5

BUSINESS DAY C1-17

United Reducing Air Fares
United Airlines, citing a decline in passengers since the terror attacks, will cut business fares in the United States and Alaska by as much as 50 percent and eliminate the Saturday night stay for tickets bought 10 days or three weeks in advance. C1

At the same time that United was telling Congress two weeks ago that it might go bankrupt without a bailout, its parent, UAL, was wiring $11.25 million to the French airplane maker Dassault toward an order for 30 business jets costing $20 million each. C1

Further Rate Cut Expected
Analysts said the Fed would probably reduce interest rates today. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

FASHION D6

EDITORIAL A24-25

Editorials: Waiting for economic answers; America's Central Asian allies; strong-arm tactics in the Senate; the N.F.L. drops the ball.
Column: Thomas L. Friedman.

Crossword E2
TV Listings E7
Public Lives D2
Weather A22

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); SUPREME COURTS (86%); APPEALS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ARMED FORCES (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); ACQUITTAL (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (69%); SENTENCING (69%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); ACQUISITIONS (68%); BUSINESS TORTS (66%); PRISON PRIVATIZATION (63%); RACE & RACISM (52%); CIVIL SERVICES (52%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: REVOLUTIONARY ARMED FORCES OF COLOMBIA (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (78%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); SHIMON PERES (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (71%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); BRAZIL (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN (71%); ITALY (54%)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



52 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 199 words

HEADLINE: Japan Is Preparing For a Recession 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
Having battled through three recessions in the last decade, Japanese executives are preparing for a fourth, and business confidence is dropping, according to the latest quarterly Tankan survey released today by the Bank of Japan. 
 The most closely watched indicator in the survey, the index of large manufacturers, plunged 17 points, to minus 33, the worst decline since the Asian financial crisis in 1998. 
A zero reading indicates neutral sentiment; negative numbers mean pessimists outnumber optimists. 
 Survey forms were mailed to 8,700 companies on Aug. 29; about 30 percent of the responses were received before the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States and the rest fterward.
Leading executives are steeling themselves for a long downturn. "We have to face the reality of recessions in the U.S. and Europe and a slow recovery in Japan," said Nobuyuki Idei, executive chairman of the Sony Corporation, which sharply cut its earnings forecast last week.
Naoyuki Akikusa, chief executive of Fujitsu, said he saw no recovery in the technology sector. "With demand for cellular phones and computers plunging, conditions in the semiconductor market have suddenly gotten more severe," he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ELECTRONICS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); TRENDS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (66%); SEMICONDUCTORS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

COMPANY: SONY CORP (69%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); FUJITSU LTD (56%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN 

TICKER: SON (LSE) (69%); SNE (NYSE) (69%); 6758 (TSE) (69%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); FUJ (LSE) (56%); 6702 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512220 INTEGRATED RECORD PRODUCTION/DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



53 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FEDERAL RESERVE; 
Fed Chief Urges a Considered Recovery Plan

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
In the wake of the terrorist attacks, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, has counseled Congress and the Bush administration not to rush ahead with an economic stimulus plan, saying that the government should take a little time to assess the scale and nature of the economic damage before acting.
 But Mr. Greenspan is not showing any such caution when it comes to his own area of responsibility, interest rate policy. Analysts said the Fed was all but certain to reduce rates when it meets on Tuesday, in what would be its second rate cut since Sept. 11 and its ninth this year. Odds are that this cut, like the last one two weeks ago, will be half a percentage point. 
 In moving quickly and aggressively, Mr. Greenspan is sticking to the playbook that has worked effectively through his 14-year tenure as central bank chief: deal with crises through rapid, forceful action to stabilize the financial system and the economy, and worry about longer-term consequences later.
But as he surveys the economic and political landscape, Mr. Greenspan confronts some tricky issues. One is the possibility that the Fed will cut rates too much, sending the economy into overdrive next year and forcing it to backtrack by raising rates.
The Fed has already brought its benchmark federal funds target down to 3 percent from 6.5 percent this year, one of the most intensive periods of monetary policy easing on record. The economy has probably yet to feel the full kick from the early rate cuts, which have a lag period.
Although this year's rate cuts do not seem to have packed as much of a punch as in the past, the Fed has often had to take back some of its cuts when the immediate crisis passed. When it rapidly lowered rates late in 1998 in response to the global financial crisis that began in Asia, it helped fuel what became an unsustainable economic and investment boom that led it to raise rates through much of 1999 and into 2000.
In 1998, of course, the economy was strong to start with, despite the turmoil in the financial markets; today, it is weak and almost certainly getting weaker. 
The National Association of Purchasing Management reported today that manufacturing activity declined in September for the 14th consecutive month. The group's widely watched purchasing management index fell to 47 from 47.9, a smaller drop than economists had expected, but the outlook is for further declines in the months ahead.
Moreover, oil prices have declined, giving the Fed leeway to act without worrying about inflation. And there is considerable pressure on the Fed to help restore investor, consumer and business confidence at a time when the psychological aftereffects of the attacks are probably more important in economic terms than the physical damage and disruption.
"The Fed is taking the attitude that it would rather err on the side of being too easy than not easy enough," said Paul L. Kasriel, a Northern Trust Company economist.
Still, Mr. Greenspan has to be careful not to expend his ammunition too quickly. If he and his colleagues lower the federal funds rate to 2.5 percent on Tuesday, they will have to consider holding future rate reductions to a quarter of a percentage point.
Otherwise, it would risk soon finding itself in a situation that afflicts the Japanese central bank: with official short-term interest rates at or near zero, it becomes difficult to use monetary policy to encourage economic activity.
Mr. Greenspan is also trying to gauge the proper stance for interest rate policy at a time when Congress and the administration seem increasingly likely to agree on a sizable, though as yet undefined, package of fiscal stimulus measures.
Even as he has encouraged Congress and the White House to go slow in developing a stimulus plan, Mr. Greenspan has advised Congress that if it wants to make any such package effective, it will have to be big. By that, he has said, he means something in the area of $100 billion, including steps taken so far, like the $40 billion in emergency spending already being disbursed for relief and military activities.
But Mr. Greenspan has also signaled he is worried that a fiscal stimulus package could become an excuse to abandon fiscal discipline, undermining plans to pay down most of the $3.3 trillion national debt over the next decade. 
Should the bond market suspect that the government has reverted to the profligacy of the 1980's, Mr. Greenspan suggested in Congressional testimony last month, it might punish the economy by pushing up long-term interest rates. Indeed, he said, there was some evidence that concern on Wall Street about the long-term budget outlook was already putting upward pressure on long-term rates.
Mr. Greenspan's concern about fiscal policy getting out of hand was driven in part by Federal Reserve research showing that the housing market has played a crucial role over the last year and a half in offsetting the losses that many households have suffered in the stock market. With home prices rising and mortgage rates low, homeowners have been able to refinance regularly, reducing monthly payments or taking cash out of their homes to spend on other things.
Should mortgage rates, along with other long-term rates, rise because of concern about the federal budget, that source of consumer confidence and cash could dry up, removing one of the few areas of strength in the economy.
The central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee will convene on Tuesday just after President Bush meets with leaders of both parties in Congress to begin drawing up the outlines of a fiscal stimulus plan. 
At a breakfast meeting with the lawmakers, Mr. Bush is expected to set out a framework for what such a plan would encompass, including aid for laid-off workers, tax breaks for companies and some sort of tax cut for individuals.
While the timing is a coincidence, it will be a chance for Mr. Greenspan to demonstrate that monetary policy can be applied more decisively than fiscal policy.
Mr. Greenspan, said Paul McCulley, an economist at the investment firm Pimco, "still believes that monetary policy should be the dominant and dominating countercyclical policy tool."

GRAPHIC: ChartThe Federal Reserve faces an economy where manufacturing remains weak, but it will be harder to spur growth by cutting interest rates targets while long-term rates remain so much higher than the short-term rates it influences more directly. Graph tracks MANUFACTURING INDEX (1999-2001)A reading above 50 indicates manufacturing expansion; below 50, contraction. Graph tracks TREASURY YIELDS (Oct. 2000-Oct. 2001)10-year note and 6-month bill(Source: National Association of Purchasing Management; Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (74%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); PRICE CHANGES (70%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (59%) ;FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) ;GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



54 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT; 
Bush Expected to Give Approval To Airport's Reopening Shortly

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 1 

 BODY:
President Bush has decided to reopen Ronald Reagan National Airport, administration officials said today, and will probably make the announcement on Tuesday. The officials added that the airport could begin operating within days.
 But the officials said the president wanted additional security, including what one described as "the heavy presence of air marshals" on flights. The officials also said that the number of flights would be limited at first, but that the US Airways and Delta Air Lines shuttles to New York would probably be the first to begin operations. 
 The officials also said the airplanes would not be restricted from taking off or landing from the north. Last week, officials said the Bush administration had considered such a restriction to avoid air traffic over the Pentagon. But officials said today that idea was rejected as unworkable.
Such a restriction would have sharply cut air traffic at the airport because jets need the flexibility to land and take off from both the north and the south, depending on the direction of the wind.
Mr. Bush was expected to announce other security measures for the airport, possibly including more screening of passengers and luggage, officials said.
Under such a program, pilots would have to identify themselves 20 minutes before landing at the airport, instead of just a few minutes before. They might also use special codes to verify their identities.
The White House has come under increasing pressure to open Reagan National, the only commercial airport in the nation still out of service after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. In the past week, its shutdown has created a battle between security and economics, with angry Virginia lawmakers threatening to push through legislation to force it open if the president did not act first.
The closing of the airport, which is in Virginia across the Potomac River from the White House and other national landmarks, has prompted thousands of layoffs, battering the area's economy and aggravating most members of Congress, who regularly use the airport.
The airport generates about $5 billion a year in revenue and normally employs 10,000 workers. But 4,000 of them have now applied for unemployment. US Airways, which has a hub there, has cut 11,000 jobs.
Today a Virginia delegation -- including Gov. James S. Gilmore III and Senators John W. Warner and George F. Allen met with Andrew H. Card Jr., the president's chief of staff, and Karl Rove, one of the president's closest advisers, to press their cause.
Afterward, Mr. Allen said that Mr. Rove and Mr. Card had been receptive to the case they had presented.
"Let's just recognize that the Secret Service, it's their job to be paranoid," Mr. Allen said. "But you can't live your life in a bunker."
Mr. Allen added that he had received a call from the White House late in the day inviting him to an announcement that the president expected to make Tuesday morning.
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, has repeatedly faced questions since last week about whether Mr. Bush -- who flies on Air Force One in and out of Andrews Air Force Base in Maryland, on the other side of Washington -- was concerned about the problem at Reagan Airport. Restaurateurs, hotel operators and taxi drivers are all hurting financially and say that the airport's closing had signaled to tourists around the country that Washington is a dangerous place to visit.
"He's very sensitive on these points," Mr. Fleischer said. "There are obviously security considerations because of the unique location of National Airport, which literally puts the airplanes on the flight path to and from National, seconds away from many major federal facilities."
Lawmakers and transportation officials agree that security must be increased at the airport. Last week, Norman Y. Mineta, the secretary of transportation, said he would be willing to place armed sky marshals on all flights arriving at or departing from the airport, if that would get it running again. Some local officials have suggested expanding the regional airspace security program.
Today the White House also said that Mr. Bush would visit an elementary school in New York on Wednesday, his second trip to the city after touring the wreckage of the World Trade Center on Sept. 14. Officials in New York said that the school was P.S. 130 in Chinatown, which was closed for the first days after the attack but has since re-opened.
Mr. Bush was also expected to meet in Manhattan with what one administration official described as "leading national businessmen and women to receive their perspective on the slowing economy, and have a dialogue."
Mr. Bush continued to talk today with foreign leaders by telephone, conversing with President Vaclav Havel of the Czech Republic and Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamed of Malaysia. Mr. Fleischer said Mr. Bush thanked Mr. Havel for the Czech Republic's support in recent days and told Mr. Mahathir that the administration's antiterrorism campaign was a "struggle against evil, and not Islam."
The president visited the headquarters of the Federal Emergency Management Agency today, where he thanked employees.
"Yours was an organization that was used to dealing with acts of nature -- hurricanes or tornadoes, and fires or floods," Mr. Bush said. "And then, all of a sudden, some evil people came and they declared war on America. And your agency and the good working people, true Americans, had to rise to the occasion."
 --------------------

Ouster Reported Planned at Logan
 BOSTON, Oct. 1, (AP) -- The head of security at Logan International Airport is being ousted, an official in the governor's office said today.
The security chief, Joseph Lawless, was appointed in 1993 as the head of public safety at the Massachusetts Port Authority, which runs Logan, the Port of Boston and several regional airports. Before then, Mr. Lawless, a former state police official, had handled security for Gov. William F. Weld. 
"He will be removed very soon," said the official, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
Acting Gov. Jane M. Swift was scheduled to make a speech Tuesday night to discuss her plans for tightening security at the Massachusetts Port Authority and throughout the state.
A call left for Mr. Lawless' spokesman after business hours Monday was not returned. Mr. Lawless has an unlisted home phone number and could not be reached for comment.
Governor Swift today called security lapses at the airport "unacceptable." The two jets that were crashed into the World Trade Center towers originated at Logan. About 150 National Guard members will be assigned to Logan and the state's other airports starting Friday.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush made a trip yesterday to the headquarters of the Federal Emergency Management Agency and thanked workers there for their efforts since the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and the Pentagon.; A Virginia delegation -- from left, Senator George F. Allen, Representative James P. Moran, Senator John W. Warner and Representative Thomas M. Davis III -- met with White House officials about Reagan Airport. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (95%); AIRLINES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); LEGISLATION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (61%); HISTORIC SITES (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; TERRORISM; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRPORTS; PENTAGON BUILDING; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; REAGAN, RONALD, WASHINGTON NATIONAL AIRPORT; LUGGAGE; MARSHALS; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (59%) ;US AIRWAYS; DELTA AIR LINES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (83%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); JIM GILMORE (50%); KARL ROVE (59%); TOM DAVIS (58%); JOHN WARNER (55%); JAMES P MORAN (50%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



55 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Making the Most of Giuliani 

BYLINE:  By Fred Siegel; Fred Siegel is a professor of history at Cooper Union and a senior fellow at the Progressive Policy Institute.

 BODY:
New York is on the edge of an economic abyss. That reality -- not the mayor's personality or city politics -- is what New Yorkers have to focus on as they consider Rudolph Giuliani's request to stay on for three months after his term ends. Regardless of who in New York likes Mr. Giuliani and who doesn't, and regardless of the unwillingness of many local politicians to see him remain in office even a day after Jan. 1, he has come to symbolize the best of New York to the rest of the country. And we badly need the rest of the country to help pay for our reconstruction.
 Before Sept. 11, the city and the nation were sliding into a shallow recession. Now, after the mass murder at the World Trade Center, the fall is expected to be steep, with New York especially hard-hit. In the first months of struggling to regain a footing, and with the sinking economy making adjustments harder, the city needs not only seasoned leadership, but also a spokesman who is viewed favorably around the country and can inspire as much national confidence as possible. 
 There are political obstacles, of course, to giving Mr. Giuliani 90 more days to get a coherent city response in motion. State and local legislators, who would have to approve any plan to let the mayor stay on, are not notably enthusiastic. Sheldon Silver, speaker of the State Assembly, suggested yesterday that Mr. Giuliani might become head of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which owns the trade center property. But that plan overlooks the importance of the mayor's national popularity at a moment of economic peril.
In the next month alone, New York could lose a frightening 108,000 jobs and nearly $17 billion in production and spending, according to a study by the Fiscal Policy Institute for the New York City Central Labor Council. The businesses below 14th Street are most deeply hurt by the losses of people and property downtown, but the lights are going out along Broadway, too. Hotels all over the city are half empty, and conventions are being canceled. The city has lost 5,300 jobs in air transportation. Sales at Federated Department Store outlets, including Macy's and Bloomingdale's, have been down since Sept. 11 by 20 percent nationally, but by 40 percent in New York.
But the biggest damage is to the financial industry, on which the city economy is disproportionately dependent: it accounts for less than 5 percent of New York's jobs but roughly 18 percent of wages paid in the city. Before Sept. 11, profits at financial firms were already faltering and Wall Street bonuses, the mighty engine of retail and real estate sales, were expected to drop by as much as 50 percent. Now not only will earnings and bonuses drop further, but a slow slide in local employment in this industry has given way to an avalanche of job losses.
Many of the jobs fleeing to New Jersey and elsewhere will never return. And with so much office space lost, we now face the unpleasant prospect of rising rents in the midst of an economic slump, adding to the pressure on businesses.
Time is of the essence in mitigating what's likely to be a deep downturn for New York. The struggling businesses need help now, not after a new mayor learns the ropes. And the country's sympathy and attention are with us now. By the time the next mayor is fully in control of the city government, the 2002 political season will have begun, as will a new year of budget negotiations for the federal and state governments, which will both find themselves in fiscal difficulty. New York needs to move quickly on its rebuilding agenda before our needs get caught up in the inevitable complication of Congressional, state legislative and gubernatorial races, not to mention fights over the 2002 reapportionment of legislative seats.
Washington has promised $40 billion in recovery and rebuilding money, but what kinds of strings will be attached? And who will receive the money? Will it be Albany or the port authority, both of which have agendas not always in synch with New York City's?
Mayor Giuliani's national popularity is an invaluable asset for the rebuilding of New York. Why not make the most of it? If he can stay in charge for an additional three months, he can help move the federal money through Congress with a maximum of speed and minimum of restrictions while magnifying the city's say in how the money is used.
Unprecedented events demand unprecedented responses. It is in the interest of all of New York to let Mayor Giuliani seize the moment so that by April 1, when a new mayor takes charge, the city will at least have a fighting chance to stave off the worst of what the economy has in store for us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HIJACKING (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); RECESSION (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TRENDS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (70%); TERRORISM (69%); RETAIL PROPERTY (69%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (66%); RETAILERS (65%); RETAIL SALES (60%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; PENTAGON BUILDING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MAYORS 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%) SIEGEL, FRED; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



56 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED; 
Words to a Hurt World: Action, Not Deliberation

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's address yesterday to the General Assembly of the United Nations, as recorded by The New York Times.
 On Sept. 11, 2001, New York City, the most diverse city in the world, was viciously attacked in an unprovoked act of war. More than 5,000 innocent men, women and children of every race, religion and ethnicity are lost. Among these were people from 80 different nations. To their representatives here today, I offer my condolences to you as well on behalf of all New Yorkers who share this loss with you. 
 This was the deadliest attack -- terrorist attack -- in history. It claimed more lives than Pearl Harbor or D-Day. This was not just an attack on the city of New York or on the United States of America. It was an attack on the very idea of a free, inclusive and civil society. It was a direct assault on the founding principles of the United Nations itself. 
The preamble to the U.N. Charter states that this organization exists to reaffirm faith in fundamental human rights, in the dignity and worth of the human person, to practice tolerance and live together in peace as good neighbors and to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security. 
Indeed, this vicious attack places in jeopardy the whole purpose of the United Nations. . . . 
The United Nations must hold accountable any country that supports or condones terrorism. Otherwise, you will fail in your primary mission as peacekeeper. 
It must ostracize any nation that supports terrorism. It must isolate any nation that remains neutral in the fight against terrorism. Now is the time, in the words of your charter, the United Nations Charter, to unite our strength to maintain international peace and security. 
This is not a time for further study or vague directives. 
The evidence of terrorism's brutality and inhumanity, of its contempt for life and the concept of peace, is lying beneath the rubble of the World Trade Center less than two miles from where we meet today. 
Look at that destruction, that massive, senseless, cruel loss of human life, and then I ask you to look in your hearts and recognize that there is no room for neutrality on the issue of terrorism. You're either with civilization or with terrorists. On one side is democracy, the rule of law and respect for human life. On the other is tyranny, arbitrary executions and mass murder.
We are right and they are wrong. It's as simple as that. And by that I mean that America and its allies are right about democracy, about religious, political and economic freedom. And the terrorists are wrong, and in fact evil, in their mass destruction of human life in the name of addressing alleged injustices.
Let those who say that we must understand the reasons for terrorism come with me to the thousands of funerals we're having in New York City -- thousands -- and explain those insane, maniacal reasons to the children who will grow up without fathers and mothers and to the parents who have had their children ripped from them for no reason at all. . . . 
We're a city of immigrants unlike any other city, within a nation of immigrants.
Like the victims of the World Trade Center attack, we're of every race, we're of every religion, we're of every ethnicity. And our diversity has been our greatest source of strength. It's the thing that renews us and revives us in every generation -- our openness to new people from all over the world. 
So from the first day of this attack, an attack on New York, on America, and I believe on the basic principles that underlie this organization, I've told the people of New York that we should not allow this to divide us because then we would really lose what this city is all about. . . . 
We can't let terrorists change the way we live. Otherwise they will have succeeded.
In some ways, the resilience of life in New York City is the ultimate sign of defiance to terrorists. We call ourselves the capital of the world in large part because we're the most diverse city in the world. And we're the home of the United Nations. So that spirit of unity amid all our diversity has never ever been stronger. . . .
Freedom from fear is a basic human right. We need to reassert our right to live free from fear with greater confidence and determination than ever before here in New York City, across America and around the world. With one clear voice, unanimously, we need to say we will not give in to terrorism. 
Surrounded by our friends of every faith, we know this is not a clash of civilizations. It's a conflict between murderers and humanity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); TERRORISM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); RELIGION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); ETHNICITY (72%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) ;UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (88%) GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



57 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 2, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Progress on Three Fronts

ANTITERRORISM BILL -- Negotiators in the House reached agreement on an antiterrorism bill that would give law enforcement officials expanded authority to wiretap suspected terrorists, share information about them and seize their assets. A1

VICTIMS' REMAINS FOUND -- Searchers found the remains of 50 people at the World Trade Center site. B7

BARGE PORTS FOR CLEANUP -- New York has nearly completed a super-accelerated river dredging to create barge ports to carry away debris. B7

Campaign Against Terror

CALL FOR ACTION AT U.N. -- Mayor Giuliani told the countries of the world to abandon neutrality to fight terrorism, saying, "You're either with civilization or with terrorists." A1

CARRIER DISPATCHED -- The Pentagon ordered a third aircraft carrier to sail toward the Arabian Sea. B1

BIN LADEN CALLED MOTHER -- A foreign official said Osama bin Laden called his mother in Syria the day before the Sept. 11 attacks to tell her he could not meet her there because "something big" was imminent. B5

The Real Face of Pakistan

SHOTGUN ALLIANCE -- Pakistan may seem an odd choice as America's crucial ally -- an old crony from the cold war days, forced back into friendship at gunpoint to fight terrorism. A1

TERRORIST ATTACK IN KASHMIR -- At least 26 people died after a suicide squad struck a fortified Legislative Assembly building, officials said. B3

Child Soldiers; Old Kings

AN AFGHAN PORTRAIT -- The Afghan opposition forces range from a deposed king to the Northern Alliance's tribal leaders, warlords and boys. A1

MOVE TO REPLACE TALIBAN -- The exiled Afghan king and leaders of the Northern Alliance agreed to a first step toward replacing the Taliban. B2

Mourning in New York

CHARITY PLAN -- Mayor Giuliani said he would coordinate the charitable groups responding to the attacks on the World Trade Center. A1

NEEDIEST CASES B8

Suspects and Money Trails

ATTACK ON TALIBAN EXPECTED -- Pakistan's president said he expects the United States to take military action in Afghanistan in response to the Taliban's refusal to hand over Osama bin Laden. B1

ARRESTS IN BOSNIA -- Four people were detained in Sarajevo on suspicion of terrorist-related activity. B4

SQUEEZING ASSETS -- The Bush administration released the names of 19 countries that have agreed to freeze terrorists' assets. B4

ECONOMIC PERIL -- The World Bank said that the Sept. 11 attacks would likely take their heaviest economic toll on poor nations. B4

National Security Debate

REAGAN AIRPORT TO REOPEN -- President Bush has decided to reopen Ronald Reagan National Airport, administration officials said. B1

GUARDING CHEMICAL ARMS DEPOTS -- The Army has tightened security at the nation's chemical arms depots. B6

Portraits of Grief B9

Science

ASSESSING RISK -- Some experts say the risk of a terrorist striking with weapons of mass destruction is lower than generally perceived. F1

Business

HEALTH PERIL -- Thousands could lose their health insurance in the aftermath of the attack on the World Trade Center, consumer advocates said. C4

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (95%); COUNTERTERRORISM (93%); ASSET FORFEITURE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); AIRPORTS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (85%); CHARITIES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); HIJACKING (77%); NAVAL VESSELS (76%); COLD WAR (75%); ARMIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); AIRLINES (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); SUICIDE (72%); MISSING PERSONS (72%); WIRETAPPING (72%); CHILD SOLDIERS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); MILITARY VESSELS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); ARMED FORCES (64%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); RUDY GIULIANI (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (79%); KASHMIR (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (93%); SYRIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); ASIA (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001 



58 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: World Tourism Officials Look Hard for Optimism 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: OSAKA, Japan, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Along with a tropical rain, gales of bad news battered a world tourism conference here this week: dozens of trans-Pacific flights canceled, hundreds of Japanese tour groups dropping trips to the United States and tourism bookings vanishing in Asia's poorest nations, including Cambodia, Nepal and Thailand.
 But inside the hall housing the World Tourism Organization meeting, industry veterans urged a steady hand at the tiller as the $500 billion travel and tourism industry navigates a world changed by the terror attacks of Sept. 11, when four commercial jets were hijacked in the United States and three were used as missiles. 
 In the short term, some countries, like China, will probably gain, while others, like the United States, will probably lose. But in the long term, they said, world tourism will continue to expand. 
"For Europeans, Japanese and Americans, business and pleasure travel have now become a fundamental need," Francesco Frangialli, secretary general of the organization, said.
Taking the long view, Mr. Frangialli said he thought air security issues would be resolved, consumer confidence would return, and after a bad fourth quarter of 2001, world tourism would resume growing by 4 percent a year. 
Delegates from Europe said a return to normal travel was in sight.
"By the end of September, the net effect of cancellations and new reservations was a drop of 4 percent -- in terms of volume, that's half a day of work," said Felipe Gonzalez Abad, director general of Savia Amadeus, a reservation system used by 6,000 travel agencies in Spain.
The apparent decision by the United States not to retaliate against Afghanistan with a big conventional military campaign seems to be reassuring European travelers.
"We have seen a significant improvement in bookings since the U.S. has communicated that the action is likely to be covert, rather than overt," said Martin Brackenbury, international director of Airtours, a British tour operator.
While Britons may tell pollsters they are reluctant to fly, they appear to be equally reluctant to pass up bargains. "People may have anxieties, but if the price is right, they will still fly," Mr. Brackenbury said. His company, he said, was having success filling seats using discounts.
Pushed by people's hunger to get away from home, travel has historically proved resilient. In this crisis, Europeans will still travel, although they may drive to Southern France rather than fly to Morocco. Something similar is at work in Japan, where trips to America are being scrapped in favor of China or trips within Japan.
As a group, the Japanese spend much more traveling abroad than foreigners do visiting Japan, and they contribute greatly to the travel surplus of the United States. But the Japan Travel Bureau, the nation's largest travel operator, has already recorded 78,600 cancellations of Japanese trips to the United States for September and October.
"We fear that the terrorist attack has more impact on air trips," Tsuneo Nishiyama, a spokesman for the bureau, said in Tokyo. "A phenomenon of avoiding airplanes is emerging now."
Fear of flying across the Pacific is costing Japanese airlines dearly. Japan Air Lines, which earns about 40 percent of its revenue on trans-Pacific flights, expects to lose $150 million from canceled flights in September and October. It flies less often now to Hawaii, Chicago, Los Angeles and New York. Its main rival, All Nippon Airways, lost 30 percent of its international traffic volume for the last three weeks in September.
"The terrorist attack was a major blow for airline companies," Yasuhiro Takebayashi, a JAL spokesman, said today. "We don't know how big the damage will develop into or how long it will last."
Crowds seemed thin today at Narita, Tokyo's international airport, where just a few weeks ago, 75,000 passengers passed through each day. But Haneda, Tokyo's domestic airport, seemed unaffected.
"Many Japanese tourists are afraid of international flights, but domestic traffic is almost normal," said Etsuko Yano, who checks in passengers for All Nippon at Haneda.
American carriers have sharply curtailed trans-Pacific service, with half the usual number of weekly flights on some routes, like United's Tokyo-Chicago run, and none at all on others, like Northwest's Osaka-Los Angeles service.
Many seats on those flights were once filled by Japanese business travelers, but companies are keeping them home. "We basically banned all the overseas trips by employees, including employees of our offices in the U.S. and Asian countries," said Kenji Hamai, a spokesman for Fuji Xerox.
In the rearranging of tourism within Asia, Hong Kong and the rest of China are seen as safe and appear to be emerging largely unscathed. "For China, this is not a real problem," said Zhang Xin Hong of the China National Tourism Administration.
But more turbulent Asian nations are losing visitors. Cambodia's tourist arrivals dropped by an estimated one-quarter in September. Nepal has lost about half of its hotel bookings for its fall season.
After gangs of Islamic extremists conducted "hunts" for Americans in some parts of Indonesia, the State Department warned Americans to put off travel to the country, the world's largest Muslim nation, and Americans are now scarce there.
Even Thailand, Southeast Asia's leading destination, will probably have to settle for 2 percent growth in arrivals over last year, rather than 8 percent.
"It's just inappropriate to travel now -- this is not the time to have fun," said Akiko Yamamoto, a 31-year-old graduate student in Tokyo, explaining why she and her sister canceled their trip to Thailand last week. Noting heightened activity at American bases in Japan, she said, "I assume there will be many combat planes flying around Japan; it's not fun to imagine my aircraft flying with warplanes."
Attitudes like these mean tourism planners must start promoting again, C. Derek Hood, Japan director for the Canadian Tourism Commission, said at the conference. Noting that Canada has become the No. 3 destination for Japanese tourists after the United States and Britain, Mr. Hood said he would go ahead with a four-day trade show promoting Canadian travel in Tokyo and Osaka this month.
Many at the conference predicted that world travel would be back on the growth curve when they meet again two years from now in China.
"It was pretty frightening to see those images on TV, but I think those fears fade pretty fast," said Deborah Luhrman, a spokeswoman for the conference, which began last week in South Korea. "I was scared to come to Seoul, but as soon as I got on the plane, all those fears went away. I was back doing what I have been doing every month for the last 10 years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A sharp slowdown in the tourism industry led to long lines and lengthy waits last week at the Honolulu unemployment insurance claims office. (Cory Lum for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); HIJACKING (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); TICKET AGENCIES (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); COMPUTERIZED RESERVATION SYSTEMS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); AVIATION SECURITY (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); TOURISM (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (67%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR

COMPANY: JTB CORP (58%); SISTEMAS AUTOMATIZADOS PARA AGENCIAS DE VIAJE SA (54%); JTB USA INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION (83%) ;WORLD TOURISM ORGANIZATION 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; FRANGIALLI, FRANCESCO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); OSAKA, JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); EUROPE (93%); THAILAND (92%); ASIA (92%); SPAIN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); AFGHANISTAN (78%); FRANCE (75%); MOROCCO (51%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); CHINA

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



59 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1145 words

HEADLINE: Okinawa Justice Is Tilted Against Them, Americans Say 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: MIHAMA, Japan, Sept. 29 

 BODY:
This is the story of a rape and of a death and the different attention each has provoked on this small island where more than 20,000 American troops are based.
 Both incidents can be traced back to an unassuming restaurant named the 3F, which caters to Japanese and to the American troops based here in almost equal measure. Both incidents have reflected and accentuated the tensions here over an American presence that a growing number of Japanese find excessive. 
 First came the reported rape of a Japanese customer by Timothy Woodland, a 24-year-old Air Force staff sergeant, at 2 a.m. on June 29 in the parking lot outside the restaurant. 
Then, barely a week later, Gerald C. Fearr, the 62-year-old American husband of the Japanese owner of the restaurant, died moments after being struck, in front of his house, in a late-night altercation with a young Japanese man. The dispute centered on a a debt owed by Mr. Fearr's wife.
Among Okinawans, the allegation of rape quickly became a focus for rage, the most widely deplored in a growing list of offenses of which American servicemen here have been accused since the rape of a 12-year-old schoolgirl by two marines and a sailor in 1995. 
But although Mr. Fearr's death became front-page news in the American military newspaper Stars and Stripes and was deplored by those who knew him here, it received almost no coverage in the Japanese press and prosecutors quickly dropped the matter. 
For Mr. Fearr's family and for foreign military personnel in Okinawa, the contrast in the official handling of the two cases is glaring.
They contend that the legal deck is stacked against Americans on this island where feelings toward the American presence have become increasingly hostile.
"Out there a person may have been raped, and they had police around here day and night combing the area for evidence and using lie detectors," said Ken Roberts, a retired Air Force master sergeant who is married to Mr. Fearr's stepdaughter and is the manager of the 3F restaurant.
"Another man was killed in front of his house," he continued, "and the police just came by once, noted the position of the body and were like, sorry." 
Okinawan authorities deny that they treated Mr. Fearr's death lightly, and point to their arrest and brief detention of a suspect, Riki Matsuyama. "The suspect was charged with assault," said Junichi Okumura, deputy chief prosecutor. "The charges were dropped because the autopsy results showed no direct link to the victim's death. The cause of death was a heart attack."
As Mr. Fearr's case languishes, the rape case has had ever widening repercussions. The trial of Sergeant Woodland began recently. He has insisted on his innocence.
Already, the trial is one of the most heavily publicized court cases in Japanese history. It has come to encompass decades-old grievances over the concentration of many of the 47,000 American forces in Japan on this small island.
Since the end of World War II, American troops have been stationed here, where they can easily be sent to the Asian mainland in case of a conflict there. The United States maintained complete control of the island until 1972, when the administration reverted to Japan.
The arrangement has long been considered convenient to both countries because of the island's proximity to potential conflict zones near Taiwan and the Korean peninsula for the Americans, and because the concentration of large numbers of American troops here kept them out of sight of the bulk of Japan's population, which lives elsewhere.
A political movement aimed at eliminating the American presence sprung up in Okinawa almost immediately after it reverted to Japanese control. This movement gained popularity in the 1980's after a series of incidents involving American troops angered the population.
Okinawa's economy, however, is heavily dependent on the American presence, with most jobs and much of the commerce related directly or indirectly to the American military presence. Despite the political opposition, opinion polls have consistently indicated that a majority of Okinawans do not favor the total withdrawal of Americans from the island. 
Still, the rape case has been a major irritant in relations between the United States and Japan, although that has been somewhat muted by a strong show of solidarity after the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States.
The trial has had nonstop news media coverage. Charges have been energetically pressed. The proceedings have prompted American complaints about due-process shortcomings in the Japanese legal system, both from American diplomats and from Americans here.
The perception of a discrepancy in the handling of incidents involving Japanese and foreign suspects has fed American anger. While the Woodland case continues to garner front-page attention, the recent arrest of a sergeant from Japan's Self Defense Force for molesting a 12-year-old girl merited only a brief item in most newspapers. 
American officers have been privately scathing in their reactions to the Woodland case. "If Woodland is guilty then he should be punished," said a senior American officer. "But there is a very real question whether a man who has already been convicted in the press can get a fair trial under a system like the one they have here."
Many of the concerns over the Japanese legal system were stated openly during an uneasy few days when the United States hesitated before surrendering Sergeant Woodland.
It was only the second time the American military had handed over a suspect to Japanese authorities before an indictment, and the surrender came about only after high-level discussion between the two countries. 
Criminal suspects, like Sergeant Woodland, are theoretically subject to 23 days of detention, during which time they can be interrogated indefinitely, without the benefit of counsel. 
Since his indictment, Sergeant Woodland has been held without bail in a spartan detention cell without cigarettes, newspapers, television or air-conditioning. He is able to communicate only with his mother, grandmother and lawyer. Even Bibles sent to him by well-wishers have been given to him with messages of encouragement ripped out, United States military sources say. 
For the sergeant's Japanese lawyer, too, the case raises questions of fairness, but not necessarily the procedural ones that worried American military authorities.
"American servicemen tend to hang out with and date Japanese ladies in places like this," said the lawyer, Tsuyoshi Aragaki. "I personally think that this was the background to this matter." Mr. Aragaki said that his client and the plaintiff had sexual intercourse, but that it was consensual.
He added that the reported rape should have been treated as an ordinary criminal case. But now, "this is no longer about an American serviceman, but about the larger issue of American bases in Okinawa."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Young Japanese women and American servicemen dancing at Elles, another bar near the Kadena Air Base in central Okinawa.; Ken Roberts, 32, in the restaurant he manages in Mihama. He said the police had treated the death of his father-in-law in a dispute lightly. (Photographs by Stuart Isett for The New York Times) Map of Okinawa highlighting Mihama: Two incidents in Mihama have increased tensions on Okinawa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); SEX OFFENSES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); DEATHS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); AIR FORCES (77%); AUTOPSIES (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (71%); ARRESTS (67%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%); STEPPARENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



60 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: A Looming New York Fiscal Crisis 

 BODY:
The New York economy, already shaky before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, is headed for an aftershock that could produce the biggest budget crisis since the 1970's. Estimates of lost city and state tax revenues over the next 18 months approach $10 billion. The shortfalls would come on top of multibillion-dollar deficits already projected for the next fiscal year. In preparing his first budget, the next mayor of New York City may have to close a gap of $4 billion or more, a nearly impossible task without major sacrifice by New Yorkers and help from Albany and Washington.
 Until recently, some of the mayoral candidates might as well have been campaigning on the moon for all the attention they paid to the challenge lying ahead. Now they are beginning to speak more frankly about the future problems. But the difficulties with the city's budget were not all created by the terrorists. Irresponsible practices over the last several years allowed the Giuliani administration and City Council to use surpluses from the Wall Street boom to plug deficits that were bound to remain when the boom faded away. 
 The city can probably limp through its current fiscal year, which ends next June 30. But for the year beginning July 1, the Giuliani administration is projecting a $4 billion gap. That would represent about 8 percent of the budget, and it does not include any raises negotiated in future labor contracts. It would be heartbreaking for City Hall to have to ask the city's heroic work force, especially its uniformed services, for pay freezes and givebacks. It would be almost suicidal to try to deny the teachers a significant wage hike at a time when higher-paying suburban schools are competing for staff and city students are being required to pass increasingly difficult achievement tests. But some very tough choices are in the offing.
The city will no doubt call for help from Albany, and the state needs to do what it can. But Gov. George Pataki and the Legislature are not likely to have much leeway. The state budget is itself dependent on the very businesses that have been hit hardest -- finance, insurance, tourism and retail sales. With its so-called "bare-bones" budget passed earlier this year -- and decried as inadequate by everyone from Mr. Pataki to the local school districts -- the state can very likely make it to the end of its fiscal year on March 31. For the next year, the state could easily face its own deficit of several billion dollars.
One way of easing the crunch would be through federal aid -- if Washington can be persuaded to compensate the city for tax revenue lost because of the destruction of the World Trade Center. The city also may be able to use $2.5 billion in emergency borrowing allowed by the Legislature. But that could create new problems: If the city runs a deficit of more than $100 million, the laws enacted during its fiscal crisis of the late 70's call for a control board, headed by the governor, to take over city finances. To address all these problems, Mr. Pataki should begin working immediately with Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, the legislative leaders and all the mayoral candidates.
In a time of trial and tragedy, it will be hard for the city to get used to the fact that the economic boom of the last several years is now gone. In fact, it was gone even before the attacks on the World Trade Center. Deferring the task of dealing with the coming emergency will only make that emergency worse. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); TERRORISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (68%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (68%); SUBURBS (50%); RETAIL SALES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



61 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 248 words

HEADLINE: Marketing Campaign for Gold Miners 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: DENVER, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
AngloGold, Barrick Gold and other mining companies have proposed spending as much as $200 million a year on the industry's biggest marketing campaign ever, aimed at increasing bullion prices and demand for gold jewelry. 
 The campaign, to be initially financed with 30 cents from every ounce of gold produced, could increase annual gold demand as much as 13 percent, adding $12 billion to sales, based on estimates by consultants at McKinsey & Company. 
Gold prices that have lingered below $300 an ounce for four years could rise as much as $40, they said. 
 More advertising and promotion will eventually increase jewelry demand that probably will fall next year, before the United States emerges from a recession, mining executives said at a conference on gold in Denver. Jewelry accounts for 80 percent of gold use, and bullion prices have dropped 24 percent since 1996. 
"Why should we be deterred by short-term events," said Randall Oliphant, chief executive of Barrick, the fourth-largest gold producer. "Now is the time to do our homework. And we all believe the world will come back and that all recessions end." 
So far, companies that account for about 70 percent of world production are backing the campaign. Along with South Africa's AngloGold, the largest producer, proponents of the plan include Kinross Gold of Toronto; Randgold Resources of Jersey, the Channel Islands; Sons of Gwalia of Perth, Australia; and Gympie Gold of Sydney. AngloGold is a unit of Anglo American. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (91%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); JEWELRY (90%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); FINE JEWELRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%) METALS, MINERALS AND MINING; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (92%); ANGLOGOLD ASHANTI LTD (92%); RANDGOLD RESOURCES LTD (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BARRICK GOLD CORP (ABX); ANGLOGOLD LTD (AGOLY) 

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (92%); ABX (NYSE) (92%); AU (NYSE) (92%); AGG (ASX) (92%); AGD (LSE) (92%); RRS (LSE) (54%); GOLD (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (73%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (50%) WESTERN AUSTRALIA, AUSTRALIA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (51%); CANADA (50%); CHANNEL ISLANDS (50%); JERSEY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



62 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1048 words

HEADLINE: Business Travel; 
As travel beginsto pick up again, the airlines are using new strategies, and prices, to sell tickets.

BYLINE:  By Joe Sharkey; The Business Travel column appears each Wednesday. E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS air travel slowly picks up again, the major airlines are busy promoting lower business-travel fares, tweaking advance-purchase and minimum-stay restrictions, and devising new ways to sell tickets on the Internet and through targeted e-mail promotions to regular customers. 
 On Monday night, United Airlines announced what it called "new fare options" that included reductions of 50 percent off regular walk-up business fares for 21-day advance purchases and 25 percent off for 10-day advance purchases. 
 This prompted the other major airlines yesterday to say they had matched United's offerings -- but also promoted several to note that even before United's announcement they already had in place business fares that, according to a Delta Air Lines spokesman, Tom Donahue, are "at least as low as, or lower than, the fares United introduced" with great fanfare Monday night.
What's going on here, travel industry analysts said, may represent a significant and perhaps lasting change in the ways air-fare sales are promoted, as airlines struggle to get more higher-paying business fliers back on their planes quickly. 
In the past, fare sales were typically announced in national advertisements in which the airlines often exactly matched one another on prices and terms. Now, as economically distressed airlines frantically adjust schedules, crews and equipment to try to raise the most cash possible from each mile flown, new fares and more creative advance-purchase and frequent-flier promotions are being tailored to specific market segments and often promoted directly to customers through the Internet. 
"There's a lot of activity going on today; some of it's new, and some is not new," Steve Shook, a vice president of the travel management company Carlson Wagonlit, said yesterday of the fare announcements. 
For more than a month, analysts said, major airlines have been offering sharply lower fares on some popular routes, while recalculating advance-purchase and Saturday-night-stay restrictions to gain competitive advantages, market by market and route by route. 
In recent weeks, Southwest Airlines, National Airlines and other smaller regional carriers began aggressively promoting even sharper fare cuts, in some cases by extending fare sales that were already under way before Sept. 11.
Now, with business travel stirring once more, the major carriers appear to have jumped into that game with both feet. 
United's announcement Monday of across-the-board cuts of up to 50 percent in business fares -- and the dropping of the hated Saturday-night-stay requirement on those fares -- re-ignited the air-fare activity and confusion.
American Airlines, Continental Airlines and US Airways all said yesterday that they had matched United's fares nationally. American, Delta, Northwest Airlines and others also had new promotions offering frequent-flier and other bonuses on their Web sites yesterday. Delta also said yesterday that it was beginning a promotion on its Web site and on radio stations that included 10,000 free tickets to New York City as part of a "Delta Loves NY" campaign.
Meanwhile, like Delta, Northwest said that it already had comparable or better fares in place than the ones United announced Monday. 
In February 2000, Northwest introduced a fare package called Bizflex that was "a halfway point between the traditional unrestricted highest business fares and the leisure fares with all the restrictions," said Kurt Ebenhoch, a Northwest spokesman. Those fares -- which have no expiration dates -- started out at a maximum 40 percent discount; the maximum discount is now 50 percent, with a shorter advance-purchase requirement, Mr. Ebenhoch said. 
"We've been offering either lower or less restricted fares for a year and a half," he added.
People in the industry agreed that the earlier Northwest fares were comparable to United's, but said that Northwest's were less comprehensive. Mr. Ebenhoch said that Northwest now matched all of the new United fares.
Whatever the quibbling over who got there first, however, the new fare activity is seen as a clear sign that the airlines, each of whom has amassed rich databases of marketing information for frequent fliers, have begun to look to the Internet as a way to calibrate fares and special offers with unparalleled precision.
"Previously we had to have a sweeping fare release that was based on a market or a season or an entire schedule," Mr. Ebenhoch said. "Now we're able to pinpoint not only specific markets but specific flights within specific markets."
Mr. Shook, at Carlson Wagonlit, said that there was a "changing dynamic" in airline sale promotions, with "a lot of marketing going on at the Web sites."
During past events that have severely disrupted travel, like the 1991 Persian Gulf war, "the Internet wasn't available as part of a supplier's recovery strategy," said Suzi LeVine, the director of product marketing at Expedia Inc.
"For the first time with the Internet, quick distribution channels exist for suppliers," she said. "In the past, an airline or a hotelier or a car rental agency would have to fire up a whole new ad campaign, put it through to the media, send it out to the travel agents. Now, with the Internet, we're able to right away use our e-mail communications to let people know very quickly about things that are going on."
Mr. Donahue, the Delta spokesman, added, "These fare sales are coming fast and furious."
Now that the federal government has backed off the prohibition against curbside check-in at many airlines, some airport officials would like to see a rethinking of security-screening rules.
"We've asked the F.A.A. for a little flexibility," said Jerry Orr, aviation director of the Charlotte/Douglas International Airport in Charlotte, N.C., where, as at many airports, restaurants and shops are within the secure zone. 
He added: "We said we saw no security problem in allowing people without tickets through checkpoints. To the contrary, adding an additional level of decision-making at the checkpoint causes more confusion and opportunity for something to fall through the cracks, rather than if you just screened everybody that presented themselves. In any security process you don't want to create crowds; you want to get people dispersed as much as you can." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AIR FARES (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (77%); TRAVEL AGENTS (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); EMAIL MARKETING (72%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%); CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); NORTHWEST AIRLINES INC (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (52%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); LUV (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (58%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (57%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



63 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Banks' Rates Giving Savers Little to Cheer 

BYLINE:  By RIVA D. ATLAS 

 BODY:
As miserable as returns have been on stocks, investors who seek out the most conservative investments -- money market accounts and certificates of deposit -- have also suffered this year as the rates paid on these savings have dwindled.
 The rate on the average one-year C.D. has fallen to 2.94 percent from 5.33 percent at the start of the year, according to Bankrate.com, a Web site that tracks savings products. It is the lowest since that group began collecting data on rates in 1984. 
 The decline in money market yields is less severe but also steep, falling from 2.11 percent to 1.55 percent. These rates are based on a survey before Federal Reserve policy makers cut short-term rates yesterday for the ninth time this year, pushing them down in total by four percentage points, to a 39-year low. 
The shrinking returns on deposits are especially hard on people who depend on interest income for living expenses, like retirees. Consumers say they have been shopping around, trying to get the best deals possible. But banks have complicated that task, often forcing customers to wade through a menu of different C.D. and money market rates, which can vary depending on factors like the size of your bank balance, where you live and how much other business you do with your bank.
It used to be that there was one regular rate for C.D.s, and then a jumbo C.D. rate, meant to reward customers who committed to locking up large amounts, typically as much as $100,000. Today, many banks offer several rates for the same product. 
Elena Wells, a retired supervisor for New England Telephone living in Medford, Mass., is one of many people getting sticker shock from falling rates. Ms. Wells, who keeps a fair amount of her money in C.D.s or money market savings accounts, was intrigued when a bank representative said in July that she could renew a C.D. at an attractive 4.9 percent rate for one year. There was just one catch: the rate was available only if she opened a $500 checking account at the bank, Houston-based Encore Bank. She complied, she said, when the bank said she did not have to keep a minimum balance.
"We have come up with attractive specials from time to time, in exchange for getting people to do more business with us," said James S. D'Agostino Jr., chief executive of Encore. "For people living on a fixed income, every quarter of a percent helps."
Some consumers also find that the rate they get depends on where they live. "Pricing does vary quite a bit based on geography," said Gordon J. Goetzmann, a senior vice president with the First Manhattan Consulting Group, which analyzes the banking industry. 
This past summer, Wells Fargo customers in Los Angeles were getting just 1.5 percent interest on a money market account requiring a $10,000 minimum deposit, even as the bank was paying twice that in Phoenix, according to Bankrate.com. Recently, that gap has shrunk: as of Sept. 26, the rate in Los Angeles was 1.24 percent, compared with 1.01 percent in Phoenix, according to Bankrate.com.
"Pricing can vary, depending on how competitive a market is," said Leslie L. Altick, head of consumer deposits at Wells Fargo. Still, she said, "local bankers do have discretion to offer higher rates to customers who have been with us a long time." Chase Manhattan, for example, will sometimes offer different rates, depending on whether you have a traditional savings or a premium savings account. Consumers can also purchase a C.D. on the Internet or by phone, through the division of the bank that issues credit cards. 
And recently, Chase had several special offers. In August, Chase customers on Long Island could purchase a tax-deferred C.D. paying 3.65 percent if they were willing to tie up $5,000. Chase is eager to attract customers in the area, thanks to its attractive demographics.
"The idea is to identify who your best customer is and give them the best service," said Beth Hirschhorn, a senior vice president in the retail marketing division at Chase.
Banks in general are willing to pay a little extra to win the long-term loyalty of good customers. While the short-term rates at which banks borrow from the government fell 1.26 percentage points in the second quarter, bank deposit rates fell only 0.65 of a point, according to research by Susan Roth, an analyst at Credit Suisse First Boston. The difference, she said, reflects banks' efforts to compete with brokerage firms and other financial services companies.
Chase and Citigroup say that for some time they have been offering various rate tiers that favor their better customers. But the practice is clearly growing. In January, Bank of America began promoting a money market brokerage account to customers with balances over $100,000 or those who had at least one other business relationship, like a car loan or mortgage, with Bank of America. 
The bank raised the rate on the account to make it more competitive with the average money market mutual fund. Partly because of the promotion, Bank of America's average deposits increased by 3 percent in the second quarter, with money market savings account balances rising 19 percent.
The rate that Bank of America is offering on the account, now 2.99 percent, is nearly double the 1 percent rate offered to a customer with less than $2,500 on deposit. But Bank of America executives say the bank is not shirking smaller customers.
"We think we offer competitive products in every pricing tier," said Barbara DeSoer, who is in charge of the marketing and consumer products divisions.
The good news is that consumers are no longer at the mercy of the rates offered by their local banks. "The biggest change from 10 years ago is the Internet," said Carlos Figueroa, who runs C.D. Desk, a brokerage firm specializing in selling C.D.s to institutional investors. "Consumers are now better informed, and that makes the market much more competitive."
Thanks to Web sites that track rates offered on savings products, like Bankrate.com, it is easier to figure out what your bank is paying at the branch down the block or out of state. 
Some of the best offers come from Internet-only banks, which do not have branches and aim to keep their own costs low.
"For me, my loyalties are not to any one bank," said Ian Gordon-Brown, a foreign exchange currency trader who recently shifted most of his assets to C.D.s offered by IndyMac Bank, a California institution that operates primarily by Internet and phone. "If I can get a half a percentage point higher at another bank, I will put my money there."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Less for the Money"Interest rates on 5-year and 1-year certificates of deposit are at their lowest levels since Bankrate.com began collecting data in 1984. Chart tracks weekly rates for 1-year and 5-year C.D.'s from 1984 through 2001.(Source: Bankrate.com)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (91%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STATISTICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%) BANKS AND BANKING; CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; SAVINGS ACCOUNTS 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); FIRST MANHATTAN CONSULTING GROUP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BANKRATE.COM 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%)

PERSON: ATLAS, RIVA D 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (66%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); TEXAS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



64 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: What Energy Shortage?; 
Falling DemandTurns the Oil Patch Upside Down

BYLINE:  By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr. 

DATELINE: HOUSTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Business was in overdrive at the Apache Corporation earlier this year. Apache, one of the largest independent natural gas and oil companies in the United States, committed to spend close to $900 million this year to find and develop energy resources in North America.
 But now, in the wake of a recent sharp drop in demand for oil and gas -- a decline that is likely to accelerate after the terrorist attacks undermined an already weak economy -- the company is sharply scaling back. Apache reckons it may spend only $300 million for exploration and development in North America next year. 
 "We could do next year what we did this year, but I think we'd be brain dead if we did," said Raymond Plank, Apache's chairman and chief executive. 
Just five months ago, homeowners in California and elsewhere were shocked by the soaring price of electricity and natural gas. The White House warned of a looming energy crisis and called for expanded drilling for oil and gas, even in wildlife reserves, and the construction of one new electricity plant each week for the next 20 years.
Now energy demand and prices have tumbled. Nowhere is that more evident than in what used to be called the nation's "oil patch" and now more accurately the "energy patch." In Texas, Oklahoma and elsewhere, drilling activity is plunging as a shrinking economy, milder weather and competition from other fuels throttle demand for natural gas, causing prices to drop as quickly as they shot up last year.
The decline in spending on exploration and development has many experts worried that the United States will face another supply squeeze when economic growth -- and gas demand -- returns.
Oil prices have also fallen, for some of the same reasons that natural gas prices have tanked. But increasingly, natural gas is more important than oil to the Southwestern "oil patch." While major oil companies invest in large oil projects in West Africa and other sites abroad, the emphasis at home has shifted. In the 1980's, two out of three drilling rigs operating in the United States were drilling for oil; today four out of five are drilling for natural gas.
By and large, natural gas is a continental market -- almost all the gas consumed in North America is produced here -- and there is no OPEC to curtail production when prices drop.
Major oil companies invest long-term to drill in big deepwater oil fields or remote areas like Kazakhstan, where many can make a profit as long as oil costs more than $15 a barrel. (It closed in New York today at $22.79 a barrel.) But much of the gas in the United States and Canada is produced from shallow wells that cost less to sink, so investment is more speculative -- and drillers are quicker to shut them down when prices fall.
That is what is happening now. Across North America, upstream capital spending on natural gas and oil is roughly expected to fall 25 to 40 percent next year, said Art Smith, chief executive of John S. Herold Inc., an energy research and consulting firm in Norwalk, Conn. "Everyone is taking a more cautious view of things," he said.
While some in the industry may spend more in hopes that cold winter weather will cause prices to rebound, Mr. Plank said, "I don't think it behooves one to bet the farm on the weather."
Already, the number of natural gas rigs in the United States has dropped 11 percent from the peak three months ago, to 953, according to Baker Hughes Inc., an oil field services company based here.
Ken Hersh, managing partner of Natural Gas Partners, a $1 billion private equity fund in Dallas that invests in energy companies and properties, predicts the gas rig count could fall as low as 700 -- just enough to keep overall domestic gas production from declining, he said.
Other signs of a slowdown abound. At Global Marine Inc., one of the world's largest offshore drillers, the daily rates charged for 250-foot jackup gas drilling rigs in the Gulf of Mexico have dropped from a peak of $52,000 in May to the low-$20,000 range today.
"Every week it seems like four or five more rigs are being stacked," said Michael Dawson, a vice president at Global Marine, which is based here. He said he had expected the demand for gas, and prices, to rebound in the first quarter of next year, but that is now less likely after the terrorist attacks. "It's harder to say when the inflection point might be," he said.
What remains to be seen, according to many industry experts, is whether prices will whipsaw back up when the economy rebounds. While no one predicts a quick return to a price of $10 per thousand cubic feet -- the peak last winter -- many analysts said they thought demand could quickly outstrip production again in a year or two, increasing prices again.
Before last year, natural gas prices and drilling activity had slumped as warm winters, the Asian recession of 1997-98 and low oil prices made other fuels less expensive.
Gas prices rebounded sharply last year, spurring a modest increase in domestic production, but now that revival in drilling is beginning to slow. This year, production rose by about 500 million cubic feet a day, or just under 1 percent of daily consumption, estimates Ed Kelly, director of North American natural gas research for Cambridge Energy Research Associates. But next year it may increase only another 100 million cubic feet a day, he said. 
"The effect of this decline in drilling could become apparent in six or nine months, just as the economic rebound gets underway," Mr. Kelly said. He expects gas to fetch a little more than $2 per thousand cubic feet in the first half of next year, rising to about $3 by the end of 2002.
The slowdown in the economy and milder weather are also taking a toll on merchant electricity generators, another formerly high-flying industry that has slumped lately as power prices -- in California and elsewhere -- have dropped as demand fell. According to Friedman, Billings, Ramsey & Company, an investment bank in Arlington, Va., total domestic electricity output in the week of Sept. 21 was 2.5 percent lower than the same period last year.
Some analysts expect that what had been a headlong rush to build new power plants earlier this year could give way to a period of consolidation -- exemplified last week by Reliant Resources Inc.'s deal to buy Orion Power Holdings Inc. for $2.9 billion -- as shares of some large generators have fallen 40 percent to 60 percent in the last five months.
For the time being, soaring inventories of natural gas have eliminated any concern about supplies. With six weeks remaining for injections of gas into underground storage, the nation had 2.85 trillion cubic feet of gas in inventory on Sept. 21, or about 86 percent of storage capacity, according to the American Gas Association. That is 19 percent more than the same time last year.
But Mr. Hersh notes that prices for gas to be delivered in four or five years are still $3 or higher. While that is lower than what these "forward" prices were earlier this year, they remain about $1 more than the trading range of natural gas forward prices before the volatility of the last few years. "The market is saying, here's a new, sustainable price level that's 50 percent higher than the historical level," he said.
To Mr. Plank, low prices are not the only disincentive to investment in new drilling. Many producers, he said, continue to be scared off by wild price swings that can take the price of a thousand cubic feet of gas on a round trip from $2 to $10 and back to $2 all in the space of a few years. "With this price volatility," he said, "the industry just isn't able to attract sustained investment."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At a drilling rig in Fremont County, Wyoming, earlier this year, a Burlington Resources crew worked a gas field. (Jay Rusovich/Burlington Resources) Chart: "A Stunning Turnaround"The price of natural gas, after soaring nearly five-fold last year during the California energy crisis, has fallen back to its old levels. As a result, the recent gas drilling boom is slowing, and the amount of natural gas in storage, historically low at the beginning of this year, is now above average. Graph tracks weekly prices of natural gas per million B.T.U.'s from 1991 through 2001. Graph tracks drilling rig count for Gas rigs and Oil rigs from 1991 through 2001. Graph tracks gas inventories per trillion cubic feet including Total storagecapacity and Five-year average for 2001.(Sources: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Baker Hughes; American Gas Association)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (78%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); ENERGY DEMAND (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POWER PLANTS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (73%); CARTELS (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); WILDLIFE (67%); TERRORISM (56%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (56%); EXECUTIVES (54%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (52%) GAS (FUEL); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; INDUSTRY PROFILES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE 

COMPANY: APACHE CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN GAS ASSOCIATION (59%) APACHE CORP 

TICKER: APA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213111 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (96%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (96%); SIC1381 DRILLING OIL & GAS WELLS (96%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (96%) SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: OPPEL, RICHARD A JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); AFRICA (79%); CANADA (79%) TEXAS; OKLAHOMA

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



65 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Statement on Interest Rates 

 BODY:
Following is the text of a statement released by the Federal Reserve yesterday after the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's monetary policy panel, decided to lower interest rates:
 The Federal Open Market Committee decided today to lower its target for the federal funds rate by 50 basis points, to 2 1/2 percent. 
In a related action, the board of governors approved a 50-basis-point reduction in the discount rate, to 2 percent. 
 The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak. Business and household spending as a consequence are being further damped. Nonetheless, the long-term prospects for productivity growth and the economy remain favorable and should become evident once the unusual forces restraining demand abate. 
The committee continues to believe that against the background of its long-run goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the risks are weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate economic weakness in the foreseeable future. 
In taking the discount rate action, the Federal Reserve Board approved requests submitted by the boards of directors of the Federal Reserve Banks of Boston, New York, Cleveland, Richmond, Atlanta, St. Louis, Kansas City and San Francisco. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); MONETARY POLICY (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); APPROVALS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); TERRORISM (55%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (65%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



66 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Finacial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
Cheap Credit, Except for Those Who Need It Most

BYLINE:  By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve made it cheaper yesterday for some people and companies to borrow. But its efforts to stimulate the economy are being hampered by a plunge in consumer confidence and by financial markets that are hesitant to provide money to the companies that need it the most.
 "The Fed easing is not very effective at the moment, because there are powerful things working against the Fed," said Jan Hatzius, an economist at Goldman, Sachs. He pointed to a sharp drop in business investment and said it would probably continue. 
 The Fed's action cut the overnight rate on lending between banks, and was immediately followed by cuts in bank prime rates, which will in turn reduce the rates on some corporate and consumer loans, notably home equity lines of credit. That lowering of costs will save money that may be spent.
The cut was the second since the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon three weeks ago, but since then the effective rates for companies with lower-quality credit, so-called junk-bond rates, have risen as investors have grown more worried about an economic slump and a possible increase in corporate bankruptcies. Borrowing is cheaper for companies with good credit but not for others.
Similarly, in the last week, share prices of high-quality companies have recovered a good part of the losses recorded in the week after trading resumed following the attacks. Lower-quality companies have recovered much less and face greater problems if they try to sell stock.
Broadly speaking, companies raise capital for two reasons, because they need the money to pay bills or because they want to make investments that appear attractive. Markets are not eager to provide cash to those who need it the most, and the volume of investment spending has fallen sharply from peak levels because some industries, notably telecommunications and technology, have excess production capacity. That glut is not likely to ease soon, and it is probable that investment spending will follow, not create, an economic recovery.
Still, Wall Street reacted positively to the Fed's cut, and the Dow Jones industrial average closed up 113.76 points. "As my grandmother would have said, it couldn't hurt," said Paul L. Kasriel, the chief economist of Northern Trust in Chicago. "It's very likely this will, with a lag, stimulate borrowing and spending in the economy."
The economy was probably in recession before the attack, which has shocked companies into making layoffs that many had delayed and seems to have paralyzed consumers, at least temporarily. Just how long those factors will continue is far from clear.
"Planning horizons of everyone we talk to seem pitifully shortened in a manner wholly out of character for such a dynamic economy," said Robert V. DiClemente, an economist with Salomon Smith Barney.
When the shock begins to ease, assuming that there are no new shocks, lower interest rates are likely to have a greater effect.
Many on Wall Street expect that the federal funds rate, the rate at which banks lend to one another and which the Fed can control, has farther to fall. It is 2.5 percent, having been cut from 6.5 percent in the Fed's round of nine cuts. At least one more Fed move, to 2.25 percent, is anticipated this year, and some think the rate will be cut to 2 percent. Fiscal stimulus, through additional government spending or tax cuts, is also considered likely and is deemed desirable by many economists.
For much of the 1990's, consumer optimism played a crucial role in helping the economy weather shocks like the Russian debt default in 1998. Industrial production has now fallen for 11 consecutive months, but surprisingly strong consumer spending kept the economy growing, albeit at a very slow rate, before the attack.
Surveys indicated that consumer confidence was fading even before the attacks. The guess now is how far confidence will fall before it starts to rise, and when that rise might begin. It is not something that anyone is forecasting with confidence. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (70%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (67%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (58%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); NTRS (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



67 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Results at News Corporation To Miss ItsFinancial Goals 

BYLINE:  By SETH SCHIESEL

 BODY:
Joining the parade of financial woes stemming from the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the News Corporation of Australia said yesterday that it would badly miss its main financial goals for its fiscal year.
 Investors had largely expected such an announcement, and the company's American depository receipts rose 79 cents, to $25.68, yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange. 
 With the announcement, four of the top five "pure play" media companies have indicated since the attacks that they would miss their financial goals. The attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon dashed hopes that the advertising market would rebound soon, prompting not only the News Corporation but also AOL Time Warner, Disney and Viacom to warn that their results would suffer. All four companies derive at least 23 percent of their revenue from United States advertising. 
Of the five top media stocks, only shares of Vivendi Universal of France closed higher yesterday than they did on Sept. 10. Not surprisingly, Vivendi generates a far smaller part of its revenue from United States advertising -- only about 0.75 percent -- than the other four companies do.
"The tragic and senseless events of Sept. 11 exacerbated an already weakening advertising environment, not only in the U.S., but in the U.K. and Australia as well," Rupert Murdoch, the chairman of the News Corporation, said in a statement. "Our revised forecast assumes a continuing weak advertising environment for the rest of the calendar year balanced by stringent cost-cutting across all of our businesses and the addition of earnings from the newly acquired Chris-Craft stations."
The News Corporation acquired Chris-Craft Industries and its 10 local television stations in July for $4.4 billion.
In the fiscal year that ends next June, the News Corporation said it now expects to post operating income growth "in the high single-digit to low double-digit range." Previously, the company had predicted operating income growth of 15 percent to 25 percent. The company's Fox Entertainment Group subsidiary, which produces films and television programming, said that it expected growth of earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, or Ebitda, "in the low- to mid-teens." The previous forecast had been 31 percent to 37 percent growth.
Speaking at a Goldman, Sachs conference in Manhattan, Peter Chernin, the president of the News Corporation, said that almost all the shortfalls stemmed from the poor advertising climate. As television stations of all sorts went to all-news programming in the days after the attacks, they gave up at least $700 million in advertising, analysts said. Moreover, media companies with significant news operations are facing increased costs to cover the ensuing fight against terrorism.
With the collapse of the dot-com bubble and the general slowing of the economy, the advertising market was stagnant for most of the year even before the attacks. Though some experts had predicted that the advertising market would rebound in the late summer, some analysts say that did not happen.
If that is so, it appears that at least some of the big media companies would have missed their financial goals even if the attacks had not occurred. Indeed, the events of Sept. 11 are having significant direct financial effects on the media sector; Mel Karmazin, Viacom's president, said yesterday that his company would lose about $500 million in potential cash flow because of the attacks. Nonetheless, the attacks could shield companies that would have disappointed investors anyway.
"Yes, business was weak to begin with, though things were actually picking up before the Sept. 11 tragedy," said Jessica Reif Cohen, a media analyst at Merrill Lynch, who reduced her estimates for the News Corporation weeks ago. "Can some companies hide behind the Sept. 11 events? Certainly. But News Corp. and Fox are not one of those companies. One day the ad market will turn, and when it does, the companies that are the most leveraged will see the best growth."
But for now, it is not just the titans of the media world that are suffering. After the McGraw-Hill Companies warned on Monday that it would miss its financial goals, its shares dropped sharply yesterday, by $6.40, to $50.50, on the Big Board. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (91%); TERRORISM (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); EBITDA (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (76%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%) TERRORISM; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; AUSTRALIA 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (94%); VIVENDI (83%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%); AOL INC (70%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); VIACOM INC (56%); CHRIS-CRAFT INDUSTRIES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEWS CORP (NWS) 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (94%); NWS (ASX) (94%); VIV (PAR) (83%); VIV (BIT) (83%); AOL (NYSE) (70%); GS (NYSE) (58%); VIA (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (70%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%)

PERSON: PETER CHERNIN (58%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (77%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



68 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 67 words

HEADLINE: Stanley Works to Cut Jobs 

BYLINE:  AP

DATELINE: NEW BRITAIN, Conn., Oct. 2 

 BODY:
The Stanley Works will discontinue production of hardware in the United States, eliminating 65 jobs from its New Britain plant by the end of the year. 
 The hardware division, one of the company's three smallest, will transfer operations to the Stanley Works' four-year-old plant in Xiaolan, China, a spokesman said today. 
 The division manufactures hinges, gate hardware, latches and similar products. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (59%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; CONSTRUCTION AND BUILDING MATERIALS 

COMPANY: STANLEY BLACK & DECKER INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: STANLEY WORKS (SWK) 

TICKER: SWK (NYSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333991 POWER-DRIVEN HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS332216 SAW BLADE & HANDTOOL MANUFACTURING (91%) SIC3423 HAND & EDGE TOOLS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



69 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Fed Cuts Interest Rates; Talks Intensify on Recovery
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point, to 2.5 percent, the lowest level in 39 years, continuing its effort to pump some vigor back into an economy that has probably lapsed into recession.
 With each day bringing additional evidence that the yearlong deterioration in the economy has intensified since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, the White House and Congress also stepped up their efforts to settle on an economic recovery plan. Page A1. 

Incomplete Trades Affecting Bonds
In the aftermath of the attacks, the Treasury market is still faced with billions of dollars of incomplete trades that traders now say are creating some distortions in the market. C10.

News Corp. to Miss Its Estimates
Joining the parade of financial woes stemming from the terrorist attacks, the News Corporation said that it would miss its main financial goals for its fiscal year. Investors had largely expected such an announcement, and the company's American depository receipts rose 79 cents, to $25.68. Another big media company, Viacom, said that it would lose about $500 million in potential cash flow because of the attacks. C7.

Auto Sales Fall Less Than Expected
Auto sales slumped last month but were better than analysts expected. Still, they think demand will plunge further, leading to more production cuts, plant closings and layoffs. C10.

F.T.C. Shifts Web Privacy Efforts
The Federal Trade Commission will abandon efforts for new laws to enhance online privacy and will concentrate on enforcing existing laws, people close to the matter said. C5.

Stocks Rise on Rate Cut by Fed
Stocks rose after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates. The Dow Jones industrial average increased 113.76 points, or 1.3 percent, to 8,950.59. The Nasdaq composite index gained 11.87 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,492.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 12.78 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,051.33. C11.

Nortel to Cut Work Force by 20,000
Nortel Networks said that it was cutting 10,000 jobs and reducing its work force by 10,000 more jobs through the sale of businesses. C2.

Swissair Planes Stop Flying
Swissair stopped flying because it lacked cash to pay for jet fuel and landing fees and feared that its planes would be seized by creditors at foreign airports. A possible reprieve appeared when the Swiss banks UBS and Credit Suisse agreed to accelerate part of a restructuring plan. World Business, Section W.

How He Came to Love Stocks
Douglas M. Atkin, chief executive of the Instinet Group in New York, said when he was a junior in high school he became an assistant to a broker's assistant at a Merrill Lynch retail branch in Princeton, N.J., fetching coffee and answering phones. "From the moment I started that job, I fell in love with the stock market," he said. The Boss. C9.

F.A.A. to Let Private Craft Move
The Federal Aviation Administration announced plans to allow aircraft like business jets and helicopters to leave 204 airports, heliports and other sites where they have largely been grounded since Sept. 11. C10.

Welch Joins Leveraged Buyout Firm
John F. Welch Jr., the former chairman of General Electric, joined the leveraged buyout firm Clayton, Dubilier & Rice. C15.

Airlines Step Up Promotions
As air travel slowly picks up again, the major airlines are promoting lower business-travel fares, tweaking advance-purchase and minimum-stay rules and devising new ways to sell tickets online and through direct e-mail promotions. Joe Sharkey: Business Travel. C10.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price News Corp. shares for the week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,950.59 up 113.76Nasdaq composite -- 1,492.33 up 11.8710-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.51% down 0.02The euro -- $0.9186 up 0.0016The dollar -- 120.82 yen up 0.56

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); TERRORISM (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); AMERICAN DEPOSITARY RECEIPTS (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); CREDIT BUREAUS (75%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (75%); CASH FLOW (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (72%); LAYOFFS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); RETAIL SALES (71%); CLOSINGS (70%); INTERNET PRIVACY (64%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (64%); JET FUEL (50%); EXECUTIVES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (91%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (63%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); VIACOM INC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (71%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (91%); NWS (ASX) (91%); VIA (NASDAQ) (55%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (91%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (55%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



70 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: The Battery Is Down, All Right; 
Once Happily Isolated, an Area Is Now Badly Crippled

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
Living in Battery Park City today means having the National Guard's steely gaze upon you. It means not being able to have visitors drop in or have food or medications delivered without special permission. It means being cut off from the subway and having to walk two dozen blocks to Canal Street to hail a cab. 
 Living in Battery Park City means not being able to open your own front door without having your identity checked, sometimes as many as five or six times. It means living among trees still heavy with World Trade Center debris, a reminder of the tragedy, as if the smell of the smoldering site across West Street is not enough. 
 It also means hearing the deafening sounds of the recovery effort at close range, and needing to have your apartment "environmentally cleaned and assessed" before it is safe for living. 
"I moved back about a week ago, very optimistic, but it was so disturbing I just couldn't take it," said Craig Reider, a banker. "I made plans to put my wife and kids on a plane to California. The area is certainly not livable, even if it might be safe."
Battery Park City is facing the most extreme challenges of any residential area in the city since the Sept. 11 attack. The future of the 92-acre complex -- built, coincidentally, on a landfill of dirt excavated for the construction of the trade center -- had always seemed tethered to the towers, the neighborhood's major transportation connection to the rest of the city, and its cultural and commercial focal point. Never had that link been fully appreciated until it was severed.
Battery Park City, home to 9,000 residents, had never been known for an abundance of amenities. Now, what little there was is drastically diminished. One of the two large grocery stores, Gristede's, reopened Monday. There is no indication when the other, Sloan's, will be doing business again, it was so badly damaged.
These realities have left residents scurrying to SoHo and Chinatown for basic necessities. They are lonely and isolated in an area that, before the attacks, prized its seclusion. The proximity it enjoyed was to Lower Manhattan office space. Now many of those offices are gone.
Living in Battery Park City means not knowing when or if normalcy will ever return. Occupancy in some of the 20 residential buildings is as low as 31 percent.
"This is way more than an inconvenience, it's a major disaster," said Tom Goodkind, an accountant whose daughter Olivia, 5, broke down and began screaming when they returned to their neighborhood Sunday. The family left immediately.
"They say our apartments are a crime scene," Mr. Goodkind said. "Many people feel the area is a toxic dust bin, our issues are not being addressed and we don't know when or if our neighborhood will ever return."
The Environmental Protection Agency, which has set up at least 17 air monitoring stations in the neighborhood, has declared the air quality to be safe, but many residents remain wary.
Mr. Goodkind said he has slept in five places in the last seven nights with his wife and two little girls, who have been relocated to elementary schools outside of Battery Park City. The sheer expense of living without a home base is beginning to wear on the family, he said. "We are so out of pocket," said Mr. Goodkind, 47. "I can't say how many times I've dry-cleaned the same suit."
Residents were informed at a rancorous meeting Friday night that they would not be required to pay rent for the time spent evacuated from their apartments, and those evacuated from the most badly damaged buildings would get one month rent-free. The announcement drew a brief burst of applause. But will it entice many renters to stay?
"The biggest problem is that people saw some terrible things," said Donald Scherer, the president of the newly created Battery Park City Residents' Association. "It's a scary place and will be a scary place for a while."
At the meeting, many displaced residents screamed questions at representatives of the Battery Park City Authority, which leases land to developers, and at Jamie LeFrak of the LeFrak Corporation, a major landlord. They wanted to know about breaking leases.
"This is the biggest challenge our company has ever faced," Mr. LeFrak said.
He said the offer of a month's free rent was "to give people the opportunity to not have to make hasty decisions about their life and to give them a chance to come back without the stress and pressure of paying a rent bill."
As for breaking leases, he said, "We're handling it on a case by case basis."
Andrew V. Brisker, for one, wants to leave. A restaurant wine director who lives in Gateway Plaza, he said: "My apartment is completely trashed. That plus the mental trauma and having no place to find food, I have no desire to go back there. I can't live there. I just can't do it anymore."
To that end, he and other residents are organizing themselves and seeking legal advice. They plan soon to present their cases collectively to landlords and building managers.
Another Battery Park City resident, Karon Abe, has already found a new place to live on the Upper East Side, although it pained her to leave her favorite spot in the city.
"There are no services, no subways," said Ms. Abe, 32, a research scientist. "It's just depressing. People are really upset. Our building is open, but we chose not to go back." Ms. Abe's husband, Rhett Laurens, an investment adviser, called the area "logistically a nightmare."
It will take years for the No. 1 and 9 subway lines to be rebuilt, transit officials said. In the meantime, bus service is being expanded. On Monday, a bus shuttle service began running a loop around the northern part of Battery Park City.
"If they give us more streets to roll on we'll roll on them," said Al O'Leary, spokesman for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. "We are prepared once the N.Y.P.D., the F.B.I. and everybody else gives us the go-ahead."
When that will be is unclear.
Ms. Abe and Mr. Laurens could not wait indefinitely, they said, so they found a new home. Just last month, they had decided that there was no better place to begin their married life than Battery Park City. Their love for it was instant, Ms. Abe said, "a neighborhood with a personality so unexpected, it was almost like you weren't in New York."
Some of their neighbors, however, considered it the epitome of New York, with its sweeping view of the harbor and the Statue of Liberty, its closeness to the World Trade Center, its parks teeming with soccer players and sunbathers.
Diane Crupain's bedroom window framed the twin towers. "Battery Park City was our happy little haven, safe and landscaped," she said. "You could have the sunsets all to yourself on the water. We thought it was perfect."
That serenity has been shattered, at least for now.
"In the long term, it will come back," said Representative Jerrold Nadler, who represents the area in Congress. He said a task force of local elected officials had already put mobile health vans on the street, organized shuttles to grocery stores, and worked to deliver a consistent stream of information to residents.
Since its development in the late 1960's and 1970's, Battery Park City had become popular with young families, single men and women working in the financial district, and people who wanted to live in Lower Manhattan but feel as if they were somewhere else. Its modern residential buildings, copper-topped office towers and pristine riverfront parks made the area some of the most valuable real estate in the city. 
"I think it's a little early to be able to predict the long term beyond maybe a year, but I think the area will be back and stronger," said Timothy S. Carey, president and chief executive of the Battery Park City Authority.
Mr. Carey said he is speaking with all levels of government officials to make sure that Battery Park City has a large share of whatever economic stimulus package is planned for Lower Manhattan. 
Construction continues on the Ritz Carlton Hotel and residences, and will soon resume on two other sites: another tower, and a memorial to victims of the Irish potato famine, Mr. Carey said. 
Fast action is crucial, Mr. Scherer says. "The key is to give people information so they can plan for the future," he said. 
The residents' association's main complaint has been a lack of information from city officials about when buildings, roads and schools will reopen.
"If things are uncertain, people are going to leave," Mr. Scherer said. "If they leave, then the businesses close. If the businesses close, then more people will leave.
"It's a downward spiral," he said, "and that's how neighborhoods die."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A security guard checked Priya Madan's identification yesterday before allowing her into her apartment. Residents have complained about a lack of information. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times); Vincent Lopreto in his apartment at 400 Chambers Street recently. "I paid for a view, now I can't open my blinds," he said. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. D1); A representative of the LeFrak Corporation, right, tried to answer residents' questions at a meeting Friday. (Kelly Guenther for The New York Times)(pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY LIFE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); LANDFILLS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



71 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE FINANCIAL DISTRICT; 
Signs Differ For Future Of Business

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
Sifting through the wreckage in Lower Manhattan for clues about the future, city officials, urban planners and real estate brokers are finding plenty of seemingly conflicting signs.
 Lehman Brothers, a major presence before the terrorist attack on the trade center, signed a lease last weekend for office space at 399 Park Avenue in Midtown and is sending hundreds of employees to new quarters in Jersey City. Although Lehman is also negotiating to take over a building downtown at 180 Water Street, many fear that the decisions by Lehman and other banks to sign long-term leases outside the neighborhood suggest a diminished financial presence in Lower Manhattan. 
 But last week, the New York Life Insurance Company provided a $68 million mortgage for a newly completed 27-story apartment house in Battery Park City, where workers and residents are still clearing away dust and debris from the trade center attack. Because the deal comes so soon after the attack, landlords regard it as a vote of confidence in Lower Manhattan. 
Both of these events provide a glimpse of Lower Manhattan's future, said Hugh O'Neil, president of Appleseed, an economic development consultant.
Investment banks and insurance companies have been migrating for decades to Midtown from the traditional financial district centered around Wall Street. And in recent years, Merrill Lynch, Paine Webber, Goldman Sachs, U.S. Trust, Cigna and others have moved some operations to the New Jersey waterfront as rents soared in Manhattan.
Those trends are bound to continue, Mr. O'Neil said, as displaced companies make decisions about where to situate employees
Mr. O'Neil, some landlords and many urban planners said that the city should continue to encourage the trend and do whatever it can to keep the financial services companies at least in Manhattan, if not downtown. Certainly the New York Stock Exchange, Nasdaq, the American Stock Exchange and the Depository Trust are staying put.
In the mid- to late-1990's, developers built about 7,000 apartments in old office buildings downtown and built hundreds of others at Battery Park City, and restaurants, museums and stores began to spring up. The Alliance for Downtown New York, the business improvement district for 14,000 companies in the area, promoted the ideas of a 24-hour community and tourism, even as it struggled successfully to keep the New York Stock Exchange on Wall Street.
Carl Weisbrod, president of the Alliance, emphasized the need to keep the financial core.
"In rebuilding Lower Manhattan it's important to provide the short-term financial incentives and space for financial companies to remain and grow so that the mutual dependence between business and residences can be maintained and strengthened," he said.
Frank J. Ollari, senior managing director of New York Life Investment Management, said he was confident in the future of residential development downtown.
"The building had been virtually fully leased before the attack," Mr. Ollari said. "We expect some of the tenants will not return, but others will take their place."
H. Henry Elghanyan of Rockrose said: "Some of those who moved to New Jersey are probably not going to come back. But there'll be others to replace them. New York is not going into a tailspin."
The Bank of New York has leased space at more than a dozen buildings in Midtown. Merrill Lynch, which had two buildings at the World Financial Center, has moved thousands of employees to Jersey City, Hopewell Junction and other places in New Jersey where the company had vacant space that it expected to rent to others. American Express, which was also at the World Financial Center, has leased office space in New Jersey and in Stamford, Conn.
After the attack, real estate executives estimated that 30 million square feet of downtown office space had been destroyed or seriously damaged. But it now appears that at least some of the damaged buildings will reopen sooner than expected. Brookfield Financial Properties is replacing 650 panes of glass in its tower at 1 Liberty Plaza and expects to be open in three weeks.
Richard Clark, president of Brookfield, hopes to have the tower at 1 World Financial Center ready in about seven weeks. There was no damage at 4 World Financial Center, which is leased by Merrill Lynch.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday: "We're making progress in getting some of those buildings open that are in the World Financial Center. Merrill Lynch, for example, now has a schedule date of being open by Oct. 22. The other buildings that are there will take longer, more in the 10, 12-week category." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CITIES (78%); INSURANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); TERRORISM (77%); DEPOSITORY SERVICES (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (74%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LIFE INSURANCE (69%); RESTAURANTS (61%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE CO (83%); CIGNA CORP (55%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%); NYSE MKT LLC (53%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CI (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (83%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (55%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



72 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 722 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings; 
An Injured City

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Will the terror attack permanently damage New York's position as America's economic capital? No sentimentality, please, despite the mock headline in The Onion, "Rest of Country Temporarily Feels Deep Affection for New York." This is a real question and deserves a serious answer. 
 The reason it's a real question is that the economy of a city is different from that of the nation as a whole. Not only are America's resources -- above all the energy and skill of its work force -- almost entirely intact; they aren't going anywhere. We may go through a recession, during which some of those resources will temporarily be idled; but there is no question that the U.S. economy will eventually put its resources back to work. 
 But the resources of New York don't have to stay where they are. And it's conceivable that they won't.
 After all, America's pre-eminent city owes its position to historical accident. The natural advantages of New York -- its fine harbor, its location at the terminus of the only possible canal route to the Great Lakes -- were real enough during the city's rise. But those natural advantages have long since ceased to be important to the city's economy. What keeps New York a great city is circular causation; people and businesses locate there because of the opportunities created by the presence of other people and businesses.
 And because the city's economy is sustained by circular causation, a sufficiently large blow to that economy could in theory do permanent damage. If enough businesses and people leave, for whatever reason, the local economy could fall below critical mass and enter a downward spiral in which businesses leave because other businesses are leaving. 
The beneficiaries of such an exodus would probably not be other great cities; instead, businesses would move out into the endless sprawl. I was not the only person in suburban New Jersey who, somewhat to my shame, felt perfectly safe on Sept. 11: there are millions of people living and working nearby, but no obvious targets, because there's no there here.
 The question is, how large a blow would be needed to start such a spiral? How robust are cities, anyway?
 A researcher with vast power and few scruples could try to answer that question experimentally; he could destroy large sections of a city, then see if it recovered. (Maybe that's what Robert Moses was up to!) But in real life people wouldn't perform such an experiment -- or would they? 
Two economists at Columbia University, Donald Davis and David Weinstein, recently pointed out that America actually has tried that experiment -- on someone else's cities. Their paper, the product of many months of work, arrived with spooky timing. Titled "Bones, bombs, and break points: The geography of economic activity," it points out that the U.S. bombing campaign against Japan in the closing months of World War II constituted a sort of gruesome natural experiment testing the robustness of cities. 
 The important point for their analysis is not just that the bombing campaign was immensely destructive -- 56 square miles of Tokyo were entirely leveled, which as a proportion of the built-up area was only average for Japanese cities -- but that it was highly variable in its impact. Some cities escaped with only minor damage, while others were largely destroyed. The question they ask is whether the heavily damaged cities recovered to their prewar place in Japan's urban hierarchy, or whether they entered into a downward spiral.
 Their answer is slightly discouraging for economists who would like to verify theories about circular causation, but very encouraging for those who believe that New York's special, intense urbanism yields benefits to the nation that go beyond dollars and cents. Even in postwar Japan there were no downward spirals, and cities quickly returned to their original positions in the urban hierarchy. "Even large temporary shocks to urban areas," declare the authors, "have no long-run impact on city sizes." It seems cities are very robust indeed. 
 That doesn't mean that New York's future is assured -- while cities are very persistent, they do rise and fall over time. But if the Japanese parallel is at all relevant, the attack on New York, for all its horror, will have no effect worth mentioning on the city's long-run economic prospects. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



73 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Liberties; 
All That Glistens

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The shiny red and silver Neiman Marcus Christmas catalog just arrived.
 It makes you a little sick and a little wistful. Even though it was printed only a month ago, it now seems as detached from the moment as cave drawings, a document of an extinct culture that reveled without apology in the trivial and gaudy, pushing luxury to absurd heights. 
 A simple hanger could not suffice when there was a $65 mink hanger "too beautiful to tuck away in a closet." 
A simple jean jacket could not suffice when there was a $2,785 jean jacket with rabbit collar and cuffs.
A simple baby carriage could not suffice when there was a $4,250 Burberry pram with matching $375 diaper bag. 
Simple black stockings could not suffice when there was a $500 pair with cultured fresh-water pearls hand-beaded on the lace border. (And when they run, do you salvage the pearls for an anklet?)
The only camouflage we were concerned with back then was designer camouflage cargo pants and lingerie, offering a frisson of danger to lives that were smugly unthreatened.
And there's Neiman's famous big-ticket fantasy item: your own $6.7 million Bell helicopter to fly you to black-tie parties. (Remember when flying wasn't terrifying?)
America has developed an aversion to consumer overindulgence at the very moment our leaders tell us the only way to prevail against the terrorists and prop up our economy is through consumer overindulgence.
Who could have predicted that the first war of the 21st century would be about stuff?
Past wars were fought to expand empires. But the new invaders want to explode our empire.
The puritanical Islamic warriors hate our stuff and think us decadent hedonist infidels who have lost our souls. "The Americans are fighting so they can live and enjoy the material things in this life," a Taliban spokesman said. "But we are fighting so we can die in the cause of Allah." 
As Mullah Muhammad Omar, the Taliban leader, once said: "Life can be led with just a few basics. The luxuries don't matter."
The terrorists don't want our stuff -- they lived among us and resisted being seduced by it. They don't want us to have our stuff. And they don't want our stuff to taint their holy lands; they want to banish our planes and equipment and MTV culture from the Persian Gulf.
America is still stunned that our sophisticated stuff could not protect us, that our trillion dollars' worth of weapons, radars and satellites all fell flat against a few brutes with box cutters. 
And now we are battling a bunch of atavistic ascetics who hate TV, music, movies, the Internet (except when they're planning atrocities), women and Jews, who live in caves in a country smaller than Texas with a gross domestic product smaller than Bill Gates's.
Up until the moment the twin towers fell, America was deep in a cocoon of self-gratification and self-improvement. We were on a giddy odyssey of self-actualization, epitomized by the headlines in Oprah's magazine: "Feel Good Naked: A fabulous 10-point plan, no diet required." 
Now we have to view our solipsism and wretched excess through the prism of the "epic wretchedness" of the Afghan people, as The Times's Barry Bearak called it. It's somewhat embarrassing that we didn't look outward sooner, that foreign wars got less TV air time than the war against wrinkles.
But our culture turns out to be about much more than its glittery surface, and that's been clear in all that's happened since Sept. 11: the exposure to the quiet lives of inspiration that so many victims led; the valor of rescue workers; the altruistic derring-do of the men who fought back on Flight 93; our concern about inflicting unnecessary suffering on innocent Afghans; the generosity and civic tolerance at the heart of our country's response to horrific loss.
With their oxymoronic holy war, Osama bin Laden and his murderous disciples meant to expose our moral vacuity. But they exposed only their own. 
They simply succeeded in illuminating -- not just to the rest of the world but to us -- how little all our baubles and all our booty have to do with who we really are.
The terrorists taught us this: We are more than the sum of our stuff. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (86%); CHRISTMAS (78%); MAMMALS (77%); LINGERIE (74%); PEARLS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); RELIGION (68%); HELICOPTERS (66%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%); MUSIC (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (51%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



74 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1458 words

HEADLINE: From Taiwan, a Fear of China Technology 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: HSINCHU, Taiwan 

 BODY:
Morris Chang was born in China, but unlike some Chinese emigres, he feels little desire to return.
 "There's a big gap between what I'm used to and what China has become," Mr. Chang said in an interview at his company, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, which sits at the heart of a vast science park here, about 40 miles south of Taipei, the capital. 
 In addition to being a longtime China skeptic, Mr. Chang, 70, is arguably the most influential technology executive in Taiwan. He has often spoken of his belief that China, despite becoming a hotbed of computer manufacturing, was not ready to compete in the more advanced business of integrated circuits. 
So when he declared recently that the future of the world's chip industry lies not in Taiwan or the United States, but in China, political and business leaders sat up and took notice.
Mr. Chang's conversion was well timed. On Sept. 17, China cleared the last hurdle in its 15-year quest to enter the World Trade Organization or its predecessor, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
The next day, Taiwan also received formal clearance to join the W.T.O., the club of trading nations. Experts say this will accelerate China's emergence as a technology power. It will also deepen the commercial ties between the mainland and Taiwan.
Mr. Chang's change of heart is the latest sign of how deeply China's economic rise is roiling its cousin across the Taiwan Strait. What started in the 1980's as a trickle of companies moving to the mainland has become a torrent as the initial wave of small-time garment and footwear makers eager to tap China's cheap labor spreads to Taiwan's biggest and most advanced companies.
For years Mr. Chang, the founder and chairman of Taiwan Semiconductor, was not impressed by all the talk of a new economic giant in the East. He says he believed -- based on a career at Texas Instruments, and 16 years in Taiwan helping to build its technology industry -- that China was not yet ready to succeed in silicon.
But that was before Shanghai became home to two chip ventures started by Taiwan entrepreneurs. One of those, Semiconductor Manufacturing International, is run by a former rival, Richard Chang, who sold his Taiwan operations to Taiwan Semiconductor last year. Richard Chang, who is not related to Morris, has since lured away 50 of Taiwan Semiconductor's engineers.
"I thought it would be very tough for these ventures to succeed," Morris Chang said between long pulls on his pipe. "But then our engineers started going over to them. That changed my thinking."
Now, Mr. Chang is rushing to establish a liaison office for Taiwan Semiconductor in Shanghai. He says his company, the world's largest contract manufacturer of chips, is likely to build plants on the mainland.
Even Taiwan's government, which has tried to stem the exodus with strict limits on the amount of money that local companies can invest in China, now recognizes that its commercial future is tied to China's.
"We see the need for Taiwanese firms to expand into China," said Tsai Ing-wen, the head of the government's Mainland Affairs Council. "A lot of people say Taiwan has to open up -- otherwise its economy will suffer. There is a need to establish momentum."
A few weeks ago, Taiwan's president, Chen Shui-bian, accepted the recommendation of a government-business commission to scrap a $50 million limit on investments in China by Taiwan companies. The decision ends a policy known as "go slow, be patient," adopted by Mr. Chen's predecessor, Lee Teng-hui, who viewed the flow of capital to China as a threat to Taiwan's security.
In some ways, the lifting of investment curbs is just a recognition of reality. Hundreds of smaller companies circumvent the $50 million limit by registering their China ventures outside Taiwan, in havens like the Cayman Islands. Larger companies in strategic industries, which found it harder to skirt the rules, had put intense pressure on President Chen to do away with them.
Business leaders are also pressing him to lift a ban on direct trade and transportation links with China. The 50-year-old ban forces Taiwan companies with operations on the mainland to route supplies through Hong Kong, as well as employees making trips from Taipei to Shanghai.
"We just cannot wait any longer for direct airline routes to mainland China," said Daniel Wu, the president of EVA Airways.
Ms. Tsai, however, said establishing direct links was a thornier issue than lifting investment curbs because it raised questions of sovereignty. Beijing has demanded that Taipei recognize the existence of a single China before the two can negotiate. President Chen, whose party formally espouses an independent Taiwan, has refused to accept the "one China" principle.
How long Mr. Chen can hold out is a matter of debate. Taiwan is in an economic crisis, which began earlier this year with the collapse of technology industries in the United States and has worsened with the recent attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
In August, Taiwan's export orders plunged 16.7 percent as its main customers in the United States cut back sharply. Unemployment figures for August are expected to surpass 5 percent, and years of economic growth, even during the Asian crisis of 1997-98, have evolved into the likelihood of a recession.
Taiwan Semiconductor, which a year ago was lamenting its inability to meet the surging demand for chips, typifies the reversal of fortunes. Operations at its factories, which had been running overtime late in 2000, tumbled in the second quarter of this year to 44 percent of capacity.
Mr. Chang said his company's monthly sales hit bottom in May and June and predicted that they would rebound next year. But analysts said the terrorist attacks, and the prospect of military retaliation, make any revival in 2002 uncertain.
Indeed, the specter of protracted economic weakness in the United States will add to the pressure on Taiwan companies to move to China, where the labor pool is larger and cheaper.
"Taiwanese chip companies have to manufacture in China to be globally competitive," said Su Chi, a former head of the Mainland Affairs Council who advises the now opposition Nationalist Party.
Few countries have China's combination of low-cost and plentiful workers at many levels of expertise. Taiwan's universities produce 4,000 engineers a year; China turns out 145,000. A trained engineer in Shanghai costs one-third to one-quarter that of one in Taipei, according to Credit Lyonnais.
In the past, Mr. Chang said China was handicapped by a lack of infrastructure. He said that China -- even with its platoons of engineers -- lacked the companies that produce the raw materials for silicon wafers and the skilled labor to build and run advanced chip factories.
Now, Mr. Chang says, China can easily surmount these weaknesses. He noted that the Beijing authorities were dangling rich incentives, like cheap land and tax breaks, to lure semiconductor producers from Taiwan and elsewhere. Chip ventures also enjoy powerful political support.
The most talked-about foray from Taiwan into China, Grace Semiconductor Manufacturing, is a joint venture of Winston Wang, the son of a powerful Taiwan industrialist, and Jiang Mianheng, son of China's president, Jiang Zemin. The two are building a $1.63 billion wafer factory outside Shanghai.
Mr. Chang, who prizes his place atop the corporate pyramid, seems rattled by the prospect of being left behind. "Even if Taiwan companies did not go to China, even if no other foreign companies were interested," he said, "they could always do it themselves. You can pick up the low-end expertise pretty easily."
There are still a few brakes on China's chip industry. Restrictions on the exporting of advanced technology from the United States mean that the latest technology -- etching chips on 12-inch wafers -- cannot be done in mainland Chinese factories. 
But that leaves many simpler memory and logic chips that can be produced there. And analysts think that with China about to enter the World Trade Organization, the export controls will eventually disappear.
This will make the global chip industry, which has fallen into recession roughly every five years since 1970, even more cutthroat.
Since the early 1980's, when Japanese companies aggressively entered the market for memory chips, Mr. Chang said, these boom-and-bust cycles have been precipitated by new competitors, like companies from South Korea and Taiwan, building factories. 
As painful as the current recession is, Mr. Chang said he worried even more about the next one, when China's factories will be churning out chips.
"They will be enormously disruptive in about five years," he said. "I wish they would go away, but they're not going away."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Morris Chang (David Hartung for The New York Times)(pg. C1); A technician at an advanced Taiwan Semiconductor plant with a box containing 12-inch silicon wafers. Because of U.S. export curbs, etching chips onto these wafers is one area where China is not a competitor. (David Hartung)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (91%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (87%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); FOOTWEAR MFG (72%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; COMPUTER CHIPS 

COMPANY: TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO LTD (58%); SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING INTERNATIONAL CORP (56%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (82%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (55%) TAIWAN SEMICONDUCTOR MANUFACTURING CO; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

TICKER: TSM (NYSE) (58%); TSFA (FRA) (58%); 2330 (TAIEX) (58%); SMI (NYSE) (56%); 0981 (HKSE) (56%); TXN (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (58%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (53%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; CHANG, MORRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%) EAST CHINA (90%) TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%) TAIWAN; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



75 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE SKIES; 
Debate on Air Security Fixes on Federal Role

BYLINE:  By LIZETTE ALVAREZ and MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
The White House and both houses of Congress struggled today to agree on legislation that would tighten aviation security, as divisions remained over whether the federal government would run the whole security effort or just supervise it.
 The legislation under negotiation would upgrade equipment, install bulletproof cockpit doors and employ well-trained, well-paid airport security screeners. The Senate version would make the screeners federal employees. But the House version would not, and companies that now screen passengers are lobbying to keep the work in their hands. 
 The plan also calls for expanding the number of air marshals and gradually increasing their presence on flights.
Like the legislation, airline industry recommendations, made on Monday by an aviation task force appointed by the transportation secretary soon after the hijackings of Sept. 11, called for better cockpit doors. But they also raised new security questions, including whether the people who have been searching empty jetliners for weapons daily since Sept. 11 are qualified to do so.
The task force laid out some quick remedies, among them the use of passwords to get through the cockpit door. It suggested that in any attempted takeover of an aircraft, flight attendants be left on their own, with no help from the pilots. The flight attendants would, however, have access to "nonlethal" weapons. 
At every level, the shape of air security seemed to be in flux today, three weeks after the hijackings. Congressional Democrats have led the push for full federal assumption of the security job. House Republicans say federal employees should oversee the work but not do it. Other open questions are how much the security effort will cost and how much passengers will be charged to pay for it.
Though lawmakers remained divided, Congress was under pressure to reach a deal, and officials said the White House appeared to be moving toward those advocating a greater degree of federal involvement.
Senators Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, said there was broad consensus in the Senate to nationalize security at all major airports, and argued that anything short of that would simply maintain the status quo. Mr. Hollings initially wanted to see security at all airports federalized but now says he is amenable to federalizing it only at the largest ones, a number somewhere between 140 and 200.
Smaller airports would have to comply with whatever stricter standards emerged from the new legislation but, with the help of federal financing, might be able to use local law enforcement agencies rather than federal workers to carry out the functions.
"The current situation is not acceptable," Mr. McCain said. "Let's see at least partial federalization."
But the executives of companies that now do the work came to Washington to argue that even if their past performance was poor, no one was ready to replace them. "We are going to be the trainers anyway," said Lior Zouker, president and chief executive of International Consultants on Targeted Security. "Let us train the right people." 
Along with competitors, Mr. Zouker asked that his company be hired by the federal government, not the airlines, and be brought up to higher standards of training and performance instead of being ordered by airlines to perform at minimal cost.
But advocates of federalization said making security a government function would also allow for a greater exchange of information among federal agencies, a benefit that they said could help identify and stop terrorists.
Like ideas for security on the ground, plans for security aloft were hardly settled. The panel of aviation experts that reported to the transportation secretary on Monday crossed into some areas that no one seems to have a conclusive judgment about, among them whether a crew trying to foil hijackers should intentionally depressurize the plane in flight or perhaps put it into a dive.
"While we do not openly recommend it," the panel's report said, "we acknowledge that aircraft defensive maneuvering and aggressive use of cabin pressure systems may be beneficial under certain extreme situations."
But it said that "any proposals must be validated for effectiveness and trainability before implementation."
The report also recommended barring passengers from "loitering" near the forward galley and lavatory, typically adjacent to the cockpit door, and leaving open the curtains that hang between cabins, so cabin crews can see what is going on in the whole plane. Flight attendants would also stop serving beverages before takeoff, so they could concentrate on boarding the passengers. 
Putting a video camera in the cabin would be a good idea to keep the pilots informed, the panel found, but finding a place in the cockpit for the monitoring screen would be a challenge.
The security legislation, meanwhile, is becoming entangled with other concerns. Setting up a possible battle with Republicans, the Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said today that he wanted the bill to include a provision to help workers who have been laid off by the airlines and airplane manufacturers. The legislation would be aimed at those workers ineligible for unemployment or extended insurance coverage.
"It is our hope we can agree to that specific package," Mr. Daschle said.
The minority leader, Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, said he would be willing to consider a narrowly tailored package. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AVIATION SECURITY (91%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); TAKEOVERS (76%); HIJACKING (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



76 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-12

2 Israelis Die, 15 Are Hurt In Attack on Settlement
At least two Palestinian gunmen attacked an Israeli settlement at the northern edge of the Gaza Strip, killing a teenage couple and wounding 15 other people in the most violent assault on such a community in more than a decade. Two gunmen were killed by Israeli sharpshooters. The raid was clearly calculated to destroy the battered cease-fire between Israelis and Palestinians. A12

Russia-Iran Arms Deal
The Kremlin signed an accord that will let Iran buy jets, missiles and other weapons from Russia. And the atomic energy ministry said it planned to deliver the first of two nuclear reactors to Iran next month. The arms deal comes six years after Moscow stopped such sales to Iran under pressure from the United States, which regards Iran as a leading sponsor of terrorism. A12

Wider Net for Bosnian Serbs
The Bosnian Serb parliament adopted legislation requiring the police to arrest war crimes suspects and transfer them to the United Nations war crimes tribunal at The Hague. The move paves the way for the arrest of two notorious suspects in the region: Radovan Karadzic, the wartime leader, and Ratko Mladic, the former chief of the army. A8

U.S. Backing From Philippines
President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo said that as the leader of a country that has fought Islamic militants she was prepared to "go every step of the way" with the United States. She offered intelligence, logistical help, use of air space and -- alone among leaders in Asia -- combat troops, pending legislative approval. A5

Elections in Bangladesh
Khaleda Zia, left, who has sought for years to destabilize the government of her rival for power, Sheik Hasina, appeared headed for a huge upset victory in parliamentary elections. A8

Refugee Bureau Lacks a Chief
The State Department's refugee bureau, which is gearing up to handle an Afghan crisis, is still without a permanent leader, with nominations caught up in political maneuvering. A12

World Briefing A6

NATIONAL A14-18

Logan Airport Security To Change Hands
Acting Gov. Jane M. Swift of Massachusetts stripped responsibility for Logan airport's security from the public safety director for Massport, which runs the airport. The safety chief, Joseph M. Lawless, will direct security only for bridges and the port. Two of the four planes hijacked last month took off from Logan. A14

Battle Over Labor Nominee
Senators quarreled over the nomination of Eugene Scalia to be the No. 3 official at the Department of Labor. Democrats at his confirmation hearing assailed Mr. Scalia as hostile to workers; Republicans said he would not make policy on issues like ergonomics, which he has ridiculed. A14

Senior Senator Collapses
Senator Strom Thurmond, 98, fainted after a floor vote. The South Carolina Republican was conscious as he was taken to a hospital, where he remained for observation. A18

Ridge on Safety and Security
Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania, chosen by the White House to coordinate domestic defenses against terrorism, warned against giving up basic freedoms in the name of safety. A17

Harris Announces Candidacy
Katherine Harris, the Florida secretary of state who became a national figure during the presidential election last November, said her role would not be a major factor in her race for a Congressional seat from the Sarasota area next year. A18

Rate Increase Struck Down
The California Public Utilities Commission rejected higher rates for electricity consumers, throwing into turmoil a state plan for covering billions of dollars spent to buy power in the energy crisis. Consumer groups said the rise would have forced rate payers pay too much of the cost. A14

NEW YORK/REGION D1-6

Siegel Gains Ground In Runoff for Advocate
Preliminary results made public showed that Norman Siegel was in second place behind Betsy F. Gotbaum in the Democratic primary for public advocate. The Board of Elections began mailing out absentee ballots last night with their names for the Oct. 11 runoff. The vote count had been in doubt since the Sept. 25 primary, when an unofficial tally showed that four candidates were in close contention for the second-place spot behind Ms. Gotbaum. D1

Residents Return to Chaos
Residents say Battery Park City, never known for a wealth of amenities, feels like a war zone since the attack on the World Trade Center nearby. D1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Candidate for F.D.A. Post
Health Secretary Tommy G. Thompson is promoting a food safety expert, Dr. Lester Crawford, to be head the F.D.A., but the White House has yet to approve him. The White House and Congress have been unable to agree on a candidate for the job, which is now considered especially important because of heightened concerns about bioterrorism. A17

EDUCATION A19

Students Affected by Attacks
Many New York City schoolchildren are suffering emotional aftershocks as they struggle to understand what happened on Sept. 11 and how it will change their young lives. A19

DINING F1-14

OBITUARIES A20

SPORTS D8-15

Mets' Playoff Hopes End
The Pittsburgh Pirates beat the Mets, 10-1, putting an official end to New York's dreams of a late-season comeback and a chance to defend their National League championship title in the playoffs. D9

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Fed Again Trims Interest Rate
The Fed cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point to 2.5 percent, its lowest level in 39 years, continuing its effort to pump some vigor back into the economy. President Bush said he and Congressional leaders had agreed in general terms on the need for a package of tax cuts and spending increases. A1

The Dow rose 113.76 points, or 1.3 percent, to 8,950.59; the Nasdaq gained 11.87 points, to 1,492.33; and the S.& P. 500 climbed 12.78 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,051.33. C11

Investors seeking conservative investments like money market accounts and CD's have suffered this year as rates have dwindled. C1

Drug Discounts to Be Unveiled
GlaxoSmithKline, the nation's second largest drugmaker, is expected to announce today the creation of a national discount program for low-income seniors who lack prescription drug coverage. C1

More Job Cuts at Nortel
Nortel Networks of Canada will cut 10,000 jobs and reduce its work force by another 10,000 through the sale of businesses. The communications equipment maker earlier announced 30,000 jobs cuts. C2

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

ARTS E1-10

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The dwindling power of rate cuts; a looming New York fiscal crisis; sharing the evidence on terror.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Maureen Dowd.

Crossword E6
TV Listings E9
Public Lives D2
Weather A17

GRAPHIC: Photos 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); ARMS TRADE (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AVIATION SECURITY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); ELECTIONS (88%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (85%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TERRORISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); ARMIES (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); REFUGEES (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); ARRESTS (72%); WAR CRIMES (72%); ARMED FORCES (65%); AIRPORT OPERATION (65%); RELIGION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: GLORIA MACAPAGAL-ARROYO (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) ISRAEL (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



77 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE BUDGET; 
City's Budget Is Battered In the Aftermath of Attack

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
The attack on the World Trade Center has doubled the city's projected budget gap to roughly $4 billion, forcing the Giuliani administration to order all agencies to curtail spending.
 Some city and state officials are now calculating that just to clear the damage, they will ask the federal government for $40 billion or more, twice the amount already approved. In addition, they would also like federal help to stem losses in tax revenues caused by the attacks. 
 Many of the expenses related to the cleanup, like the overtime for firefighters and police officers and the removal of the wreckage, will likely be covered by the federal aid. But the concurrent sharp decline in revenue from thousands of fewer tourists and the loss of businesses in Lower Manhattan will cut deeply into the next mayor's budget, almost certainly leading to abandonment of many promises made along the campaign trail for things like housing and smaller class sizes. 
To the veterans of the city's fiscal crisis of the 1970's and the severe cutbacks at the beginning of the last decade that led to dirtier streets, deteriorating schools and the exodus of many professionals to the suburbs, the economic forecast this time threatens to undercut much of the successes of the last several years. 
"We think this is going to be as bad as the early 1990's, if not worse," said Charles Brecher, research director of the Citizens Budget Commission, a civic research organization. "We were already saying that a new mayor would have big budget problems, but there are added problems now. Outside of the immediate losses, the mayor has to deal with restoring the psychological sense of security, which has implications for keeping business here. Housing plans will have to be rethought. I think everything will be on the table now." 
The gap for the 2003 fiscal year, which begins in July, was already expected to be between $2 billion and $2.5 billion because of a softening economy, bloating debt load and impending labor negotiations. Now that is likely to grow to $4 billion, analysts and city officials predicted. 
Estimates of the costs related to the disaster are staggering: $5 billion to remove the debris, $14 billion to rebuild the area, $3 billion for overtime for uniform workers and $1 billion to replace destroyed vehicles and equipment. Fire Department accident response vehicles, for instance, are $400,000 each.
How much money the city will get from the federal government remains unclear, but some expenses will be picked up by the Federal Emergency Management Agency. 
The city had already been promised part of $20 billion in new federal aid, but city officials have revised their estimated need to $40 billion, and the state's calculations are shifting even higher. New York City officials have already met twice with Bush administration aides to discuss the city's financial needs, and they are working now, along with the state, to come up with a detailed estimate of the costs. City and state officials plan to present their proposals to the New York Congressional delegation in the next several days, but both Democratic and Republican congressmen say they expect an uphill battle in trying to get billions more in aid. Congressional Republicans had already resisted approving the initial package of $20 billion.
"It is a steep cliff we're climbing; that's why it's going to be critical for there to be consensus among us New Yorkers," said Representative John Sweeney, an upstate Republican who is close to Gov. George E. Pataki and helps oversee appropriations. 
Senator Charles E. Schumer said that the New York delegation recognized how tough it would be, but added: "We will have opposition. But so far the support has been overwhelming. I hope and pray it stays that way."
As for the White House, Adam Barsky, the city's budget director, said the Bush administration had encouraged city officials to present economic development plans, which he said was a stark contrast to Gerald Ford's infamous response to the city's fiscal crisis in the 1970's. 
New York is likely to suffer the most long-lasting financial effects in areas like the falloff in tourism, depleted personal and corporate tax revenue and a possible downward spiral of real estate taxes. Mitigating factors, like the increase in construction and a successful bond issue, could staunch some losses.
But city and state officials are not taking any chances, and are already angling for ways to get the federal government to take the unusual step of reimbursing the city not just for expenses, but also for a loss of revenues. There is some precedent for Washington making up lost toll revenue after a state is hit by a natural disaster, but there is less precedent for reimbursements for corporate and personal tax losses. "FEMA's policy has been to not reimburse for those types of revenue losses," Mr. Brecher said. 
But the city plans to make the case that unlike a hurricane, the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center was really an attack on the country, and that therefore the federal government should take up more of the bill. "It is very important that there be a recognition that a significant cost of the attack will be a direct and indirect loss of revenues," Mr. Barsky said. "If the city is unable to get full reimbursement for all of its cost including those lost revenues, there will be difficult choices that have to be made."
The Giuliani administration had already asked agencies to come up with $500 million in reductions in anticipation of shortfalls from the state, and is pressing them for real proposals to make cuts, officials said. The administration is also examining programs that can be cut and other ways to trim costs, but doesn't plan to seek layoffs for now.
City officials and independent budget analysts concede that the future is uncertain. For instance, it is not yet clear whether hotel occupancy rates, which have fallen by 40 percent to 80 percent since the attack, will remain low, along with other aspects of the tourist industry. 
Some losses, like the roughly $1 million a day lost to meter revenues and parking tickets since the attack, will be limited in the normal course of things, once the city drops its car-pooling regulations and reinstates alternate-side-of-the-street parking. And the effect on the city's real estate tax base is entirely unpredictable. 
"The long term issues are clearly unresolved," said Colleen Woodell, managing director in the public finance department of Standard & Poor's.
The federal government has already set aside $20 billion for recovery efforts in New York City, northern Virginia and Pennsylvania. The first $10 billion will be distributed at the president's discretion among the three sites and the rest will be assigned by Congress later. And lawmakers are studying the appropriation bill carefully, trying to ascertain what expenses can be picked up with it.
But New York is already asking for another $20 billion that it insists is needed to cover losses. Among them are increased pay for the families of the dead, rebuilding the city's office of emergency management -- for $150 million -- and heavily increased security around the city. The city also may find itself with increased applications for financial help; 1,369 people applied for food stamps or emergency funds so far. 
Outside of the government aid and various funds set up by the city to assist victims' families, other factors may come into play. As insurance proceeds flow into the marketplace and construction begins, the boost to the city's economy may resemble what happens in cities that suffer natural disasters. The city issued a bond whose proceeds will be used to rebuild businesses downtown, and yesterday it received $2 billion in orders from institutional investors, on top of the $387 million sold Monday to individual investors, making it the biggest city bond sale ever, Mr. Giuliani said. 
The mayoral candidates have offered their own proposals for rebuilding the city's financial health. The Democrats, Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer, have talked about creating a panel of business leaders and others to come up with a detailed plan, and Mr. Ferrer said yesterday that he would immediately begin construction of lost office space and complete construction and rehabilitation of at least 10 million square feet of office space within two years. "The next administration will have to come up with a long-term plan to deal with this," said Jeffrey Sommer, acting executive director of the Financial Control Board. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITIES (89%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



78 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 100 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
WYNDHAM HOTEL CHAIN WI LL LAY OFF 1,600 EMPLOYEES

BYLINE:  Reuters

 BODY:
 The Wyndham International hotel chain said yesterday that it was laying off or furloughing 1,600 of its employees, or about 5 percent of its work force of about 28,000, because of an industrywide slowdown. 
Wyndham, an operator or owner of about 240 upscale hotels, said it hoped to bring some of those workers back on the payroll as demand increased. The company said 20 percent of its 27,000 employees who work at hotels were working reduced hours until occupancies rise. The company is delaying capital projects, but will finish work on the Wyndham Newark Airport property this year in New Jersey. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTEL CHAINS (91%); LABOR FORCE (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); HOTEL STAFF (88%); RESORTS (86%) LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; HOTELS AND RESORTS 

ORGANIZATION: WYNDHAM INTERNATIONAL HOTEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



79 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 83 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: France:Consumers Lose Confidence 

BYLINE:  By Kerry Shaw (NYT) 

 BODY:
 Consumer confidence in France fell in September to its lowest level since May 1998, the French statistics institute said. 
The index dropped to minus 15 in September from minus 10 in July, the last month it was published. The institute said that about 44 percent of the confidence survey was conducted before the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States. The report follows the institute's French business confidence index, which fell to its lowest point in five years last Thursday. Kerry Shaw (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (89%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (88%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (85%); TRENDS (85%); POLLS & SURVEYS (84%) CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: SHAW, KERRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (90%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



80 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1397 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
The Hammer Comes Down On Wine On the Net

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial

DATELINE: NAPA, Calif., Oct. 2 

 BODY:
It was supposed to be the biggest wine auction in history.
 With almost a million bottles on the block, some of them prized rarities like 1921 Chateau d'Yquem and 1928 Chateau Lafite-Rothschild, it was to be a sale destined for the record books. 
 Held in a cavernous airplane hangar at the Napa Airport last Saturday and Sunday, the auction was expected to raise most of the $10.6 million owed by the defunct online wine retailer Wine.com. The wine, some 80,000 cases of it valued at $7.4 million, plus paraphernalia like glasses, decanters and storage racks valued at more than $2 million, were all that remained of Wine.com's assets.
But any hopes that the sale would pull in anything near the sums predicted were dashed when only about 300 people showed up on Saturday. Sunday's attendance was similar. "We had planned on about 6,000," said Roger Sanford, the chief marketing officer of Realm Connect, the parent company of AuctioNet, which conducted the sale. As the bidding wore down Sunday afternoon, Mr. Sanford acknowledged that the sale would bring in "only a fraction" of the $10 million that organizers had hoped for. 
A major part of the problem, of course, was timing: there was understandably little interest in investing in wine, or in flying to an auction, after the terrorist attacks three weeks ago. But the Wine.com liquidation was also dramatic evidence of how far interest in online wine has slipped. When even such a large array of bargains fails to attract many buyers, it's clear that, for the time being at least, the once-promising future of Internet wine sales is a thing of the past.
Wine.com was one of the largest online wine merchants. Much of its money was invested at a time when wine prices were at historically high levels. Wine.com was one of the few Internet services that kept large wine inventories, even while the economy was slowing and buyers were drifting away from online wine.
Restrictive government regulations also made business difficult. Wine.com wanted to ship to every state, and so it made expensive deals with distributors and retailers to accept and deliver the wine. Smaller online businesses, like eVineyard, are content to sell only where wine can be shipped across state lines. 
Anyone familiar with rare-wine auctions conducted by traditional auction houses would have been startled by the scene last weekend. Instead of dulcet-toned British auctioneers out of central casting, they would have heard Nuri Otus, the chief auctioneer, urging on his audience with, "C'mon, ladies and gentlemen, a buck a bottle, a buck a bottle."
Mr. Otus, the chief executive of Realm Connect, sounds, at full cry, just like the old Lucky Strike tobacco auctioneer on radio. He said that this was his first wine auction, but with occasional lapses, like making Haut-Brion "oat Brion," he quickly rose to the occasion, pushing old Lafite and Mouton with all the fervor of Christie's legendary wine auctioneer Michael Broadbent.
While pre-auction attention was focused on the rare wines on the block, most of the almost 3,000 lots were made up of large quantities of inexpensive wines, many from little-known producers. There were, for example, some 15,000 bottles of Beaujolais, 8,000 of St.-Veran, 8,000 of Anjou blanc and thousands of bottles of Austrian and Australian wines, most of them from unfamiliar wine makers and shippers.
Many wines sold for as little as 10 cents on the dollar. Most of these wines were purchased by dealers who were vague when asked what would be done with them. Before the auction, several wine-trade figures said they feared the wines would be dumped on the market at exceptionally low prices, undercutting conventional stocks. At the auction buyers predicted that that is exactly what would happen.
To prevent some of these wines from reaching the market at distress prices, a number of wine makers and distributors were allowed to buy back, before the auction and at wholesale prices, wines they had sold to Wine.com before the bankruptcy.
There were two groups of bidders: professionals interested in the large lots and collectors interested in the old bottles. As often happens at auctions, some overenthusiastic collectors paid more for wines than they would if they had bought them in retail shops. Several buyers paid $300 a bottle for the 1995 Chateau d'Yquem, while the retail price is about $195 in San Francisco.
Real bargains were few. A case of 1986 Chateau Cheval Blanc, valued at $4,500, sold for $3,000. A case of 1990 Chateau Margaux, valued at $6,900, sold for $5,500. Most of these wines were listed in the catalog with their ratings in Wine Spectator, a consumer magazine. The 1990 Margaux was rated 96 out of 100.
There were excellent lots of Spanish wines, from Priorato and the Ribera del Duero, but the audience show little interest. "Bodega?," said a man behind me. "Isn't a bodega a grocery store?"
Burgundies were among the best offerings. Producers included Roumier, Jayer-Gilles, Armand Rousseau and surprisingly large lots from Leroy and the Domaine de la Romanee-Conti. A case assortment of 1997's from the D.R.C. contained one bottle of Romanee-Conti, three of La Tache, two of Richebourg, two of Romanee-St.-Vivant, one Grands-Echezeaux and three Echezeaux; listed at $8,700, they sold for $2,800. 
Many wines, including several thousand bottles of New Zealand chardonnay and Blanquette de Limoux, a sparkling wine from France, were sold unlabled. Called "shiners," these are wines that are prepared for wine clubs or retailers who want private labels. Some of the Blanquette was labeled "Virtual Vineyards," an online predecessor of Wine.com.
Some lots were bizarre by traditional wine auction standards. A lot of 3,400 boxes of Italian pretzels, valued at $10,000, sold for $600. Green Italian olives, 1,452 containers of them valued at $6,400, sold for $750. "We tried the pretzels," Mr. Otus told the bidders, "and they were pretty good."
Thirty-three gift sets, composed of two bottles of wine, "minitoasts," Dijon mustard, salami, pickles, a soft-handle corkscrew, a knife, a cheese board, four tumblers and a "Delacroix wedding tray," valued at $1,800 for the lot, sold to an Internet bidder for $400.
Private bidders were limited to 20 cases to discourage resale. Total price included the winning bid, buyer's premium, taxes and shipping costs. All wine had to be shipped; since it was stored at another location, none could be taken away from the auction. Charges and shipping costs could add an estimated 25 percent to the initial price of the wine.
It was an anticlimactic ending to a tumultuous enterprise. In 1994, Peter Granoff, a wine enthusiast and restaurateur, along with partners, founded a company to sell wine on the Internet. They called it Virtual Vineyards. 
Five years later, Virtual Vineyards purchased Wine.com, a small online site with no appreciable retail business. "Frankly, we just wanted the name," Mr. Granoff said. Late in 2000, when enthusiasm for online wine and Internet sales in general began to wane, Wine.com merged with Wineshopper.com, a small competitor. "Our sales were 60 times greater than theirs," Mr. Granoff said. 
Between them, the two companies had run through some $200 million in financing from investors that included Amazon.com, The New York Times Company, GE Capital and Kleiner Perkins Caulfield & Byers. The merger only briefly staved off the inevitable. In April, all that was left of Wine.com, its name and mailing list, were swallowed up by eVineyard, a former rival.
Wine.com may be out of the picture, but its name lives on. EVineyard sells wine online under the name Wine.com by eVineyard. EVineyard said it paid Sand Hill, a main investor, $10 million for Wine.com's name, goodwill and intangible assets but said it has no other interest in the defunct company. 
In fact, it once threatened to sue AuctioNet for using the Wine.com name in conjunction with the auction. EVineyard sells wine online in 23 states and Japan.
Is there a future for wine on the Internet? Mr. Granoff is convinced there is.
"With the contraction of wine distributors all over the country, it's almost impossible for small producers to bring their wines to market," he said. "For them, the Internet is the only way to go."
The most publicized sale at this auction was the 1921 Chateau d'Yquem, he said. "How was it sold? To an online bidder. Over the Internet."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ANY BIDS? -- Auctioning off the assets of Wine.com. (Associated Press)(pg. F1); ON THE BLOCK -- Thousands of cases owned by Wine.com were auctioned off last weekend in Napa, Calif. (Dona Kopol Bonick for The New York Times)(pg. F10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); WINE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); INTERNET RETAILING (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); PARENT COMPANIES (74%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (68%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SC CHATEAU D'YQUEM (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NAPA VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



81 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
In an uneasy climate, the group approach is so popular, even rivals unite in campaigns.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
"UNITED we stand" can now be considered more than a patriotic exhortation. Increasingly, it is serving as a strategy for advertisers to attract the attention of consumers in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks.
 A growing number of television commercials, print advertisements, posters and other pitches are being presented under the sponsorship of trade groups, industry associations and umbrella organizations -- some longstanding, others ad hoc efforts formed after Sept. 11. 
 The trend toward cooperation is evident from Madison Avenue, where agencies are working with a former top executive of Lowe Lintas & Partners Worldwide to produce campaigns under the aegis of the Advertising Council, to Wall Street, where 10 leading names in financial services joined forces for a newspaper ad declaring the country was "open for business," to Main Street, where airlines, insurance companies and tourist attractions are addressing customers together rather than separately.
One reason for the cooperative ads is that "pooling resources makes it seem like a bigger effort, like there's a lot of clout behind it," said Philip B. Dusenberry Jr., chairman for the North American operations of BBDO Worldwide in New York, part of the Omnicom Group. 
"And it's more cost effective," he added, "because it's easier and cheaper to run one ad than for each one to run its own ad." That is an important consideration because of the weakening economy, which had seemed to be slipping into a recession even before the wrenching disruptions caused by the attacks.
Another reason for these ads is "that by doing it all together, it takes you out of the realm of people questioning if you're taking advantage of the situation or their feelings," said Alicia Kriese, senior vice president and group account director at GSD&M in Austin, Tex. Her agency, also owned by Omnicom, helped produce the financial services ad at the request of a client, the Charles Schwab Corporation, which GSD&M shares with BBDO. Other sponsors of the ad included American Express, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley.
"Most days," Ms. Kriese said, "I want to kick butts" at sibling agencies like BBDO, "but we came together as an Omnicom family" for the ad.
"Reaching out to others is what this is about," she added. "What unites you is a lot stronger than what divides you, and a lot of times we forget that."
Among those preaching that in union there is strength are the American Insurance Association, which represents more than 370 property and casualty companies; the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, with more than 100 drug makers as members; the League of American Theaters and Producers, representing the Broadway community; the Travel Industry Association of America; and the Empire State Development Corporation and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which are spending $40 million on a coordinated "I <heart> New York" campaign to urge business and leisure travelers to return to the city; and the Advertising Council.
The council named Michael Sennott yesterday to oversee what Peggy Conlon, president and chief executive, described as "a high-level team to develop the communication strategy that will inform all the messages we're creating" for public service campaigns related to the attacks. Mr. Sennott, 59, is the former deputy chairman at Lowe Lintas and has just retired as senior partner and vice chairman at the Lowe Lintas parent, the Partnership division of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
"It doesn't mean individual agencies can't make their own contributions," Ms. Conlon said, "but the council is taking the same umbrella position, the leadership position, as we did 60 years ago," when the council was founded, as the War Advertising Council, after the attack on Pearl Harbor.
A coordinated approach can help "make sure we're more proactive, more strategic," she added, "that the campaigns work together, that we're able to measure their impact over time."
There can be pluses and minuses to uniting for ads, according to Simon Williams, chief executive at the Sterling Group, a corporate identity and brand consulting company in New York.
On one hand, "it shows an industry to be proactive and it gives a sense of caring," Mr. Williams said. "Individually, a company may feel isolated and not take out ads on its own."
On the other hand, he added, such ads "can seem like bland messages from inanimate objects, industry cartels, because I as a consumer have a relationship with a brand rather than an association."
Another fault Mr. Williams said he finds is that "the ads do look atrocious, like they were created by one of the finest agencies in Teaneck, N.J."
Needless to say, the organizations running the ads do not agree with that assessment.
"Our companies were also doing things separately, but we wanted to convey a sense from an emotional perspective that this was different for us," said Julie Rochman, senior vice president at the American Insurance Institute in Washington, who served as the copywriter for a plain, all-text newspaper ad signed by the organization's board, the chief executives of 18 property and casualty insurance companies from ACE to the Zurich Financial Services Group.
"We wanted to say that as much as it rocked us personally," she added, referring to the attack on the World Trade Center, "we are part of the recovery effort, that this is what we do."
Christopher Molineaux, vice president in Washington for the pharmaceutical association, known as Pharma, said: "We have not done this before. The decision was based on the enormous outpouring of support our companies engaged in, upwards of $82 million in cash and untold amounts of product. We wanted to express to all Americans, as well as our member companies, that the pharmaceutical industry is supportive of the nation and individual families when they suffer loss."
In some instances, unity is meant to pervade all aspects of the ads. For example, a line in the script for a TV spot for the "I <heart> New York" campaign, which read "Come see New York in its finest hour," was revised by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani to read "Come see New York united in its finest hour." The mayor will appear in the commercial, scheduled to begin running next Wednesday, along with Gov. George E. Pataki.
"If different groups want to run their own messages about their own particular industries, that's fine," said Mike Rogers, president and executive creative director at the New York office of the Wolf Group, the agency for the development corporation, "but people look to 'I <heart> New York' to carry the ball."
"Not to be out there with anything would be noticeable," he added.
Perhaps the most notable example of the lion -- and "The Lion King" -- lying down with the lamb is the campaign from the theater league, which carries the theme "I <heart> New York Theater." It united the producers of 31 shows, who regularly compete against one another for ticket buyers; their press agents, who usually battle one another for column inches in newspapers; and two agencies that specialize in theatrical advertising, Serino Coyne and Spotco, regularly fierce rivals.
"I worked in advertising for 15 years, and you can work happily without ever working with your colleagues at other agencies," said Jed Bernstein, president of the theater league in New York. "You didn't need each other to get your business done."
"But on Broadway, the competitor today is the co-investor tomorrow," he added, "and the actor you lost the part to one month is on stage with you the next month."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a new commercial, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, left, and Gov. George E. Pataki urge travelers to come back to New York City. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); INSURANCE (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (73%); TRENDS (72%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); PORT AUTHORITIES (70%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); THEATER (67%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (85%); LOWE & PARTNERS WORLDWIDE (84%); CHARLES SCHWAB CORP (64%); PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%); EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ADVERTISING COUNCIL (57%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (85%); SCHW (NYSE) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (56%); AXP (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%); NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (52%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



82 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Shares CloseUp After the Fed's Move to Reduce Rates

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after the Federal Reserve cut interest rates by half a percentage point in an effort to revive a declining economy.
 Investors reacted cautiously after the Fed said that the terrorist attacks last month had significantly increased the uncertainties in an already weak economy. 
 "The market did not evidence a rip-roaring response to the ninth Fed interest rate cut this year," said Alan Ackerman, chief market strategist at Fahnestock & Company. 
"While the averages were up, there were many who believe that we need more evidence of an economic stimulus package and more liquidity to help both the economy and the market," he said.
The Dow Jones industrial average increased 113.76 points, or 1.3 percent, to close at 8,950.59, after initially retreating when the Fed announced the rate cuts. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index gained 11.87 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,492.33. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 12.78 points, or 1.2 percent, to 1,051.33.
Shares of military contractors rallied yesterday as the prospect of American retaliation for the terrorist attacks seemed nearly certain. Alliant Techsystems rose $1.60, to $85, and Northrop Grumman gained $3.75, to $105.20. The CompuDyne Corporation climbed $2.95, to $17.75, while InVision Technologies gained 14 cents, to $9.84.
Boeing increased $1.85, to $34.25, after announcing yesterday that China would buy 30 of the company's 737 airliners, worth $1.6 billion. Lockheed Martin, Boeing's chief competitor, was up $1.39, to $45.
Airline stocks, especially regional companies, showed strength after several brokerage houses upgraded their ratings. Merrill Lynch upgraded Delta Air Lines, which gained $1.30, to $27.09; Alaska Air, which increased $1.36, to $21.16; and Atlantic Coast Airlines, which gained $2.33, to $15.94.
SkyWest Airlines rose $1.39, to $18.56, after it was added to the recommended list of Goldman Sachs.
Software stocks also showed strength. PeopleSoft increased $2.87, to $20.54; Siebel Systems gained $2.01, to $15.06; and Microsoft rose $1.26, to $53.05.
Earnings warnings continued, with McGraw-Hill tumbling $6.40, to $50.50, after it said it would miss its earnings forecast for the quarter and the year.
After the market closed, Nortel Networks said it would post a loss of $3.6 billion for the third quarter because of a decrease in sales. The company also said that it would cut at least 15,000 more jobs and that its chief executive, John Roth, would retire at the end of the month, six months ahead of schedule. Shares of Nortel fell 18 cents, to $5.29, in regular trading, and fell as low as $4.70 in after-hours trading.
 --------------------

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- Treasury bond prices rose yesterday after the Federal Reserve reduced its benchmark lending rate to the lowest level in four decades and suggested that more cuts may follow as growth slows in coming months.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 6/32, to 103 28/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.51 percent from 4.53 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 23/32, to 100 23/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.33 percent from 5.38 percent on Monday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 4-week bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.823
High Rate: 2.280
Coupon Yield: 2.311
Low Rate: 2.185
Median Rate: 2.230
Total applied for: $24,129,475
Accepted: $11,361,665
Noncompetitive: $11,823
The 4-week bills mature Nov. 1, 2001.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Chart tracks percentages from one month ago and yesterday.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AIRLINES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); BONDS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (74%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (73%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (72%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); ORACLE CORP (84%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (72%); COMPUDYNE CORP (67%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); ALLIANT TECHSYSTEMS INC (55%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (55%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); SKYWEST AIRLINES LTD (54%); BOEING CO (54%); ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (53%); ATLANTIC COAST AIRLINES INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (52%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (84%); GS (NYSE) (58%); ATK (NYSE) (55%); LMT (NYSE) (55%); NOC (NYSE) (55%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); SXR (ASX) (54%); SKYW (LSE) (54%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%); ALK (NYSE) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (67%); SIC7382 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (67%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS332993 AMMUNITION (EXCEPT SMALL ARMS) MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (55%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (55%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (55%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



83 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Auto Sales Off in September, But Less Than Expected 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
United States auto sales slumped last month, but were better than analysts expected. 
 A drought in auto sales after the attacks has already led to additional belt-tightening for an industry that was trimming as the economy worsened. Now, analysts say demand will plunge more sharply, leading to more production cuts, plant closings and layoffs. 
 The Ford Motor Company said today that it would lose in excess of 10 cents a share in the third quarter, below most analysts' estimates. General Motors said it would cut fourth- quarter production by 30,000 to 50,000 vehicles, to just below 1.3 million. Morgan Stanley recently cut its 2002 earnings estimate for G.M. to $1.75 a share from $4. And the Chrysler Group unit of DaimlerChrysler, whose sales continue to decline sharply, said it would cut its October vehicle production by 26,000 vehicles and said it would intermittently idle five plants this month. 
Over all, the seasonally adjusted annual rate of auto sales in the United States fell to 15.8 million cars and light trucks in September, a 9 percent drop from the month last year, according to Ward's AutoInfoBank, an automotive data service in Southfield, Mich. 
While overall sales fell, sales at General Motors, and to some extent Ford, actually held up surprisingly well in September. But analysts caution that new interest-free loan programs, started after the attacks, drove up demand. But they make it harder for Ford and G.M. to make money. 
Sales were better than expected for G.M. and Ford, said David Healy, an analyst at Burnham Securities. "The big question," he added, "is how much of the sales at the end of the month were brought in by incentives?"
Lloyd Hansen, Ford's controller, appeared to agree on a conference call today. "Longer term, it's clear that we're going to have to de-escalate these levels," he said, referring to the current incentives. 
Coming into the month, the auto industry was expecting to have slower sales than last year's record pace. Sales had been slowing for a few months as the economic picture clouded. Then, sales plunged after the Sept. 11 attacks, which also led to parts shortages because of closings at the Mexican and Canadian borders and the halting of airport traffic. 
The Big Three were expected to fare worse than foreign automakers, but Ford, G.M. and Chrysler put aggressive additional incentive programs in place. They were partly motivated by talks with Bush administration officials, who urged them to do their best to keep selling cars and trucks instead of cutting production. 
The incentives seemed to be effective. In September, sales at G.M. fell 3 percent compared with September 2000. Sales at Ford fell 9.7 percent and sales at Chrysler fell 28 percent. By comparison, American sales at Toyota fell 4.2 percent, sales at BMW rose 4.4 percent and sales at Honda fell 3.8 percent compared with September 2000.
Chrysler continues to struggle more than G.M. and Ford as its staples suffer. Sales of the Jeep Grand Cherokee fell 39 percent as it lost ground to a torrent of new sport utility vehicles from foreign competitors and G.M. However, Chrysler's sales drop compared with September 2000 is somewhat distorted by the fact that last year the company was using heavy incentives to clear excess inventory. 
Ford was hurt by slowing sales at its Hertz unit, one of the largest rental car companies. Hertz and its competitors have all been hurt by greatly diminished air traffic, because much of their business is derived from cars rented at airports. 
"Their rentals have been off 30 to 35 percent through the second half of September as a result of lower air travel," said Mr. Hansen, Ford's controller. 
"It's been a major problem for the daily rental industry, and that's going to sharply reduce results for Hertz for the third quarter."
G.M. officials said during a conference call today that they would offset the costs of the company's new incentive package by cutting from some other marketing plans. The cost of the incentives should also be mitigated, somewhat, by falling interest rates, which make such offerings cheaper for automakers.
"It is not a budget-busting program," said Paul Ballew, G.M.'s general director of global market and industry analysis. "We think it is a very targeted and a very timely and appropriate program given our leadership position in this industry." 
For many analysts, the true effects of Sept. 11, and of the overall economic downturn, will not be visible for a couple of months. But most expect sales to slow considerably next year, and profitability to fare even worse.
Ronald Tadross, an analyst at Bank of America, projects that G.M. could lose as much as $100 a vehicle next year. "Pricing is bad as it gets," he said. "Companies like G.M. are not making any money."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andy Abramson, an auto salesman, showed Barb Werckle cars on the lot at Fran-Kral Lincoln-Mercury-Volvo in Rockford, Ill., yesterday. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SALES (94%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); TRENDS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); PLANT CLOSINGS (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); STATISTICS (72%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%) AUTOMOBILES, TRUCKS AND OTHER MOTOR VEHICLES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (94%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (86%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO (F); GENERAL MOTORS CORP (GM) 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); MS (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (59%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



84 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Suspects and Strategy

NATO UNITY -- The alliance, finding Washington had "clear and compelling proof" that Osama bin Laden was behind the Sept. 11 attacks, invoked its mutual defense clause. A1

WORKING AROUND PAKISTAN -- The Pentagon is planning to minimize the use of Pakistani bases in a military strike against the Taliban, to avoid risking destabilization of a volatile ally that has nuclear weapons. A1

FRENCH TELL OF A PLOT -- A Frenchman of Algerian background has told French investigators that he was part of a plot by Osama bin Laden to blow up the American Embassy in Paris, a French official said. B4

U.S. WARNING ON ITALY -- The State Department said it had information about possible attacks on "symbols of American capitalism" in Italy in the next month and warned Americans there to be cautious. B4

Vague Alarm, British Roar

NOT ENOUGH INFORMATION -- Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said that before Sept. 11 the Bush administration had a "lot of signs" that terrorists were planning attacks but that extensive efforts by intelligence agencies could not gather enough solid information to prevent them. A1

BRITISH DECLARATION -- Prime Minister Tony Blair held Osama bin Laden responsible for the Sept. 11 attacks and warned the Taliban to give him up or "face the consequences." B1

2 Faces of Afghanistan

TALIBAN WANT TO TALK -- Afghanistan's rulers said they were ready to negotiate with Washington about turning over Osama bin Laden to a third country, apparently in an effort to avert a military strike. B1

WOMEN IN AFGHANISTAN -- In northern Afghanistan, an area controlled by the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance, women can go to school and even go to work under the more permissive Islam practiced there. B6

ON GUARD -- Chemical, fuel and manufacturing industries, power and water suppliers, and agencies dealing with transportation and the environment are scrambling to safeguard an array of dangerous materials. B6

Security and Travel

DISSENSION IN THE WEST -- Many people in the Republican bastions out West are balking at Bush administration antiterror proposals that they fear will infringe on personal freedoms. B1

BUSH STAYS CLOSER TO HOME -- White House officials are rethinking the purpose of presidential travel. B7

IMPROVING AIR SAFETY -- Congress and the White House negotiated over legislation to tighten aviation security. Divisions remain over whether the government should run the security effort or just supervise it. B7

PENTAGON SECURITY POST -- Army Secretary Thomas E. White was named the Pentagon's first coordinator for homeland security. B7

Oversight and Hindsight

EARLY WARNING SIGNS -- Officials say the Sept. 11 attacks took them by surprise, but the record offers numerous indications that airliners might be hijacked and used as weapons. B2

HOLDING SPY AGENCIES TO ACCOUNT -- The House committee that overseas intelligence agencies wants far-reaching changes in spy operations and an investigation into the failure to foresee or prevent the attacks. B2

Trails Across Europe

FINDING BIN LADEN'S MONEY -- A far-reaching network of informal banking known as hawala, the Arabic word for trust, allows billions of dollars to flow worldwide unseen by regulators and Western investigators. B5

SPANISH CONNECTION INQUIRY -- The authorities are investigating whether Mohamed Atta, thought to have led the Sept. 11 attacks, met with others involved in the attacks on trips to Spain in January and July. B5

WIDER ANTITERROR EFFORT -- India demanded that Pakistan shut down a group behind an attack in India on Monday that killed at least 38 people. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the anti-terror campaign would include Kashmiri militants. B5

U.S. Muslims and Rights

BIN LADEN PHILANTHROPY -- It is an awkward time for students, professors and colleges in the United States and Britain benefiting from the bin Laden's family's longtime largesse within the academic community. B1

FEAR OF BIAS IN THE COURTS -- Arab-Americans and Muslims say they are settling legal cases they may have contested or are asking that trials be delayed out of fear of a backlash from the Sept. 11 attacks. B8

PUSH ON ANTITERROR BILL -- The Bush administration and its Republican allies in the Senate increased pressure on Senate Democrats to act quickly on antiterror legislation. B8

AMERICAN MUSLIM'S MESSAGE -- Agha Saeed, chairman of the American Muslim Alliance, which fosters the political assimilation of Arab-Americans, is preaching tolerance to both Arab-Americans pressed by others' suspicions and to their neighbors alarmed by terror attacks. B8

The New York Economy

BUDGET WOES DEEPEN -- The attack on the World Trade Center has doubled the city's projected budget gap to roughly $4 billion, forcing the Giuliani administration to order all agencies to curtail spending. A1

WORKERS' DISRUPTED LIVES -- The trade center's destruction has scattered employees who worked there across the region, requiring changes in the work lives of thousands. B9

FINANCIAL DISTRICT UNCERTAINTY -- Some companies in Lower Manhattan are looking for space elsewhere, while others express confidence in the devastated neighborhood. B9

Aftermath in New York

SOMBER SIGHTSEEING -- The Circle Line cruise around Manhattan, long a celebration of Gotham's glory, has become a somber glide past a communal burial ground. A1

PROMOTING TOURISM -- To lift the city's reeling tourism industry, officials are planning measures like a plane ticket giveaway to 10,000 out-of-towners and a $40 million advertising campaign. B10

WORKING TOGETHER -- Mayor Giuliani and the state attorney general pledged to work together to coordinate the charitable response. B10

NEEDIEST CASES B10

Portraits of Grief B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); TALIBAN (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HIJACKING (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); ARMIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); AVIATION SECURITY (76%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (70%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (68%); ESPIONAGE (66%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); AIRLINES (60%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); TONY BLAIR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



85 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SCHOLARSHIPS; 
Endowments From bin Ladens Prove Awkward

BYLINE:  By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Months ago, Dale F. Eickelman, a professor at Dartmouth College, accepted a grant from a program at Oxford University to study the splintering religious and political leadership within the Islamic world, including the role of Osama bin Laden.
 But what distinguishes Dr. Eickelman from most scholars of Islam is that he is studying this fall under a fellowship endowed in memory of Mr. bin Laden's father, Muhammad, and financed by Mr. bin Laden's extended family, which has denounced the accused terrorist. This semester, Dr. Eickelman is, for better or worse, the bin Laden Visiting Fellow at the Oxford Center for Islamic Studies. 
 While Dr. Eickelman concedes that his title has taken on an unfortunate resonance in the days since Sept. 11, he said he has felt no pressure to return his $5,900 stipend.
"I've worked for 30 years in the Middle East," said Dr. Eickelman, who is on leave from a position at Dartmouth's anthropology department. "One is used to dealing with extended families, the different parts of which are not necessarily in close contact."
Still, these are awkward times for the students, professors and colleges that have been the beneficiaries of the bin Laden family's longtime largesse. The recipients of the family's philanthrophy are studying, or have studied, not only at Oxford but also at at least two American institutions: Harvard University, where the family has endowed fellowships valued at $2 million in the graduate schools of law and design, and Tufts University, which received $300,000 in the mid-1990's for lectures and language training at the Islamic studies program of its Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy.
Officials at Oxford, Harvard and Tufts said the family's estrangement from Osama bin Laden provided all the reassurance that they needed to spend the family's money. But a Harvard spokesman, Andy Tiedemann, said that if investigators ever linked the family's construction company, which made the donations, to the terrorist attacks, "then it would be a very different picture."
Still, the universities conceded that the Sept. 11 attacks had already necessitated adjustments. Harvard, for example, no longer lists the names of its bin Laden fellows on its Web site.
"It was done," said Joe Wrinn, another Harvard spokesman, "to prevent any kind of harassment and to allay any security concerns."
Frank Vogel, the director of the Islamic legal studies program at Harvard Law School, said he had met the bin Ladens in the mid-1990's through Osama bin Laden's half-brother Abdullah, one of at least 50 children in the family. Abdullah bin Laden received a master's degree from Harvard Law in 1993 and a doctorate last year.
Dr. Vogel said that he and the law school dean secured a $1 million donation from the family only after traveling to Saudi Arabia to meet with another of Osama bin Laden's siblings, Bakr Muhammad, who runs the family's construction company. (Though separated from the family and its company, Osama bin Laden, 44, is believed to have drawn much of his wealth from his family's fortune after his father died in 1968.)
Osama bin Laden's siblings "are known as very high-minded and high-principled donors," Dr. Vogel said, adding that "supporting needy students is always given high value in the Islamic moral system."
The law school used the donation to created two endowments. The investment income from one endowment has supported fellowships for professors and other researchers from overseas. The bin Laden fellows have used their time at Harvard -- as much as nine months -- to compare aspects of Western and Islamic law, more as students than teachers.
There are three bin Laden fellows at Harvard Law this year, but Dr. Vogel declined to identify them, saying they had been distracted and unsettled by the terrorist attacks.
The law school has also used income from a second endowment to finance annual scholarships for law students from predominantly Muslim countries. Their scholarships do not bear the bin Laden name.
Harvard's graduate school of design negotiated its own $1 million donation from the family. It has used the money to pay the research expenses of bin Laden fellows who are engaged in advanced research on issues of architecture and urban planning that "pertain specifically to Islamic environments," said Patricia Roberts, the associate dean for academic affairs.
As yet, no fellow has been named at the design school this year but in past years there have been as many as two, Dr. Roberts said.
The Oxford Center for Islamic Studies, a program associated with the university, was established in 1985 to bring together scholars of the Islamic and Western worlds. The center began its bin Laden fellowship program in the 1990's with a $150,000 donation from the family, said David Browning, the center's registrar.
Dr. Eickelman of Dartmouth is one of at least a half-dozen scholars who have held the fellowship. One fellow from Jordan studied Islamic art; another from Malaysia studied the economics of southeast Asia.
At Tufts, Andrew Hess, the director of the Asian and Islamic studies program at the Fletcher school, said he had met Abdullah bin Laden, the Harvard law graduate, at a conference in Boston and had negotiated the $300,000 donation with him. 
The money was given in installments from 1992 to 1994 and has been used up, Dr. Hess said. Despite the Sept. 11 attacks, he said he would gladly accept another donation.
"They gave the money with no strings attached, which is extraordinary," Dr. Hess said. "And they have made it clear that Osama bin Laden is not only unwelcome in their family but is engaged in destroying their business opportunities." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); ENDOWMENTS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); FAMILY (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CHARITIES (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (73%); CHILDREN (72%); WEB SITES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: DARTMOUTH COLLEGE (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



86 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: STATE DEPARTMENT; 
Powell Says U.S. Had Signs, But Not Clear Ones, of a Plot

BYLINE:  By JANE PERLEZ and DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said today that the Bush administration had received a "lot of signs" that terrorists were planning attacks against the United States but extensive efforts by intelligence agencies failed to pick up enough information to stop the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington. 
 Early this summer "there were a lot of signs that there was something going on," Secretary Powell said. "But we never got the fidelity and the information that we would have liked to, some warning of what did actually happen." 
 In looking back today in an interview in his State Department suite, Secretary Powell expressed frustration that, despite a summer of warnings of possible terrorist actions against American civilian and military sites around the world, the information was not sufficient to identify the specific targets that were struck last month. "The intelligence agencies were trying," he said. "We were watchful throughout all of our embassy systems." 
Mr. Powell praised George Tenet, the director of central intelligence, a holdover from the Clinton administration. The House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence is urging far-reaching changes in intelligence operations and an independent investigation into why the government did not foresee or prevent the Sept. 11 attacks. Page B2. 
While he was generally upbeat in his accounting of the progress so far in the global campaign against terror, he made it clear that the administration was still at the early stages of winning full cooperation from allied and other nations.
For example, despite pledges of cooperation, Saudi Arabia has not yet said publicly that the United States would be able to use air bases there for offensive operations against targets in Afghanistan.
Secretary Powell insisted that the administration is demonstrating to allies and moderate Arab governments that the case against Osama bin Laden and his network is convincing.
He asserted that "all paths" lead to Mr. bin Laden and his Al Qaeda network, although he cautioned not to see it in terms of a case "that's going to trial in a court."
Instead, administration officials have been briefing allies on what he called "pretty good information" establishing the link between the airplane hijackers and Mr. bin Laden. 
"It's a campaign in many parts and pieces all working to go after a common enemy," Secretary Powell said. "That enemy's name is terrorism. And in its most ambitious manifestation it goes by the name Al Qaeda and the head of that awful holding company is bin Laden and he is responsible for tragedy against humanity, crime against the American people, crime against the civilized world and he must be held accountable."
Secretary Powell described in general terms the cable that has been sent to American embassies around the world outlining the case against Mr. bin Laden. He said it describes the history of the terrorist network, and recites existing indictments filed against Mr. bin Laden for his alleged involvement in the 1998 bombings of two American Embassies in East Africa. It also describes evidence of Mr. bin Laden's responsibility "for past crimes against the U.S. and against civilization," presumably including the attack last year on the American destroyer Cole in Yemen.
While the administration has not made any documents public, as General Powell suggested that it might 10 days ago, he said today that "over time enough information would surface" to convince the American people. "The case will never be able to be described as circumstantial," he said. "It's not circumstantial now."
Secretary Powell also touched, gingerly, on the political future of Afghanistan. Despite a policy statement from the Bush administration last week stating that the Taliban does not represent the Afghan people, General Powell stopped well short of saying that the overthrow of the hard-line Islamic government is an explicit goal. 
"Our goal in the first instance as the president has laid out is to go after Al Qaeda and its leader bin Laden and its camps in Afghanistan," he said. "And the Taliban regime will pay a price."
Addressing the possibilty that the Taliban might not survive the coming confrontation, Secretary Powell said he hoped for the emergence of a new government that would be "representative" of the many ethnic groups that make up the Afghan people. 
"Hopefully, the Afghan people can find themselves under the leadership of a government that is representative of all the Afghan people and is a less repressive government than the kind that is there now." He held out the possibility of substantial economic assistance once the Taliban is out of the way. 
Already the Bush administration has made available $170 million in relief aid, and officials suggested this weekend that another $100 million would be on the way by the end of the year. Secretary Powell said that figure would rise, and the United States would try to bring "some level of stability in their society."
"We would see what we could do to put the country on a more secure footing," he said. "You're not doing your job if you are not thinking of future opportunities and possibilities."
Asked how he would define victory in the long campaign ahead, Secretary Powell gave a broad and ambitious definition -- one that centered more on how Americans felt than any specific military victory.
"I see the success of this campaign being measured in the restoration of a degree of security in society, where people are not as frightened as they are now," he said.
He added that another measure of success would come "when there is less terrorism, far less, preferably zero terrorism with a global reach of the world."
President Bush has often said many victories would arise from covert operations, never seen by the American people. But Secretary Powell said: "Even covert activities eventually produce visible results." 
Asked about his newly disclosed plans to declare that the administration supports the creation of a Palestinian state as part of a settlement in the Middle East, Secretary Powell said he had not decided when or where to outline his views.
After staying aloof from the Israeli-Palestinian conflict for most of the year, the administration was about to dive in when the Sept. 11 attacks occurred. Those attacks delayed the opening of the United Nations General Assembly in New York, where Mr. Bush had been planning to meet the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, and Mr. Powell had been planning to deliver a speech outlining the administration's ideas for resolving the conflict. Today, Secretary Powell suggested that when that initiative resumed would depend on events in Afghanistan.
The intelligence warnings about terrorist attacks that Secretary Powell discussed today were received during the spring and summer, particularly before the Fourth of July and the summit meeting of industrialized nations in Genoa, Italy, that month.
Vice President Dick Cheney referred to those reports in an hour-long interview on "Meet the Press" on Sept. 16 when he said that the government had information that a "big operation" was planned. But, like Secretary Powell today, Mr. Cheney said there was "no specific threat involving really a domestic operation." 
Secretary Powell suggested that the State Department and the intelligence agencies had been on high alert against terrorism, and had been trying, though its embassies abroad, to hone in on Mr. bin Laden's plans. But twice he said that the American intelligence gathering effort never came up with enough "fidelity" -- a word that seemed to suggest that they either misunderstood the signals they were receiving, or simply did not have enough specific data.
"There were a number of reports that we were worried about but that never crystallized," he said. "There were a lot of signs that there was something going on -- nobody could ever get the fidelity in those reports."
In June and early July, United States intelligence officials warned that Mr. bin Laden and al Qaeda appeared to be planning terrorist attacks against American interests. Those warnings prompted public alerts by the administration of possible terrorist attacks timed for the Fourth of July holidays. 
When no attacks occurred around July 4, American intelligence officials began to assume that the immediate threat had passed. In retrospect, some American officials say that their focus on that holiday may have been a misreading of the information they had received. 
All through June and July, the State Department released reports warning that terrorist attacks were imminent in locations from the Mideast to East Asia. In July, for example, the department warned about possible attacks against installations in Japan and South Korea, as well as against American interests in the Arabian Peninsula.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Colin L. Powell said agencies had warnings of possible attacks but could not identify the targets. Prime Minister Tony Blair demanded that the Taliban surrender Osama bin Laden. (Associated Press); (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Secretary of State Powell said that American aid to Afghans is intended to bring "some level of stability in their society." About $170 million in American relief for Afghan refugees has been made available so far. Refugee children, top, watched trucks bring aid to the Nasir Bagh camp on the outskirts of Peshawar, Pakistan, yesterday. World Food Program employees carried wheat to a camp warehouse. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); HIJACKING (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); LITIGATION (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); TONY BLAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



87 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Florida's Secretary of State Seeks House Seat 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

DATELINE: SARASOTA, Fla., Oct. 2 

 BODY:
Katherine Harris, the Florida secretary of state who became a national figure during the presidential election last November, said today that she would run for Congress next year and that her role in the presidential contest would not be a major factor in her own race.
 Ms. Harris, a Republican, said she had moved on from the turmoil of the protracted presidential election and believed that most voters in the state had as well. 
 Now, she said, it is her own political future that is foremost in her mind. 
"I don't have any regrets," said Ms. Harris, who was harshly criticized by Democrats last November for decisions that were seen as helping George W. Bush. "I don't have any apologies or excuses. I think history will show that we followed the law exactly." 
She knows any Democratic challengers will probably want to remind voters about hanging chads and foggy definitions of voter intent. But, "I'm looking forward to the campaign," Ms. Harris emphatically declared.
She will run in the 13th District, a Republican stronghold around her hometown, Sarasota. The seat is held by Representative Dan Miller, a Republican who has said he will not seek another term.
Though political experts say Ms. Harris, 44, is almost certain to win the race in a district where Mr. Miller ran unchallenged in his last two elections, the new candidate said she is leaving nothing to chance.
"I'm not going to take anything for granted," Ms. Harris said in an interview here today. "I'm going to work door-to-door, I'm going to have town hall meetings, we're going to have issue groups, we're going to have senior groups that will focus on strengthening our national security."
Already, though, the Florida Democratic Party is seeking opponents to try to thwart Ms. Harris's hopes.
"She's been positioning herself to get in this race for a long time," said Bob Poe, chairman of the state Democratic Party. "We're glad she's doing it. She will excite Democrats more than anything we could do in that race.
"She will increase our turnout numbers substantially just by being in the race." 
Ms. Harris starts the race with several advantages. The 13th district votes solidly Republican, and for better or worse, she has national name recognition. She is also likely to have a fairly easy time with fund-raising, in part because, while her rulings during the recount on absentee ballots and late election returns were criticized as partisan by Democrats, they won her big points with the Republican Party.
Additionally, because of the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, the Democrats may have trouble making an issue of her role in the presidential campaign, given the huge public support for President Bush.
"If the president's popularity is sustained, it will help her," said Lance de Haven-Smith, a political science professor at Florida State University. "Right now, the circumstances are as good as they could get for her."
The wealthy granddaughter of a Florida citrus baron, Ms. Harris represented Sarasota in the State Senate from 1994 until 1998, when she was elected secretary of state, making her the state's top election official.
As secretary of state, she has been an advocate for the arts and has worked to expand Florida's involvement in international commerce, though many Democratic legislators have criticized her for what they said was an unnecessarily lavish foreign travel budget. As a state senator, she headed the commerce and economic development committee.
Now, Ms. Harris said, she is hoping to expand upon her record of public service in Congress. "I get to come home and I'm really eager to do that, but I have a chance now to focus on federal issues." Although she had all but made up her mind to run well before the terrorist attacks on the United States last month, Ms. Harris said the assaults reinforced for her the need for all Americans to serve the country.
For most Americans, she said, "now more than ever we're just completely committed to making a difference. We can't all put on a uniform but this is a way I can fight for my country."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Katherine Harris yesterday at an interview in Sarasota, Fla. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BALLOTS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); FUNDRAISING (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SARASOTA, FL, USA (88%) FLORIDA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



88 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: SAFETY AND LIBERTY; 
Plan to Expand U.S. Powers Alarming Some in Colorado

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN

DATELINE: COLORADO SPRINGS, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
The people who live under the formidable jaw of Pikes Peak like their churches, houses and cars big, and their government small. They send a steady flow of Republicans east, and do not expect much to come west, unless it is tax cuts or farm subsidies.
 So to many it has come as a surprise, bordering on outrage, that a government thought to be safely controlled by like-minded conservatives is trying to expand the power and size of the federal policing authority, increase surveillance and wiretapping powers, even consider proposals for national identification cards. 
 "Here it comes -- our government trying to take away freedoms again in the name of a national emergency," said Ted Adamovich, a 53-year-old resident of Colorado Springs. "They can put a little more surveillance in airports, but beyond that -- no. Let them try to make me sign up for a national ID card. I dare them." 
Mr. Adamovich says he bleeds red, white and blue, and has been consistently loyal to one party. "I'm Republican, for now," he said. "But if they push this stuff, who knows where I'll end up."
His warning was echoed throughout the cradle of New West Republicanism, where it is almost as hard to find a liberal as it is a slice of street-side pizza. To hear some people talk, Janet Reno is still attorney general and Bill Clinton remains president.
"Some of this stuff they're proposing reminds me of a police state," said Bob Kosser, a member of the National Rifle Association, a Republican and an Air Force veteran who lives in this booming, conservative city along the Front Range.
"Cameras, wiretapping, e-mail surveillance," Mr. Kosser counted off, wearing a T-shirt featuring an embroidered American flag. "Are they going to be asking us to show our papers everywhere were go, like the Germans did?"
After the Oklahoma City bombing in 1995, Mr. Clinton proposed expanding the reach of government wiretaps and giving authorities power to trace gun powder from explosives. But a storm of opposition that blew in from the Rocky Mountain West and the South helped to kill the measures.
After the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the Bush administration quickly put forward antiterrorism legislation to give the government more authority to seize people's assets, detain immigrants longer between court appearances, conduct broader wiretapping and other surveillance and to subpoena e-mail correspondence.
A national ID card was not part of the package the administration requested, but some members of Congress raised it as a possibility in the days the antiterrorist plan was being assembled.
Many leading Republicans, including Westerners like Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, favored the plan the administration introduced, and some called for even stricter measures. But Republican and Democratic negotiators in Congress have scaled back some of what the administration sought, deciding to make the wiretap provision temporary, for example. 
Still, the train of expanded government authority has run into the very people who helped to put many Republicans in power over the last decade -- strong gun supporters and former independents with a Western feistiness. They have been joined, for the moment, by allies from a distant and unlikely camp: liberals like Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, and the American Civil Liberties Union.
"My position, and the position of most pro-gun organizations, is that it is not a crime thing, it's a freedom issue," said Tony Fabian, president of the Colorado State Shooting Association, which is the state affiliate of the National Rifle Association.
"Any time the government is looking seriously at taking measures that roll back our freedoms as Americans -- whether it's guns, communications or transportation -- there needs to be very careful, cautious and measured evaluation," Mr. Fabian said.
The National Rifle Association, while expressing concerns that some provisions of the antiterrorist bill could be used by other administrations against gun owners, said it did not oppose the measure.
"As written, we don't see anything in the bill that goes to gun ownership," said Jim Baker, chief lobbyist for the N.R.A. "The way we read it, it's all tied into terrorist acts."
In interviews conducted randomly in Colorado, people seemed particularly concerned about the prospect of more surveillance. "I don't mind profiling as long as they don't do it on average people," said Kory Birge, a high school senior touring the Professional Rodeo Hall of Fame here. "But on the surveillance, I don't want it to get like London, where they have cameras everywhere."
Expanding the federal government's reach -- through the establishment of a new home defense agency, increased federal involvement in airport security and bailouts for faltering sectors of the economy -- has also struck a nerve among many Westerners. They said they thought the era of big government was over when Mr. Clinton declared it dead.
But the mood across the nation, according to several recent polls, shows that antigovernment sentiments have ebbed considerably. Not since 1966 has such a large majority -- more than 60 percent in several polls -- said that they trusted the government to do the right thing most of the time.
And here in Colorado, plenty of people say the government should take whatever security steps are needed to curb terrorism, even if it means a loss of civil liberties.
"I don't mind the stepped-up surveillance as long as they keep it in certain places, and don't try to come into the home with it," said Chuck Rice, 55, of Colorado Springs.
While most of the attention has focused on airport security, people here have started to voice concerns about the expanded federal authority.
"Just in the last few days, we've been hearing from a lot of people in the district who wonder what this bill means to them," said Sarah Shelden, a spokeswoman for Representative Joel Hefley, a Republican whose district includes Colorado Springs.
"Surveillance is a very big deal in our district," Ms. Shelden added. "People are concerned about Big Brother, that feeling that somebody might be watching them. It's just not the way they are used to living." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL IDENTITY CARDS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); WIRETAPPING (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATION (75%); INTERNET PRIVACY (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TAX LAW (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); SUBPOENAS (69%); BOMBINGS (68%); TERRORISM (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (66%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); AIR FORCES (63%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (57%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (73%); ORRIN HATCH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO SPRINGS, CO, USA (90%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%) ROCKY MOUNTAINS (93%); COLORADO, USA (92%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



89 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: The Dwindling Power of Rate Cuts 

 BODY:
Yesterday the Federal Reserve lowered interest rates for the ninth time this year. The federal funds rate, the key tool of monetary policy, is now 2.5 percent -- below the level of inflation. The Fed was hoping it would buoy investor and consumer confidence, and given the markets' current psychology, it probably had little choice. The stock market did respond well to the move. 
 Still, it is becoming clear that the nation's economic woes are not going to be fixed simply by continual rate-cutting. The attacks of Sept. 11 caught the Fed at just the wrong time. Under the leadership of Alan Greenspan, it had slashed rates by three and a half percentage points between January and August in an attempt to juice up a sagging economy. The effects of rate cuts take a while to kick in, and the nation should have been starting to feel their influence right now. But the terrorist attacks took a big, one-time bite out of the economy that lower lending rates cannot fully address. Quick but careful action from Congress and the Bush administration is going to have to do the rest. 
 Cuts in the short-term federal lending rate can help businesses offer consumers easier credit, but they cannot make businesses invest in growth when sales are down, or make consumers suddenly worried about their jobs and portfolios decide to go shopping. Only intelligently targeted government spending -- or, to a lesser extent, broad-based temporary tax cuts -- can stimulate purchasing.
Cutting the federal funds rate also cannot lower long-term interest rates if the markets have no confidence in the stability of the federal budget. Worries that the Bush tax cut would aggravate future deficits are one reason that long-term rates stayed stubbornly high for much of this year, although they have fallen since the terrorist attack pushed a recovery further into the future.
Markets have been looking to the Fed's announcements for soothing words of reassurance -- the perception, if not the reality, of a guaranteed safety net. Had the Fed not cut rates again, markets would have slumped and faith in the Fed's commitment to keep pumping up the economy would have dwindled. So the rate cut made some sense, but it will hardly be enough by itself.
Mr. Greenspan seems to believe that monetary policy changes may be sufficient to guarantee a recovery. Though he endorsed President Bush's irresponsible tax cuts earlier in the year, he has stopped short of recommending a fiscal stimulus now. Meanwhile, the Fed is running out of room. If it raises rates anytime soon, markets will react with fury. But there is a limit to how low short-term rates can go, and the Fed may want to save its remaining ability to maneuver for a time when cuts will have more impact. 
Mr. Greenspan might have saved the country from at least some of its current problems if he had not thrown his substantial influence behind the Bush tax-cut plan, which drastically reduced government revenues over the long run while providing little in the way of stimulus right now. Perhaps that is the reason he is counseling the government to go slowly on any economic stimulus package. But the nation's economic problems require more help than his own monetary tools can provide. It is time for Congress and the president to act, and for Mr. Greenspan to concentrate on his own brief. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TERRORISM (75%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



90 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 946 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Market Is Faced With Incomplete Trades 

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
Even though many problems have been cleared up since the terrorist attacks, the Treasury market is still faced with billions of dollars of incomplete trades.
 Traders say one result is some short-term financial pain for big investors, an unwillingness to trade in part of the market and some difficulty for investors who want to offset some risk by hedging with Treasury securities. 
 Major dealers in the Treasury market, officials of the Bond Market Association and regulators from the Federal Reserve and the Securities and Exchange Commission have had regular conference calls to discuss the issue.
"There is something going on," said James R. Capra, president of Capra Asset Management in Rye, N.Y., and the head of an advisory committee to the United States Treasury. 
The incomplete trades are known as fails in the bond market. Fails average about $100 million a day, a tiny amount in a market where billions of dollars change hands quickly. Traders and officials agree that the affected volume is now in the billions of dollars.
Despite the name, a fail does not mean that one party to a trade has been unable to pay cash for securities bought or deliver securities sold, traders said. Both parties agree that a trade was made in most of the current cases, but they have simply been unable to complete it.
While these trades do not affect retail investors, they are causing at least temporary problems for large dealers and institutional investors, who expect eventually to complete the trades.
Immediately after the attacks, there were many settlement and clearing problems in the Treasury market, including some related to damage to a major clearing bank, Bank of New York. There were also billions of dollars of trades made on Sept. 10 and the morning of Sept. 11 that had to be settled even though telephone connections were disrupted and many of the participants were not in business or were operating at less then full capacity.
Three weeks later, many of those trades have not been settled, traders now say. As the volume picked up in the days after trading resumed on Sept. 13, more failures began popping up. "If fails do not clear up and I am doing new trades, it just adds to the problem," said a trader at a major firm who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
"I am seeing marginal increases in the fails numbers," he added. "It is not huge increases."
The effect is showing up in what is called the repo market, where Treasury securities are borrowed and lent. The repo market is crucial to the operation of the Treasury market because it provides the money the dealers need to pay for the securities they have bought and, therefore, helps keep trading running smoothly. The dealers use the securities they have bought as collateral for loans of cash and agree to repurchase the securities at a set date. Hence the bond market jargon, repo market.
The shortage of securities for use as collateral could be making it hard to conduct normal hedging against risk. When dealers buy corporate securities, especially a new issue, they often sell Treasury securities as a hedge against a decline in the price of the corporate securities. But they need to borrow Treasury securities to do this.
It appears that the main reason for the failure to complete trades is a shortage of some Treasury securities, including two-year, five-year and 10-year notes, traders and officials said. This means there are not enough securities to be delivered to complete trades.
This view is supported by the fact that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York has been pumping billions of dollars of these securities into the market in the last few weeks. While the average amount of such lending by the Fed was less than $1.5 billion a day in the first and second quarters of this year, the daily average has exceeded $8.5 billion in the last seven days.
The reasons for the shortage, while difficult to pinpoint exactly, include a surge in demand for these notes as a safe investment, a reluctance by several foreign central banks to lend them recently and the end of the third quarter, which deterred investors from entering into such trades.
In addition, bond trading has picked up, and the Treasury market has tried to settle trades in one day rather then the temporary three-day and five-day settlement used right after the attacks.
The president of the Bond Market Association, Micah Green, said that clearance and settlement operations damaged in the terrorist attack were operating close to normal and were not a reason for the incomplete trades.
"While the system is still dealing with a diminishing backlog of unreconciled trades, the current phenomenon of fails in the repo market does not appear to be caused by operational glitches in the clearance and settlement process," he said.
Because of the rate of fails, said one trader who insisted on anonymity, dealers are reluctant to use their securities as collateral. They are worried that they might not have securities delivered to them from other trades they have made, he explained. Investors who have Treasury securities they could use as collateral for borrowing also appear reluctant, although the borrowing terms are very favorable.
The apparent unwillingness to lend securities in the repo market has driven the cost of short-term borrowing using Treasury securities as collateral to near zero. The rate for borrowing with Treasury securities as collateral until the middle of February is about 1 percent. Normally, the rate would be close to the federal funds rate, which is the overnight rate for loans between banks and the Federal Reserve's target interest rate. Yesterday, Fed policy makers cut that rate to 2.5 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOND MARKETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); TERRORISM (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); SECURITIES LAW (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONFERENCE CALLS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (70%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



91 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 126 words

HEADLINE: The Next Moves in a Shadow War 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "From the Outside, Former Presidents Lend the Support of Insiders" (news article, Sept. 28):
 Before going to war, President Bush should send our former presidents individually on missions to Iraq, Iran, Syria and Libya or Sudan. 
 These missions should emphasize our determination to track down Osama bin Laden and to destroy his organization and other terrorist groups; ask for the countries' cooperation in the war on terrorism; offer economic cooperation if these countries join the war on terrorism; and make clear that the United States will regard any regime that aids or harbors terrorists to be an enemy and that we will wage war against that regime with all of our military might.

RICHARD VALERIANI
Sherman, Conn., Sept. 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); WAR & CONFLICT (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRIA (92%); IRAQ (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



92 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Fed Cuts Its Benchmark Rate To 2.5%, Hitting 39-Year Low 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve cut its benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point today to the lowest level in 39 years, continuing its effort to pump some vigor back into an economy that shows all the signs of having lapsed into recession.
 With each day bringing additional evidence that the yearlong deterioration in the economy has intensified since the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, the White House and Congress also stepped up their efforts to settle on an economic recovery plan. 
 President Bush said he and the leaders of the two parties in Congress had agreed in general terms on the need for a package of tax cuts and spending increases intended to put more money in the hands of consumers, encourage investment by businesses and provide additional aid to people who have lost jobs.
But Democrats and Republicans continued to express different views of how to achieve those goals, suggesting that it will take considerable negotiation to reach a deal and get a stimulus package through Congress.
Congress and the White House also came to a final agreement today on a $686 billion package of routine spending bills for the new fiscal year, $25 billion higher than Mr. Bush had proposed last spring. 
Citing the aftereffects of the terrorist attacks, the Fed cut its federal funds target rate on overnight loans among banks to 2.5 percent from 3 percent, putting the rate at its lowest level since 1962. 
It was the second half-point rate cut by the Fed since Sept. 11 and the ninth time the Fed has cut rates this year. The reduction of four percentage points in the federal funds rate in nine months, from 6.5 percent at the beginning of the year, is the most aggressive cutting of official interest rates since 1985 and one of the most pronounced on record.
The Fed also cut its discount rate on loans to banks from the Federal Reserve system to 2 percent from 2.5 percent.
"The terrorist attacks have significantly heightened uncertainty in an economy that was already weak," the Fed said in the statement announcing its decision. "Business and household spending as a consequence are being further damped."
The Fed said the economy's underlying strengths should become apparent again once the "unusual forces" set in motion by the attacks begin to recede. But the statement offered little in the way of immediate reassurance, and signaled that the Fed was likely to cut rates further in coming months.
Stock prices fell slightly after the Fed announced the rate cut around 2:15 this afternoon, then rose. The Dow Jones industrial average finished at 8,950.59, up 113.76 points for the day.
The Fed's action was intended to encourage economic activity by reducing borrowing costs. Banks immediately began cutting their prime lending rate from 6 percent to 5.5 percent, a step that will translate into lower rates on some home equity, automobile, credit card and small- business loans.
At the same time, though, rates paid on savings accounts have also fallen to their lowest levels in years, cutting into the returns earned by many retirees.
Longer-term rates, including fixed-rate mortgages and rates paid by corporations to borrow in the bond market, are determined more by investors' perceptions of the economic outlook and the federal government's borrowing needs than by the Fed. As a result, they have not fallen as much as short-term rates this year, and are not likely to change as much because of the Fed's action today.
The federal funds rate is now approaching, or by some measures passing, the point where it is lower than inflation, a threshold the Fed usually crosses only during recessions. The so-called core personal consumption deflator, the measure of inflation most often cited by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, is running at a 1.6 percent annual rate, still lower than the federal funds rate. The better known core consumer price index is running at a 2.7 percent annual rate.
With rates already low and both businesses and consumers nervous about the outlook, analysts said the Fed's move would probably not lead to any immediate increase in spending and investment. But they said it would help ease the financial strain on households and corporate balance sheets as the economy goes through tough times.
Automakers, whose sales have taken a hit in recent weeks, are already offering buyers zero percentage rate financing on new cars. Companies are holding off on investment plans not because of the cost of borrowing money, but because they have more capacity than they can use.
"There are virtually no businesses or consumers who are not making investments or purchases now who will be induced to do so because interest rates are lowered from the already exceptionally low levels," said David Orr, chief economist at First Union Corporation. 
"What monetary policy can do," Mr. Orr said, "is cushion the downturn by reducing the interest cost of short-term floating rate debt, helping profit margins for companies and monthly payments for consumers."
The economy all but stalled during the spring. Economists said it almost certainly fell during the third quarter and would probably shrink again in the fourth quarter, which began on Monday. The most commonly used definition of a recession is two consecutive quarters in which economic output falls.
After meeting with the Congressional leadership at the White House this morning, Mr. Bush said that the stimulus package should not be so expensive that it clouds the long-term budget outlook. 
The prospect that the government might not be able to afford to carry out its plan to pay off much of the national debt could lead the bond market to keep long-term interest rates at higher levels, offsetting some or all of the benefits of a stimulus package.
"We've got to come together with a vision about how big the package ought to be to make sure we affect the economy in the short run in a positive way, but don't affect it in the long run in a negative way," Mr. Bush told reporters.
The House and Senate Budget Committees and the White House have sharply cut their projections of the federal budget surplus for the fiscal year that started on Monday to $52 billion, down from $176 billion a month ago. The new figure does not include the cost of any stimulus package beyond the $40 billion in emergency spending and the $15 billion airline bailout package passed last month. 
But there is no agreement yet whether to limit the size of any further stimulus package so that the government does not go into deficit spending this year. In addition to a stimulus package, Congress is likely to consider further spending increases for the military, increasing the chances that the entire surplus will be wiped out this year.
The agreement on the routine spending bills was completed after Mr. Bush agreed to send a letter to Congress stating that he supported that higher level of spending.
With pressure growing, the White House and the Congressional leadership were moving toward agreement on one component, extending unemployment benefits for laid-off workers for at least 13 weeks beyond the current 26-week limit. But they were sticking today to long-held ideological positions on other issues, especially on tax cuts.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Fed Responds Again"The Federal Reserve cut interest rates for the second time since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11. It was the ninth cut this year. The federal funds rate is now approaching, or by some measures passing, the point at which it is lower than inflation, a threshold the Fed usually crosses only during recessions. Graph tracks Inflation (Core* consumer price index, annual rate), Underlying inflation (Core* personal consumption expenditures deflator, annual rate), and Federal Funds Target Rate from 1985 through 2001. *Excludes food and energy(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; First Union)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TERRORISM (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); PRIME RATES (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); RECESSION (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); TAX LAW (71%) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



93 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: TOURISM; 
Travel Push Includes 10,000 Free Air Tickets

BYLINE:  By JAYSON BLAIR

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani presented short-term plans yesterday to boost New York City's reeling tourism industry. The program includes a plane ticket giveaway to 10,000 out-of-towners.
 In the early afternoon, Governor Pataki and the president of the city's convention and visitors' bureau, NYC & Company, Cristyne L. Nicholas, announced a $40 million "I Love New York" advertising campaign encouraging travelers to visit the city in the wake of the attack. 
 A couple of hours later, Ms. Nicholas was by Mayor Giuliani's side to announce a Delta Airlines program to give 10,000 free tickets to New York to people outside the region.
Minutes afterward, Ms. Nicholas rushed off to an interview on CNN as part of the concerted effort to soften the economic blow delivered by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
Preliminary numbers underscore the concern: a conservative estimate puts the dollar figure on lost tourism in the first two weeks after the attacks at $163.7 million. Other figures signified some progress, however. Occupancy rates at some hotels were creeping back to around 45 percent, Broadway shows were about 70 percent full and restaurants seemed more crowded over the weekend. But tourism and finance officials said that it was not much of a bump, given that October is historically the busiest tourism month for the city.
"It's like triage," Ms. Nicholas said. "You've got to stop the bleeding and then focus on the long term."
To that end, the tourism bureau has set up a committee to come up with short-term strategies. As a part of the effort, Delta has become the official airline of NYC & Company. It will give away the 10,000 tickets through radio stations in 50 markets. The airline is also waiving redemption fees for those who use frequent-flier miles to fly into Kennedy, La Guardia and Newark Airports.
The committee has also coordinated the relocation of five major conventions that were planned for other cities: the American Society of Travel Agents, which was scheduled for Nov. 4 to Nov. 7 in Seville, Spain; the American Society of Association Executives, which was scheduled for Nov. 16 to Nov. 18 in Buenos Aires; the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees' women's conference, which was scheduled for Nov. 16 to Nov. 18 in Boston; the Magazine Publishers of America conference, which was scheduled for Oct. 21 to Oct. 24 in Phoenix; and Meeting Planners International, which was scheduled for Colorado on Oct. 27.
The conferences are expected to bring nearly 5,000 people to the city, tourism officials said.
In addition, the mayor of Portland, Ore., Vera Katz, a former New Yorker, is bringing several flights full of Oregonians to the city over the Columbus Day weekend. Mayor Giuliani said he was encouraged that tourists had "started to come back this weekend."
Ms. Nicholas stressed that there was serious concern that if tourism did not pull out of its tailspin, thousands more jobs would be lost. She said her office has estimated that there have been 6,000 layoffs, mainly of hotel workers, as a result of the tourism decline following the attack.
And she said that if job losses increased on Broadway and in high-end hotels, the trend would spread to neighborhood bodegas, pizzerias and shoeshine shops. "We need people to go to Broadway, and we are using Broadway as the tool to fill the restaurants and other businesses."
She added: "You do have to be respectful and understanding of people in mourning. We lost a lot of people we knew and loved ourselves. But there is a point where you have to focus on the things that keep things going."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani presented a promotional plan to aid the city's flagging tourism industry, off $163.7 million since the attacks. (Alan Chin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LODGING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TRAVEL TICKETS (90%); TOURISM (90%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); MAYORS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); GOVERNORS (79%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (78%); TRAVEL AGENTS (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); COUNTIES (73%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (69%); WOMEN (68%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (56%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (71%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (71%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (71%)

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); OREGON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



94 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 816 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PRESIDENT; 
Revised Travel Plans Reflect Goals of Administration Under War Clouds

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
In the old presidency, the one that ended shortly before 9 a.m. on Sept. 11, George W. Bush had plans to build up his image as a world leader with a 10-day trip this month to Beijing, Shanghai, Tokyo and Seoul. There were also early preparations for a trip to India after the first of the year. Closer to home, Mr. Bush had a mid-September weekend planned at his Texas ranch.
 But like many other Americans, the president's travel plans have changed, but more drastically so. The leader of a nation at war cannot clear brush and fish while an American armada assembles in the Persian Gulf and Arabian Sea. He cannot be gone from Washington for long periods, because of both pressing business here and security concerns, and he particularly cannot be tied up in the ceremonial rituals of extended trips overseas. 
 But neither can he stay put at the White House while urging Americans to take a deep breath and start flying again.
As a result, White House officials say they have been forced to recreate the whole notion and purpose of presidential travel. Before the suicide hijackings, most of Mr. Bush's domestic trips were designed to push his legislative agenda. Now administration officials say the goal is to keep a sense of momentum even as the White House delays military action, and to project the image of a leader eager to get out and console Americans while still working hard at home on the crisis at hand. 
"There are definitely different considerations from a month ago," said Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director. "Much of the travel is based on the war effort, and to bringing attention to issues related to that." 
The president's trips are now fewer and shorter, although with far more secrecy and security preparations. Including a visit to Manhattan on Wednesday, he will have traveled outside of Washington only three times since Sept. 11 -- twice to New York City and once to Chicago. Each trip was for eight hours or less, and each had a specific purpose. Officials said more short trips were planned, about one a week, for memorial services and meetings with families of the dead.
But as is now the White House practice, officials will provide no further details, citing security. Most trips are announced only 48 hours in advance. Today, the White House gave less than an hour's notice that Mr. Bush would make a trip to Ronald Reagan National Airport to announce that it would reopen on Thursday.
On Wednesday in New York, the goals are to reassure traumatized schoolchildren and show concern about the economy. Mr. Bush will meet with pupils at Public School 130 in Chinatown, which was temporarily closed after the destruction of the World Trade Center. He will also participate in what the White House described as a round-table discussion with business leaders about the nation's sputtering finances.
In Chicago on Sept. 27, the goal was to announce new airline security measures and to exhort nervous Americans to travel again. In a visit to the trade center site on Sept. 14, the goal was not only to thank rescue workers but also to show New Yorkers that a president who had never shown much love for the city in fact cared.
"The biggest tool any White House has in its communications tool kit is the president's schedule and its events," said Ed Gillespie, a Republican strategist and former Bush campaign official. "All eyes are on Bush right now, and he drives message better and faster than anybody else."
For now, the president's foreign travel schedule has been heavily pruned. His 10-day trip to Asia has been cut back to Oct. 20 and 21 for the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation Leaders Meeting in Shanghai. His trip to India, which was only in the planning stages, is now doubtful. But the president still has plans to meet with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia at Mr. Bush's Texas ranch in mid-November. 
"When you're at war, somebody has to be at home minding the store," said Stephen Hess, a scholar of the presidency at the Brookings Institution in Washington. "Part of the reason for the travel abroad was a reassurance that we had a president who knew something about the world. The world now knows him, and has taken the mettle of the man. Those trips no longer have the symbolic significance that they were designed to have."
Richard C. Holbrooke, the American delegate to the United Nations in the Clinton administration, agreed that for now overseas travel was far less important for Mr. Bush. "He doesn't need to make foreign trips," Mr. Holbrooke said. "He needs to make sure that his administration speaks with one voice. It's more important for him to be the leader of a united nation at home than it is to travel abroad for personal relations. These trips are very cumbersome, and the ratio of substance to ceremony is pretty unimpressive. Furthermore, most of the foreign leaders are going to come to Washington to see him."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush at Reagan National Airport yesterday reaching for the hand of an airport employee, who will be returning to work soon. (Susana Raab for The New York Times); President Bush's motorcade filled the void yesterday at Ronald Reagan National Airport, but soon airlines will be reoperating at the airport, on the Potomac across from Washington. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (77%); CHILDREN (76%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); AIRPORTS (68%); HIJACKING (66%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); EAST CHINA (73%); INDIAN OCEAN (72%) UNITED STATES (98%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (73%); GULF STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



95 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: Drug Giant To Introduce Discount Plan For the Elderly 

BYLINE:  By MELODY PETERSEN and MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
GlaxoSmithKline, the second-largest drug maker, plans to announce today that it is creating a national discount program for low-income elderly people who lack prescription drug coverage, reducing the price of its drugs by 25 percent or more.
 Under the program, millions of elderly people would qualify to receive an orange-colored card that could be shown at most pharmacies to receive discounts on all the company's medicines sold outside hospitals, including Avandia for diabetes, Paxil for depression, and Flovent for asthma, executives said. 
 Jean-Pierre Garnier, GlaxoSmithKline's chief executive, said the company wanted to help elderly customers who cannot afford prescription drug coverage and who do not qualify for government programs like Medicaid. Many of the elderly begin to take the company's drugs for chronic illnesses like diabetes or heart disease, he said, but stop after a few months because they cannot afford them. 
"It is a shame some patients can't get the full benefits of our drugs for economic reasons," Mr. Garnier said. "We are trying to close the gap."
The discount program will also give GlaxoSmithKline, which is based in Britain, a marketing boost. For millions of patients, GlaxoSmithKline's drugs may now be cheaper than similar brand-name medicines sold by competitors like Pfizer, Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb.
"I do believe some companies will follow us," Mr. Garnier said.
The company is unveiling its new discount program at a time when drug costs have become a potent political issue for politicians in Washington and across the country. For several years, Congress and the White House, under Presidents Clinton and Bush, have been working on legislation to add drug benefits to Medicare, the federal health insurance program for people who are elderly or disabled. 
The drug companies, including GlaxoSmithKline, have been pushing for their own version of a drug benefit -- one run by private companies under the auspices of the government -- in part because it would help decrease criticism of drug prices by advocates for the elderly. 
For now, Congress has delayed debate on a prescription drug benefit while it works on legislation responding to the terrorist attacks. 
Mr. Garnier said that the discount program, which will be announced today in Washington, would help low- income elderly people until a Medicare drug benefit could be passed.
Several advocates for the elderly welcomed GlaxoSmithKline's price cuts, but said they might make little difference to most elderly people living on fixed incomes.
GlaxoSmithKline's medicines accounted for only about 6 percent of the prescriptions recommended by doctors last year to patients 65 or older, according to IMS Health. And even with the company's new discount, the drugs may still be out of reach for many of the uninsured. 
For example, a month's supply of Avandia, GlaxoSmithKline's diabetes drug, sells for $152 at a pharmacy in upstate New York, where drugstores have to contend with low-priced competition from Canada. With the discount, the drug would cost about $114. That is about 5 percent of the maximum monthly income a patient would be allowed to make and still qualify for GlaxoSmithKline's program. And many elderly patients need to take several drugs every day. 
"This is as much a public relations effort on the part of Glaxo as anything," said Ron Pollack, the executive director of Families USA, a non-profit organization that works toward affordable health care. "The numbers of people who will get relief is likely to be very small."
GlaxoSmithKline was one of the first big pharmaceutical companies to discount its AIDS drugs in Africa after advocates there criticized drug prices and governments contemplated making copycat versions of patented drugs. Most companies that make AIDS medicines quickly offered similar discounts.
But it is not clear whether other drug companies will follow GlaxoSmithKline's new program. 
Pfizer, the nation's largest drug company, said yesterday that it would watch what happened with GlaxoSmithKline. Bristol-Myers Squibb said it was considering adding new discount programs to some of the more limited plans it already offered, but said it could not give details. Merck & Company said it did not know enough about the GlaxoSmithKline program to comment.
To qualify for the program, which the company is calling the Orange Card, consumers must be 65 or over and have annual incomes at or below 300 percent of the federal poverty level, which is $26,000 for an individual or $35,000 for a couple. In addition, eligible people cannot have prescription drug coverage through a private insurance plan or qualify for a public plan like Medicaid. Disabled people of any age who are enrolled in the Medicare program will qualify if they meet the other requirements. The company said 11 million people could qualify.
GlaxoSmithKline said that it was guaranteeing that the elderly would get discounts equal to 25 percent of the price charged to wholesalers, which is known in the industry as the wholesale acquisition price. The company said it had asked pharmacies to provide an additional discount, but those negotiations are continuing.
The company said that it believed elderly people would ultimately get discounts of 30 percent or more off the prices they would have otherwise paid at the pharmacy.
Elderly people will begin getting discounts on Jan. 1, but they can sign up for the program now.
There are already a number of discount prescription drug cards available, but many of them require annual fees, and some studies have found that they do not generate significant savings for consumers. Many of the cards also require most of the discount to come out of pharmacies' pockets rather than from the drug manufacturers. 
In July, President Bush announced that the government would endorse cards issued by private companies to help Medicare beneficiaries pool their purchasing power and get discounts on prescription drugs. But the administration's plan has been temporarily blocked by a lawsuit filed by hundreds of pharmacies, which say it will hurt their businesses financially.
Barrett Toan, chairman and chief executive of Express Scripts, a drug plan manager that will administer the Orange Card program, said GlaxoSmithKline, and not pharmacies, would cover most of the cost of the new program. 
Kenneth S. Abramowitz, a managing director and a specialist in health care at the Carlyle Group, an investment firm, called GlaxoSmithKline's discount program "an innovative response to the political and economic environment." 
Mr. Abramowitz said that if the company "doubled the consumption of its products in return for a 25 percent discount, they would still be 50 percent ahead."
Ira S. Loss, a health care researcher at Washington Analysis, which does research for financial institutions, said GlaxoSmithKline's discount program was a small step toward helping people without insurance. "It's not half a loaf but a couple slices," he said.
"The real impact is a question mark," Mr. Loss said. "The target population for these drugs cannot pay for them at 100 percent or at 75 percent" of the retail price.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Lowering Drug Costs"GlaxoSmithKline will offer a discount on prescription drugs for low-income Americans aged 65 and over. Here are the company's top-selling prescription drugs to that age group, along with a sample price before a discount for a 30-day supply. Prices vary from store to store; these prices are from a pharmacy in Middleport, N.Y. DRUG (USE): Avandia (diabetes)SAMPLE PRICE: $83 (4 mg)SALES (millions): $899.6 DRUG (USE): Flovent (asthma)SAMPLE PRICE: 73 (110 mg)SALES (millions): 836.9 DRUG (USE): Seravent (allergy)SAMPLE PRICE: 80SALES (millions): 563.6 DRUG (USE): Lanoxin (heart)SAMPLE PRICE: 9SALES (millions): 124.7 DRUG (USE): Dyazide (blood pressure)SAMPLE PRICE: 16SALES (millions): 27.9(Sources: IMS Health sales ; Middleport Family Health Center prices )(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); SENIOR CITIZENS (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); AGING (90%); DRUG PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); MEDICARE (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); DIABETES (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (78%); MATURE MARKET (78%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); PHARMACIES (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (77%); DISABLED PERSONS (75%); ASTHMA (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); HEART DISEASE (68%); MEDICAID (58%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (92%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (90%); PFIZER INC (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GLAXOSMITHKLINE 

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (92%); GSK (LSE) (92%); BIOC (EGX) (92%); BMY (NYSE) (90%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (50%) SIC5122 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES; 

PERSON: JEAN-PIERRE GARNIER (79%) PETERSEN, MELODY; FREUDENHEIM, MILT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



96 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 3, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 146 words

HEADLINE: Can New York Recover Without Giuliani? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Fred Siegel ("Making the Most of Giuliani," Op-Ed, Oct. 2) calls on New Yorkers to take advantage of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's recent celebrity in order to maximize the financial contributions to New York City's recovery. This is an excellent idea, but his suggestion that the mayor stay in office past his lawful term to ease this recovery is misguided. 
 Why should we assume that the new mayor will be incompetent to govern and unable to build an effective administration, even temporarily? 
 The subversion of the normal democratic process is always the wrong choice, no matter the circumstances of the moment, no matter how deep the crisis. Nothing is more important for the city and the country than the orderly and lawful transfer of authority. It is a prerequisite for our recovery, both spiritually and economically.

PAUL H. HEBNER
New York, Oct. 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MAYORS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001 



97 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Subdivided and Licensed, There's No Place Like Art 

BYLINE:  By JOHN LELAND 

DATELINE: VALLEJO, Calif. 

 BODY:
CALIFORNIA landscapes have long served as laboratories for social experiments, from the visionary to the flaky. On Sept. 8, several hundred people gathered on former ranchland 35 miles northeast of San Francisco to see the latest chapter, writ in cute cottages and mock-cobblestone driveways. The housing development, still under construction, is called the Village, a Thomas Kinkade Community. With narrow streets, stone pillars and picket fences, it evokes a nostalgic homeyness, imposed on Vallejo's bare, sunburned hills.
 But its ambitions are far from old-fashioned. The 101-home gated community is a licensed product, modeled on the paintings of a Northern California artist named Thomas Kinkade and marketed under his imprimatur. A new twist on sprawl, "The Village," as the developer calls it, is billed as the first community based on the work of a single artist. 
 In the kitchen of one of four model homes, Mr. Kinkade, 43, casually placed the village and his role into context. He wore black jeans, a plaid shirt and a goatee. "When Walt looked out over his citrus grove and envisioned Disneyland, it wasn't real to him yet," Mr. Kinkade said, inviting a comparison he would return to throughout the morning. "When he walked down Main Street it became real. So this is that moment for me." 
Mr. Kinkade is not a looming figure in the museums or art schools of America. His paintings, of pretty houses in pretty landscapes, sell mainly in mall galleries dedicated to his work, and have the burnished resonance of easy listening music. Yet in the last four years, his prints and ancillary products -- from greeting cards to decorative plates -- have generated more than $450 million in revenues for the Media Arts Group, the Morgan Hill, Calif., company he formed to market his work. The company says one in every 20 American homes has a Kinkade work displayed, at prices ranging from a few dollars to $10,000 for limited-edition canvas lithographs. 
On this Saturday, Bruce and Kathy Breitler joined the crowd touring a Tudor-style home that included a stone tollhouse. Some had come to the open house out of curiosity, some to shop or to hear Mr. Kinkade speak. The houses, built by Taylor Woodrow Homes, a London-based developer, start at $425,000.
Like many of Mr. Kinkade's collectors, the Breitlers are middle class and educated but had never acquired art before. "We bought 'Spring Gate' for $3,000, and now it's worth $15,000," said Mrs. Breitler, 49, a speech pathologist. (All of Mr. Kinkade's prints are available in different sizes and price ranges; in the most expensive editions, he adds highlights himself and includes a trace of his DNA in the signature.) Now the Breitlers seek out Kinkade galleries wherever they travel. 
They said they were drawn to Mr. Kinkade not just for his pictures but for the values they saw in them. "Religion is not that important to us," said Mr. Breitler, 59, a school superintendent. "But it's nice to see he comes from a religious perspective and talks about family." 
The outlines of Mr. Kinkade's faith and life are familiar to his audience from several autobiographies as well as from regular promotional appearances at his galleries.
The son of a single mother, Mr. Kinkade grew up in the Northern California town of Placerville, by his account poor and drawn to art. After short stints at the University of California at Berkeley and the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, he landed briefly in Hollywood, painting backgrounds for an animated film called "Fire and Ice," directed by Ralph Bakshi. 
In the 1980's he had two life-shaping experiences. The first was becoming a born-again Christian. The second involved his direction in the art world. Perturbed by what he saw as the elitism of modern art, which he eventually blamed for everything from "South Park" to gangsta rap, he decided to bypass the gallery system and go retail, publishing cheap prints of his work and, later, opening his own galleries.
Mr. Kinkade, a big man, speaks in big, polished paragraphs. His paintings, he said, while not overtly Christian are intended as ministry. "I view art as an inspirational tool," he said. "People who put my paintings on their walls are putting their values on their walls: faith, family, home, a simpler way of living, the beauty of nature, quiet, tranquillity, peace, joy, hope. They beckon you into this world that provides an alternative to your nightly news broadcast. It's compelling to people. People are reminded that it's not all ugliness in the world."
In the language of his company, Mr. Kinkade is more than a painter. He is an "art-based lifestyle brand," traded on the New York Stock Exchange. As his paintings caught on, spreading beyond Northern California, he expanded his business to 357 galleries and a factory where a staff of painters add highlights to his lesser editions. He does not sell his originals.
In the late 1990's, Mr. Kinkade began to accessorize his vision of the simple life. He licensed his name to Avon, La-Z-Boy, Kincaid Furniture, Imperial Wall Coverings and dozens of other companies to produce Thomas Kinkade lines of home furnishings. All that was left, finally, was to create a town to put the stuff in. "We finally got to the point where we had to build the homes now," said Eric Kuskey of Creative Brands Group, the company that licenses Mr. Kinkade's name. Mr. Kuskey gestured to Kinkade products filling the model homes, among them furniture and computer screen savers. Even the stuffed animals, glued down to prevent theft, belonged to Kinkade lines. Though the developer does not sell the furniture, the tollhouse by the entry gate will remain a gallery for the painter's prints and gifts. Mr. Kuskey predicted that half the home buyers would come from Media Arts Group's mailing lists. 
Along Summer Gate Avenue, as the open house crowds took long detours into the free-food tent, Keith McCoy strolled in the pleasant sunshine. Mr. McCoy, who helped plan and design the development, is not overly partial to Mr. Kinkade's paintings. "I'd go more Monet or classic," he said. "This was more of a branding thing." Yet he was not one to argue with success. He said that 1,000 people had expressed interest in the village before the paint had dried on the first house.
To design the community, Taylor Woodrow Homes hired William Hezmalhalch Architects of Irvine, Calif., and sent them several Kinkade paintings, for tone more than architectural specifics. Mr. Kinkade later had approval over the marketing materials but did not contribute to the designs. 
Mr. Kinkade likened the process to his other licensing deals. "It's taking the paintings as a starting point and then creating another world of the imagination," he said. "We've got a series of novels being written based on my paintings. That's kind of the tail wagging the dog: you start out with the cover of the book, then you write a story to go around it.
"This is in a way what happened. I wasn't commissioned to go out and create paintings that would become a village. But I was doing paintings that celebrate home and family."
In the 13 minutes he granted for an interview, Mr. Kinkade used the word "family" 17 times. 
There is a disconnect between Mr. Kinkade's talk of community values and the village: it is a gated subdivision on a commuter strip, without shops, schools, businesses or houses of worship -- the pillars of the village life he espouses. "The truth is, this isn't a fully developed, self-contained community," he conceded. "It's a bridge community. You would find your church and services in other communities."
The brand identity, and the values Mr. Kinkade attaches to it, also heighten the insularity and uniformity that can imbue a gated community. The residents will be linked not just by their position behind the gate but also by the Kinkade brand.
The village is not the first attempt to build a Thomas Kinkade community. A developer in Oakland Township, Mich., built a model home based on Kinkade paintings, only to find that her area was not interested, said a local real estate agent.
Before the Taylor Woodrow deal, US Home, a national developer, struck a licensing deal to build a community that would take advantage of Mr. Kinkade's marketing strength.
"We looked at the auto industry and saw they were doing editions with Eddie Bauer interiors," said Sherman Haggerty, a division president of US Home. But when his company conducted focus groups, he said, "what they said they really wanted they wouldn't pay for." After a year and a half, the companies ended their agreement. 
How the village will survive the sinking economy, especially around Silicon Valley, remains to be seen. Media Arts Group's sales fell 6 percent in the fiscal year that ended March 31. The company's stock price has dropped to around $2 a share from a 1998 high of $24.25. Earlier this year, Mr. Kinkade, who owns 37 percent of the company's stock, withdrew a bid to take over the rest because he could not get financing.
"We've been hit but not as much as the economy as a whole," said Tony Thomopoulous, the chairman and interim chief executive officer. 
The village has drawn more interest than any previous Taylor Woodrow property, said Fran Leach, the marketing director, though the first offering of 28 houses has not sold out. Ms. Leach said the tragedy of Sept. 11 had not dimmed interest but had left buyers nervous, slower to commit. 
The developer hopes Mr. Kinkade's name and built-in market will prove an insurance policy against such a turndown, said Cheryl O'Connor, vice president for sales and marketing. His royalty on each house, she said, came to less than she would pay a real estate agent. 
"It's a total marketing gimmick -- I don't want to say gimmick -- a total marketing plan," Ms. O'Connor said.
Mr. McCoy said other developers were watching closely, some skeptically, some with an eye to follow suit. If the village weathers the tough market, look for the hills to sprout other branded communities. "I think you'll see Martha Stewart communities," he said. "Why not?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: COZY INC. -- Model houses in a gated community in Vallejo, Calif., right, were inspired by the paintings of Thomas Kinkade, above. His aesthetic is expressed in licensed art and home furnishings, below, that have generated $450 million in sales in four years. (Photographs by Peter DaSilva for The New York Times; left, Reagan Louie for The New York Times)(pg. F1); MAKE-BELIEVE -- "Summer Gate," above, by Thomas Kinkade, whose name helps sell La-Z-Boys, right, and gated homes, below.; KEY CLUB -- The village is not only a planned community but also a licensed product. Above, a decorative gate and tollhouse gallery. (Photographs by Reagan Louie for The New York Times)(pg. F11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAINTING (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (77%); MUSIC GENRES (64%); SPEECH THERAPY (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (56%); MUSIC (50%) HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ART 

PERSON: KINKADE, THOMAS; LELAND, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) VALLEJO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



98 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 5; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Off Broadway Finds Ways To Keep Shows Open 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN 

 BODY:
On a good week, many of New York City's hundreds of Off Broadway theaters struggle to make the rent, pay salaries and entice customers to travel to often out-of-the-way venues with less than comfortable seats. 
 In bad times like these, many theaters have been hit hard by a loss of income and attendance, but the scrappy determination that allows them to plow on in normal circumstances has them vowing to weather the post-Sept. 11 period and survive. 
 In some cases, they are better positioned to press on than Broadway shows, several of which were forced to fold without a fight. 
"These theaters have certainly been through trouble before and will be through trouble again," said Virginia P. Louloudes, the executive director of Alliance of Resident Theaters/New York, a support organization for the city's nonprofit theaters. "These people will do whatever it takes to get the show on." 
Nevertheless, Ms. Louloudes added, there is deep concern that with the bear market, the damaged New York economy and the financial drain on charitable organizations with a host of new priorities, Off Broadway will be in dire financial straits. 
"At some point, you need money to pay the rent, you need to pay your actors, you need to clean the theater, you need to hire someone to take the tickets," she said. "And if you don't have those revenues, it's going to be much more difficult to go on." 
As for audiences, however, Ms. Louloudes and others say, they will keep coming, as they proved in the weeks after the World Trade Center attacks. Off Broadway audiences are mostly made up of New Yorkers -- not tourists whose visits to the city have dropped off precipitously -- and are typically stalwart and devoted theatergoers. And its theaters are smaller than those on Broadway, making them easier to fill. Several companies sell tickets on a subscription basis, giving them a steady audience base. And they do not have Broadway's sometimes daunting ticket prices or pay scales.
So while shows are closing on Broadway, those Off Broadway have so far tried to adjust rather than buckle. "Bat Boy" which announced that it would close, is now planning to come back on Oct. 18 on a reduced performing schedule of five shows a week, down from eight. The musical "Tick, Tick . . . Boom!" -- which is on Jane Street in Greenwich Village and had to miss three performances after the terrorist attacks -- has also gone to a five-show week. "Rather than shutting down, we chose to keep the momentum going," Roy Gabay, the general manager, said. 
Both shows were helped by concessions from theatrical unions. Actors' Equity Association, which represents stage actors, is temporarily allowing Off Broadway producers to lay off actors for up to nine straight weeks (up to and including Thanksgiving week). During that period, the producers can reduce performances to as few as five a week. Actors will be paid one-eighth of their weekly salary for each performance.
The theaters are also engaging in self-help. The League of Off Broadway Theaters and Producers, their umbrella organization, is offering a 50-percent discount through the end of the month on tickets to participating Off Broadway shows. To be eligible, theatergoers must present ticket stubs from other participating Off Broadway shows that they have attended.
Meanwhile, from Access Theater at Broadway and White Street, which has an annual budget of $100,000, to the Roundabout Theater Company on West 42nd Street, which has a budget of $30 million, New York's more than 400 nonprofit theaters are hunkering down for the long haul, hoping that their audiences pull them through. 
"These audiences are by nature an adventurous, committed and interested group," said Mark Rossier, the director of development and marketing at the Alliance of Resident Theaters. "So they're going to continue to go."
That said, nonprofit theaters still face an uphill climb, particularly those below 14th Street. Many of those that own their buildings, have lost crucial income from renting out space.
"All of our major rentals for the fall have pulled out," said Jacqueline Christy, the artistic director of Access Theater, who started her theater company 11 years ago in an old fabric warehouse. "The big problem right now is how to pay the rent and keep the lights on."
Daniel Aukin, artistic director of the Soho Repertory Theater on Walker Street, said his theater, which develops new plays, expects to lose about $25,000 from rental cancellations and $10,000 in ticket sales.
Some of Soho Rep's donors -- whose contributions make up about a quarter of the theater's $280,000 budget -- have said they now can't come through on their financial commitments. "A number of people who write larger checks are unable to, based on the hit their own businesses have taken," Mr. Aukin said. 
Theaters across the board are bracing themselves for this drop-off in funds. "We were heading into a slow economy to begin with," said Todd Haimes, artistic director of the Roundabout. "Now it's hard to believe there won't be a significant impact on contributions."
Although attendance has been rising since Sept. 11, some people are still in staying-home mode, so theaters say that filling seats remains a concern. 
This situation was particularly true for the theaters near ground zero immediately after the disaster. Soho Rep is in an area that was closed to pedestrians, and its phone line was down. The theater decided to proceed with the opening last week of a workshop production, "Signals of Distress," adapted from the novel by Jim Crace. To get the word out, the theater established a temporary box office phone number and publicized the production through e-mail, phone calls and signs posted in the neighborhood. Soho Rep prepared to escort audience members from the police barricade at Canal Street to the theater, but that proved unnecessary; the barricades were down by opening night, and the performance sold out.
Ms. Christy of Access Theater mailed ticket buyers written permission to pass through the police barricade to get to the theater at Broadway and White Street. The police, she said, honored the notes. 
Because it needed the money, the company canceled a planned workshop of one-act plays to allow its current rental -- a one-woman show called "After the Storm" -- to extend its run. Whether the theater will be able to proceed with its season's two main productions is in doubt.
The Flea Theater on White Street was closed for two weeks after the attacks and lost about $800 a day on rental income and canceled performances. Erik Sniedze, the associate producer, said the company was trying to raise money to pay last month's rent.
At nonprofit theaters uptown, the effects were also profound. The Signature Theater Company on West 42nd Street is raising money in the lobby for a "Sept. 11 Fund" put together by New York Community Trust and the United Way. Saks Fifth Avenue is matching the first $20,000 of the theater's $40,000 goal. 
Signature's artistic director, James Houghton, said he is trying to provide a sense of community for the theater's regulars.
"The immediate goal is to just bring people together, and the theater can do that," Mr. Houghton said.
Indeed, many theater professionals said that offering places where people can seek company, comfort or distraction was reason enough to continue.
In looking ahead, the theater impresarios said that even at a time that called for national unity, part of their recovery will come from remaining contentious and contrary. "Our mission is to produce work that is provocative or even subversive," said Douglas Aibel, artistic director of the Vineyard Theater on West 15th Street. "If we produce more comforting or crowd-pleasing work, we will be captive once again to these savages who did this to us."
George C. Wolfe, producer at the Joseph Papp Public Theater on Lafayette Street, said it was important for playwrights not to second guess what audiences can handle in the wake of the tragedy. "I'm really very cautious about getting into any process of censoring or surrendering ambition or edge," Mr. Wolfe said, "because I think it's what makes this city great."
No matter how difficult things become, the theaters' founders and operators said they were determined not to go under. "This theater is my baby," Ms. Christy of Access Theater said. "So I'm not going to let it die." Mr. Wolfe added, "Even in Shakespeare's biggest tragedies there is always a character who comes on stage and says, 'We must go forward.' " 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Daniel Aukin of SoHo Rep and Jacqueline Christy of Access Theater. Ms. Christy sent ticket buyers permission to pass through police lines. (Alan Chin for The New York Times); (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (92%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CHARITIES (78%); LAYOFFS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (63%) THEATER; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: ALLIANCE OF RESIDENT THEATERS 

PERSON: POGREBIN, ROBIN; LOULOUDES, VIRGINIA P 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



99 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Circuits; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1803 words

HEADLINE: Securing the Lines Of a Wired Nation 

BYLINE:  By JOHN SCHWARTZ 

 BODY:
IN the hours of torment and confusion after the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, many people making phone calls to or from the affected cities encountered the grating "All circuits are busy" recording. E-mail messages, however, seemed to sail through the crisis to their destinations. The smooth traffic was hailed by many experts as testament to the underlying strength of the Internet. 
 But hold on just one nanosecond. Are we talking about the Internet, referred to by so many other experts as a famously vulnerable, fragile network that can be brought to its knees by college students in the Philippines or a teenager in Canada, with estimates of damage in the billions of dollars? 
 It is indeed the same Internet, ever a combination of flaky and robust. Fred Cohen, the computer security researcher who first applied the word "virus" to malicious software, said that the individual elements of the network were fragile but that the network over all was resilient. "It's easy to tear a piece of paper," he said. "Try tearing a phone book in half." Still, David J. Farber, a computer scientist and former chief technologist at the Federal Communications Commission, said that the Internet's success on Sept. 11 could largely be attributed to the fact that "nobody attacked it." 
Experts in the emerging field of cyberterrorism say that with such an inviting target, terrorists are bound to take up the hackers' wares. What will happen when an attacker with real resources and a deep desire to do harm grabs the keyboard?
It may not take long to find out, and the vulnerability may go far beyond Web sites or e-mail.
According to a report last week by the Institute for Security Technology Studies, founded last year at Dartmouth, "U.S. retaliatory strikes for the tragic Sept. 11 events may result in cyberattacks against the American electronic infrastructure." While such attacks may amount to no more than familiar nuisances -- like hackers' defacing Web pages or tying up sites by overwhelming them with traffic -- "the potential exists for much more devastating cyberattacks," the report said.
Those who watch trends in computer crime and terrorism say that the two are coming together with potentially catastrophic results. Richard A. Clarke, who will head cyberterrorism efforts for the Bush administration's Homeland Security Council, said in a speech last December that the government had to make cybersecurity a priority or face a "digital Pearl Harbor." 
In 1997, the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection noted that telephone networks and the Internet were increasingly the bonds of the world's economy, for everything from financial operations to the supply of water and power. 
Consequently, it said, "a computer can cause switches or valves to open and close, move funds from one account to another, or convey a military order almost as quickly over thousands of miles as it can from next door, and just as easily from a terrorist hideout as from an office cubicle or military command center." 
For Tom Marsh, who was the commission's chairman, the worst-case scenarios are nightmarish: a determined coalition of hackers, he said, could disrupt 911 service, air traffic control, the power-switching centers that move electricity around the country, rail networks and more. "It's a major undertaking," said Mr. Marsh, a retired Air Force general, "but it's not beyond the realm of possibility." The complexity of the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, he said, showed that "even terrorist organizations can conduct very well-organized and sophisticated attacks." 
"We said in our report we didn't foresee an electronic Pearl Harbor, and I still don't," he said. "But I do believe that as cybercrime progresses, over time the terrorists are going to get more and more interested in it and see it as a very possible opportunity to cause major disruption."
Those who have worked in cyberintelligence say that the attention to the subject is timely. "Up until the 11th, people like me would talk in terms of the growing threat of transnational attack -- the prospect of new forms of terrorism -- and the basic reaction was, 'Yeah, yeah, yeah, but that's theoretical,' " said Jeffrey A. Hunker, dean of the Heinz School of Public Policy and Management at Carnegie Mellon University and formerly the senior director for protection of critical infrastructure at the National Security Council.
Since the attacks, he said, it has become clear that "there are clearly transnational organizations that are incredibly capable of executing sophisticated operations and are enormously creative and innovative." That, in turn, "makes much more real the possibility of new techniques or new types of terrorist attacks," including cyberterror, he said. "We're sitting on a cyber time bomb," he said.
Some experts have warned, for example, that systems accessible to the Internet like power grids could be brought down by a determined hacker, though as Mr. Farber put it, "it's a lot easier to throw a hand grenade down the highway south of San Jose and take out a major power station" than to do so by modem. And most would put cyberattacks in a different category from the weapons of mass destruction associated with visions of catastrophic terrorism; these are not nuclear arms, nerve gas or germs. Instead, many experts now call them weapons of mass disruption. 
"People aren't going to be killing us with computers," Mr. Hunker said, "but our life may be hell because of computer attacks."
The likeliest use of the technology, he said, would be to complicate matters further after a real-world attack, a tactic he describes with the military phrase "force multiplier." That could involve planting false information on the Web to create a panic or taking down crucial computers in the financial or communications sectors. 
The ripple effects of the World Trade Center attacks on everything from the travel industry to supply chains in manufacturing show the potential for havoc. "Besides the fact of the horrendous loss of life, it was really an attack on the critical infrastructures," said Mary J. Culnan, a professor of management and information technology at Bentley College in Waltham, Mass., and a member of the presidential commission that issued the 1997 report.
The Clinton administration started the first major national effort to upgrade computer security in government and business against cybercrime and terrorist attack. President Bill Clinton issued an order in May 1998 creating the National Infrastructure Protection Center, a collaborative effort of law enforcement, military and intelligence organizations to shore up defenses against computer crime. The center also developed an information-sharing network with major industrial sectors. 
Such activities will presumably be brought under the umbrella of the new Homeland Defense Council that President Bush has appointed Gov. Tom Ridge of Pennsylvania to run. Mr. Clarke will oversee cyberdefense initiatives for the council as head of its Office of Cyber Security.
Michael Vatis, the head of the Dartmouth cybersecurity group and a former head of the National Infrastructure Protection Center, said the stereotype of computer intruders as thrill-seeking teenage loners was misleading. Talented intruders who are motivated -- and perhaps banding together with criminal or ideological motives -- can go far, he said, citing little-publicized attacks on business and Pentagon computer networks by hackers who may be linked to organized crime in Russia. The attacks, beginning in 1998, are the focus of a federal investigation. "The type of access they were able to gain," he said, and "the amount of information and the types of information they were getting means they could do lots of stuff to those systems," both purloining data and disrupting operations.
Even more dangerous than outsiders, potentially, are insiders with specialized knowledge, according to the 1997 report of the President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection. That report estimated that by this year 19 million people worldwide would have the skills to engage in malicious hacking and 1.3 million people would have advanced knowledge of the systems that control the nation's telecommunications infrastructure.
Whatever the nature of the attack, the tools are easy to acquire and the knowledge to use them even more so. A reasonably competent programmer who is willing to delve into the arcana of computer operating systems and networks can cobble together viruses or other destructive computer code from software posted online. Similarly, tools for examining computer systems for security holes and the programs that can be used to take advantage of them to gain unauthorized entry are also easy to find online, and computer vandals are happy to share their knowledge in Internet forums.
So what is to be done? Most of the measures that experts recommend, like keeping up with the latest antivirus software, using strong passwords to protect computers and networks and installing intrusion-detection software, are painfully obvious but still ignored by many businesses, government agencies and consumers. The Dartmouth report also recommends increasing protection at Web sites and keeping backups of their important data, with special attention to the potential for Web page defacement. 
That report also recommends vigilance, and appropriate software, to prevent or detect the surreptitious commandeering of computer systems for use in denial-of-service attacks. (A guide to the best security practices can be found at www.cert.org /security-improvement.)
Informal networks for intrusion detection are beginning to form among those who hope to find security in numbers. One such network, AirCert, has been developed by the CERT Coordination Center at Carnegie Mellon's Software Engineering Institute. The fledgling AirCert project places Internet-based security sensors on participating sites; those sensors automatically send data on intrusion attempts to a central CERT knowledge base that is able to analyze the information and share it quickly.
The idea has been suggested before. A network for intrusion detection in government computers, called Fidnet, was proposed late in the Clinton administration but never created because of assertions that the system might be used as a large-scale monitoring network for citizens' online communications. Government officials insist that was never the intention, but Mr. Vatis said that they did not make their case well.
Making that case may now be easier, but Professor Culnan, at Bentley College, said that mounting an effective deterrent to cyberterror was no small task. "It's a gigantic problem making this work," she said. "But at least we've started thinking about it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Richard A. Clarke, above, will oversee cyberdefense for the Bush administration. David J. Farber, a computer scientist, points to the Internet's vulnerability. (Associated Press); (Marty Katz)(pg. G8) Drawings (Joe Zeff for The New York Times) Chart: "Mounting a Defense: The Networked Home Front"Two networks in particular -- the telecommunications system and the Internet -- provide the connections through which many public agencies, utilities and crucial industries operate and communicate. An effective cyberdefense is essential, experts say, to protect functions ranging from emergecy services to oil production. Chart shows industries and utilities effected including: Telecommunications Network, Internet services, water supply, government services, transportation system, banking and finance, and energy supply.(Source: President's Commission on Critical Infrastructure Protection, 1997)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); CYBERTERRORISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CYBERCRIME (89%); TERRORISM (89%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); HIJACKING (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (77%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (76%); TRENDS (76%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); AIRLINES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); MISSING PERSONS (63%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (61%); POLITICS (60%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TRANSPORTATION; WATER; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BANKS AND BANKING; FINANCES; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; COMPUTER SECURITY; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: ;SCHWARTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



100 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1299 words

HEADLINE: THEATER REVIEW; 
Australia Growing Up, But in a Warped Mirror

BYLINE:  By BRUCE WEBER 

 BODY:
Australia is our distant, down-the-rabbit-hole cousin, a nation that is vaguely the geographical size and shape of our own, where they speak the same language (more or less), worship the gods of capitalism and democracy, cope with racial inequities and economic disparity, generally have the freedom and wherewithal to laugh at themselves and hold to a pride at being a people that raised itself up by its own bootstraps.
 Still, for most of us it looms as a strange place, representing a skewed version of our culture, a younger America that has been nurtured by the atmosphere on the other side of the world. The warped-mirror quality is the most piquing element of "Cloudstreet," a theatrical epic being presented through Sunday at the Harvey Theater of the Brooklyn Academy of Music. 
 The opening salvo of the academy's monthlong Next Wave Down Under festival, "Cloudstreet" is a mid-20th-century story of two very different families, the Pickleses and the Lambs, who out of desperation and serendipity end up sharing an enormous old house in Perth, on the west coast, which one character describes "as the most isolated country town in the world trying to be a city." 
And particularly in its first half, both the play (adapted by Nick Enright and Justin Monjo from a 1991 novel by Tim Winton) and the production (by Company B Belvoir from Sydney and Black Swan Theater from Perth, directed by Neil Armfield), achieve a rollicking momentum, hooking the audience with event-filled melodrama, well-defined if broad characters brought to life with idiosyncratic performances, and stagecraft that is both visually stirring and resourceful.
But at more than five hours long (including a dinner break and a second intermission), this production has more grandiose ambitions than merely entertaining the theatergoing tourist and doesn't come close to fulfilling them.
With the bravado of a national anthem, "Cloudstreet" spans more than two decades, from the 1940's through the 60's, a time when Australia emerged as a modern nation economically, began to develop a national identity and culture and became, two centuries after its colonization by Europeans, an inclusive democracy; its Aboriginal inhabitants were not able to vote until 1967.
Little of this is addressed directly in the play; rather, there is a dim awareness of changing times hovering around the two families -- the hard-working and nominally pious Lambs and the spirited, careless Pickleses -- who ostensibly represent two strains of the nascent Australian middle class.
The Lambs, Lester and Oriel, have four daughters and two sons; the Pickleses, Sam and Dolly, two sons and a daughter. (At the start, some are quite young; be prepared to see adult actors squealing like children and one wearing a towel as a diaper.) Not exactly enemies, the two families are mutually resentful and dismissive, and the play is at its best in its first-half scenes in which the characters are established and the inevitable merging of the two families is set subtly in motion.
Part of the script involves characters stepping forward and addressing the audience as if narrating their own thoughts. This device is melded swiftly and smoothly with straightforward dramatic scenes covering a Dickensian variety of events, from commonplace to outrageously coincidental, bland to portentous, dangerous and sexy to homey and aw-shucks. These give the play a distinct novelistic quality and the irresistible undulations of a book like, say Larry McMurtry's "Lonesome Dove."
This feeling is helped by fine characterizations, including John Gaden as the sweetly worrisome Lester Lamb, an accidental entrepreneur (he makes and sells ice cream; lucky audience members may get a sample); Gillian Jones as his severe, sorrowful wife, Oriel; Roy Billing, a stout and energetic actor in the Bob Hoskins mold, as the inveterate gambler and drinker, Sam Pickles, and Kris McQuade as Dolly, the slatternly, mean-witted wife Sam helplessly loves. In particular, Ms. McQuade, whose silk-and-gravel voice is as distinct as any I've ever heard on the stage, is riveting in a portrayal that can be as sexy as it is down and out, as funny as it is dastardly.
Indeed, it is in spite of the best efforts of this talented and well-rehearsed 15-member cast, whose memory work alone is awe-inspiring (in the course of 101 scenes, many are responsible for multiple roles that include stagehand), that the show slides precipitately in the second half into prosaic declaration, anthemic pomposity and pretentious metaphor.
Amid increasingly ponderous language that touts the unbreakable bonds of family and the creation of a unified Australian clan and flavors its patriotic soup with a carefully measured dollop of politically correct shame, the house at 1 Cloud Street emerges in the shape of Australia.
A Lamb son and a Rose daughter marry, move back home and become happily middle class; he becomes a policeman to participate in "the war against evil," as he puts it. An Aboriginal character known simply as Black Man becomes an increasing presence as a narrator -- the underlying guilt of white Australia -- which is as pandering as it is heavy-handed.
Emblematic of the play's overpresumption of its welcome is the character of Fish Lamb (Daniel Wyllie), to whom we are introduced in the opening sequence; in one of the show's most stirring scenes dramatically and visually, he is transformed from a fun-loving boy into a permanent 3-year-old when he nearly drowns in a boating accident, suffering brain damage.
The accident, in which Mr. Wyllie, suspended above the stage, thrashes about in a fishing net with his family shrieking below, first with laughter and then with terror, is gorgeous, chilling and simply conceived. And along with the illustrative music (both recorded and live, written by Iain Grandage and performed on piano and cello by Matthew Hoy) and the set -- a wooden plank floor on a stage-filling bed of sand, with a drawable curtain at the rear and most of the props stacked in view along the side -- it shows off the artful ingenuity of Mr. Armfield and his team of designers.
But then we have to live with Mr. Wyllie for several more hours; he's gained a telepathic gift along with his disability, and he communes with the ghosts in the house -- young indigenous women mistreated by the white mistress -- becoming the one character in the play with a conscious sense of historical injustice. But he can no longer communicate, get it?
Bellowing and whining, stumbling about with a Frankenstein-like gait, sometimes in soiled underpants, he is as persuasive a toddler as a 200-pound man can be. But he's not cute for long. Maybe they're more indulgent of their children down there, but in Brooklyn you wish the play would be more thoughtful and put him to bed.

CLOUDSTREET

Adaped by Nick Enright and Justin Monjo from the novel by Tim Winton; directed by Neil Armfield, set by Robert Cousins; costumes by Tess Schofield; lighting by Mark Howett; music composed by Iain Grandage; sound by Gavin Tempany; choreography by Kate Champion; assistant director, Anatoly Frusin. A production of Company B Belvoir from Sydney and the Black Swan Theater from Perth. Part of the Next Wave Down Under festival of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, Bruce C. Ratner, chairman; Alan H. Fishman, chairman, campaign for BAM; Karen Brooks Hopkins, president; Joseph V. Mellilo, executive producer. At the Brooklyn Academy of Music in the Harvey Lichtenstein Theater, 651 Fulton Street, Fort Greene.

WITH: Wayne Blair (Black Man), Roy Billing (Sam Pickles and Mr. Wentworth), John Gaden (Lester Lamb and Lawyer), Claire Jones (Rose Pickles), Gillian Jones (Oriel Lamb and Mrs. Tisborne), Kris McQuade (Dolly Pickles and Alma), Christopher Pitman (Quick Lamb) and Daniel Wyllie (Fish Lamb).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Daniel Wyllie as Fish Lamb, front, Christopher Pitman as Quick Lamb and Wayner Blair as Black Man in "Cloudstreet" at the Harvey Theater. (Richard Termine for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); FAMILY (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (88%); FESTIVALS (88%); THEATER REVIEWS (88%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); CHILDREN (72%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%) THEATER; REVIEWS; FESTIVALS; NEXT WAVE DOWN UNDER FESTIVAL 

ORGANIZATION: BROOKLYN ACADEMY OF MUSIC 

PERSON: WEBER, BRUCE; WINTON, TIM; ENRIGHT, NICK; MONJO, JUSTIN; ARMFIELD, NEIL 

GEOGRAPHIC: PERTH, AUSTRALIA (92%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (74%) AUSTRALIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: CLOUDSTREET (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



101 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Services Index Rises, but Trend Is Not YetClear 

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
A survey of services activity that captured only some effects of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks rose in September.
 The survey, by the National Association of Purchasing Management, showed yesterday that the transportation industries suffered. But survey officials maintained that business activity was virtually unchanged. 
 The association said the index snapped a two-month decline, rising to 50.2 in September from 45.5 in August. The results surpassed analysts' forecasts of 43.0.
But the association contended that the data "basically indicated no change in activity in September compared to August."
Ralph Kauffman, chairman of the survey committee, said in a teleconference that "chances are" that the index would have been higher had the attacks not occurred. "But the fact that it registered virtually no change from August," he asserted, "shows we didn't completely go off a cliff."
A bounce in export orders and imports led the rise in the overall index. A reading above 50 indicates expanding activity in services, which include a range of businesses like transportation, law and financial services.
The association's manufacturing index, published on Monday, has been mired below 50 for 14 months. The services, or nonmanufacturing, index has shown expansion for only two of the last six months.
Steven Wood, economist at FinancialOxygen, said: "With mounting job losses, eroding income gains and deteriorating consumer and business confidence, further contraction is likely in the months ahead. The economy was likely in recession before Sept. 11; if it was not, it is now."
Predictably, the report showed that business activity, new orders and employment all weakened in transportation industries as airlines grounded planes and canceled flights after the attacks.
The report noted that some members of the association expected a positive impact, particularly in armaments and some energy industries.
Ian Shepherdson of High Frequency Economics in Valhalla, N.Y., expressed hesitation. "It may be that the full effects of Sept. 11 will appear over the coming months," Mr. Shepherdson said. But he called the survey, which many economists deem unreliable given its short four-year history, "helpful but far from conclusive."
The association's nonmanufacturing new orders index, seen as a leading indicator of future business activity, rose to 49.8 in September from 45.9 in August. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); NEW ORDERS (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); TERRORISM (78%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); RECESSION (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); EXPORT TRADE (68%); AIRLINES (63%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (91%) NATIONAL ASSN OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



102 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Considers Reducing Oil Production 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
Less than a week after deciding to maintain production levels despite sharply declining oil prices, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is considering a decrease in output by 500,000 barrels a day, said the group's secretary general, Ali Rodriguez Araque.
 OPEC members might opt for the reduction if the average of seven benchmark prices for crude oil remains below $22 a barrel for 10 consecutive days, a stretch that ends Friday. On Tuesday, that average hovered around $20.30. 
 "We are consulting with other ministers to make a decision" to reduce production quotas, Mr. Rodriguez told Bloomberg News yesterday "If there isn't cooperation, world economic growth is very, very low, and we can expect a collapse in prices." 
It remained far from clear why Mr. Rodriguez chose to reveal the deliberations or if the 10-member cartel would actually authorize a reduction in output, analysts said. Last week, when the group met at its headquarters in Vienna, OPEC left production at its current level of 23.2 million barrels a day, although prices had plummeted as the global economy drifted into recession and oil demand dwindled. 
At any other time, the cartel, which supplies about 40 percent of the world's oil, would have propped up prices by reducing oil supplies. But OPEC has worried about appearing greedy and insensitive at a time when the United States is coping with terrorist attacks and the global economy is reeling in their aftermath. While some analysts wondered whether Mr. Rodriguez's comments indicated a shift in OPEC's thinking spurred by a growing desperation, most said they thought the secretary general was trying to calm a skittish market. 
"Our sense is that they will try 'to talk the market up,' " said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation. "I would be surprised if they were so insensitive as to cut production now."
The cancellation of airline flights in the United States after the attacks and the drop in fuel demand as the economy stalled has bloated oil stocks and damped prices. Supplies of crude oil in the United States, at 307.7 million barrels, are 7 percent greater than a year ago, according to the American Petroleum Institute's weekly storage data. The news of greater supplies drove down prices of crude oil for November delivery by 3.1 percent, or 71 cents, to $22.08 a barrel at the New York Mercantile Exchange yesterday. Oil prices have fallen 20 percent since Sept. 11.
The problem is, if OPEC promises to buoy prices and they remain low, the cartel might be pressed into decreasing official quotas, a move most analysts consider ill-advised, because of the fragility of the global economy. Instead, OPEC indicated at its meeting last week that it would tighten oil supplies by stanching the rampant overproduction within its ranks. 
Oil prices fell gradually this year before Sept. 11, but nearly all OPEC members pumped more than their official quotas to cash in on the then relatively high price of about $25 a barrel. A production cut of a million barrels a day, OPEC's third of the year, went into effect Sept. 1, and analysts said that if members could actually hold to it, oil supplies would shrink enough to bolster prices.
Although OPEC could reduce output by 500,000 barrels a day if prices dip below $22 a barrel, some analysts said OPEC might be able to tolerate $20 a barrel for some time, given the shakiness of the economy and the uncertainty over the United States response to the attacks. But even lower prices alarm the cartel, whose members rely almost exclusively on oil to finance their states. 
"OPEC is very worried," said Mehdi Varzi, senior energy consultant with the investment bank Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein. "They've been used to high prices for two years, and high prices are like a drug. They can't balance their budgets if prices fall below $20."

GRAPHIC: Photo: An oil worker in Kuwait regulates the flow of crude oil at a gathering center. Kuwait and other OPEC nations are worried as prices slip. (Associated Press) Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since April 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); CARTELS (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); PETROLEUM & COAL PRODUCTS MFG (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (68%); GASOLINE MARKETS (68%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); AIRLINES (61%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

COMPANY: BLOOMBERG LP (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (51%)

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); KUWAIT (92%); AUSTRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



103 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Up the Creek in the Bronx; 
Fulton Fish Market Unhappy in Its New Home

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

 BODY:
The thing about fish is that it's got to be sold today. This is both a natural and an economic law. 
 This universal truth is being pleaded by fishmongers at the Fulton Fish Market, who, because of the World Trade Center attack, are no longer mongering fish from their open-air stalls in southern Manhattan, but rather from a desolate and filthy parking lot in the South Bronx. 
 The market, it seems, created traffic problems. So its relocation went into effect Sept. 15 on the order of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. 
"When the semis and forklifts are operating and fish is being sold outdoors, South Street is shut down," said Janel Patterson, a spokeswoman for the city's Economic Development Corporation. "We need that street for the relief effort."
The move has brought impending bankruptcies, layoffs of workers, worries of a spoiled seafood supply and struggles for the neighborhood around the South Street Seaport, the merchants said.
The market is currently at 600 Food Center Drive in the Hunts Point Market site, the Bronx. It is sandwiched between the meat cooperative and the littered banks of the Bronx River. It leans like a shantytown against the old Hebrew National Foods warehouse. The names of the fish purveyors are spray-painted on the building. Just across an access road is a polluted brownfield and a dumping ground for batteries, house paints and other toxic materials.
"It's a horror story," said Joe Centrone, a cantankerous cigar-stained salesman for Arrow Seafood, who is known around the market as Joe Tuna. "We're getting slaughtered. None of the customers can find us up here, and even if they could, this ain't the nicest neighborhood in New York."
To make matters worse, the square footage of the temporary market is one-third the space of the Fulton Fish Market. The 1,200 forklifts, trucks and vans must jockey for available space among the narrow aisles and roads while avoiding the customers and workmen pushing handcarts. The merchandise is piled so haphazardly that the salesmen find it difficult to remember what fish they have in stock. 
The 59 wholesale operators find themselves working in the elements, without computers or cash registers, with nothing to shield them from the rain and wind. The sleet of December is on everyone's mind.
Since the move to the Bronx, merchants estimate that volume is down 40 to 50 percent. The market normally moves 100,000 boxes of produce a week, which translates into a $1 billion annual industry for New York City. But many say that business is now so poor that they don't think they can last another month in the current situation.
"It's a temporary home with no end in sight," said Vincent Tatick, president of the Joseph H. Carter Fish Company. "The city thinks they're helping us. But over all this location is killing us. If we can get back home, we want to get back home yesterday."
The wholesalers were scheduled to move to a new location in the Bronx in 2003, but construction on that project will not begin until later this fall, city officials said. For now, they will have to endure the parking lot.
"We've got no problem with the temporary move," said Tony Cirillo, president of Local 359 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, the union that represents the 400 journeymen and salesmen at the fish stalls. "We're Americans and we want to do our part. But enough is enough. The New York Stock Exchange is back open for business, for pete's sake. How about us?"
Because business is so bad, Mr. Cirillo said, 50 of his men have been laid off and more job losses are expected next week. 
"These are good jobs," he said. "This whole thing has a negative trickle-down on families and the city."
Some people at the market say Mayor Giuliani is using a national emergency to punish them for their long-running resistance to his authority. Mr. Giuliani effectively crushed the influence of organized crime at the Fulton Fish Market in the mid-1990's, requiring licensing and background checks on workers, which forced more than a dozen companies out of business.
City officials say the move is nothing more than an emergency measure to keep the fish market, the largest in the United States, solvent, and that every effort is being made to get the Fulton Fish Market back up and running. 
"There was no electricity or telephones and Lower Manhattan was immobilized," Ms. Patterson said. "At this point, South Street is an artery needed for the relief effort, and it's hard to say when we'll be able to move them back." 
The market operates like an open-air auction house, except there are no barkers and no tote boards to reflect supply and demand. Prices are set by the individual consignees and are determined by a strange combination of weather reports, fishermen's gossip and the prices at the neighboring stalls. 
The men still come to work at midnight, as they have for a century. Their language is rough and blasphemous. But many buyers, who come from as far away as South Jersey and northern Connecticut, are going to the Philadelphia and Boston markets rather than take their chances in the Bronx during the dark morning hours, the salesmen said. 
Judging by the sanitary conditions of the temporary fish house, one cannot blame them. The quarters are wretched. Rodent droppings line the walls. Exhaust fumes from the forklifts mingle with the fish. The floors are a slop of mud and oil.
The few toilets are filthy, and there are only a few hoses to wash down the entire 50,000 square feet of indoor cooler and storage space. The equipment at the temporary market includes 20 diesel trucks used for refrigeration, 15 portable spotlights and a handful of outhouses. One truck recently malfunctioned and $13,000 worth of seafood was lost overnight.
A city official who works with the market seemed content with the cleanliness of the Hunts Point location, saying the area is power-washed daily and the garbage is picked up. 
"Have you ever seen Fulton Market?" the official said. "It always looks filthy at the end of the selling day."
There is also the economic health of the old neighborhood to consider. Carmine's restaurant, at Front and Beekman Streets, and a favorite of market hands, has lost most of its food business, the owner reports.
Then there is Annie, a pillar of the Fulton Fish Market. She earns a meager living selling newspapers and socks and cigarettes. She has no pension. What happened to Annie, the men asked yesterday morning. 
Around 4 a.m., she arrived by car service. They were glad to see her until someone figured it out.
"Annie's here?" he said. "Oh, God. That means we're here to stay."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A refrigerated truck at the Fulton Fish Market, now relocated to Hunts Point in the Bronx. The temporary market has only one-third the space of the old site.; Tony Cirillo, the president of Local 359 of the United Food and Commercial Workers, the union local that represents the fish market workers, said: "The New York Stock Exchange is back open for business, for pete's sake. How about us?" (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. D1); The fish market, relocated to Hunts Point. Complaints include less space,unsanitary conditions, loss of customers and hazardous crowding. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FISH & SEAFOOD STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); FISH & SEAFOOD WHOLESALERS (89%); FISHES (78%); HIJACKING (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); RELOCATIONS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); WHOLESALERS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); WATER POLLUTION (71%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (71%); BROWNFIELD SITES (69%); LAYOFFS (55%) FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; TERRORISM; FULTON FISH MARKET (NYC); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (56%) LEDUFF, CHARLIE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) HUNTS POINT (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



104 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: Market Place; 
For Polaroid, the bad news seems to be the only news.

BYLINE:  By Claudia H. Deutsch 

 BODY:
THROUGHOUT corporate America, the economic aftermath of Sept. 11 means hard times. For a company like the Polaroid Corporation, which was already well down the path to insolvency, it could mean the end of the road.
 The sluggish economy was already causing trouble for photography companies, long before terrorism reared its head. For example, the Eastman Kodak Company said last week that its third-quarter earnings would be much lower than the company had anticipated, because of low sales in August. Now Kodak, like many film companies, finds its bleak outlook even bleaker, as travel and revelry -- prime picture-taking opportunities -- are in a slump. 
 But Kodak, Fuji, Canon and most other photography players will probably revive when the economy does. Analysts are not as optimistic about Polaroid.
"Polaroid just does not generate enough cash to make it through until the economy recovers, and Sept. 11 made it even less likely that the company will ever be healthy," said Gibboney Huske, a Credit Suisse First Boston analyst who dropped coverage of Polaroid stock in July because she no longer saw equity value in it. 
The stock, which traded at $14.19 a year ago, closed yesterday at 49 cents a share, down 6 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange. About 17 percent of those penny-stock shares are owned by employees. 
On Monday, the company, which is based in Cambridge, Mass., notified its employees that its pension fund had a $100 million shortfall, though Polaroid added that the fund's existing assets of more than $900 million would cover 90 percent of benefits.
Gary T. DiCamillo, Polaroid's chief executive since 1995, turned down requests for an interview, and no one at the company would speculate about its future.
Polaroid's problems have been a long time building. Financial missteps grew from maneuvers the company took in 1988 to duck a hostile takeover. And strategic blunders included a delayed reaction and a series of clumsy responses to the threat digital photography posed to Polaroid's chemical-and-paper instant pictures.
For years, though, the magnitude of those mistakes were not evident to the outside world. In February 1996 the company's management was promising Wall Street that by 2000 its annual sales would be more than $3.4 billion. In fact, last year's revenue was only $1.9 billion. The company began losing money in the third quarter of 2000, and the red ink keeps flowing.
Today, its credit and bond ratings are barely above junk grade. Polaroid has about $950 million in debt, more than half of it short term. Even though its banks have kept giving short-term waivers on principal repayments, the company's credit line will run out on Dec. 31. It has defaulted on several interest payments to bondholders and has $150 million in bonds that mature on Jan. 15. 
Polaroid says the negotiations with its bondholders are going well, but if they break down, they could force the company into bankruptcy. Some analysts have suggested that Polaroid pre-empt such a move by filing for voluntary bankruptcy, or reach a deal with bondholders that would let it trade much of its debt for equity. 
Other analysts expect either a financial investor or a camera company to buy Polaroid. Several point to Canon, which would welcome Polaroid's consumer distribution network, or to Olympus Optical, which already produces a hybrid digital and instant-film camera in partnership with Polaroid. Neither company would comment on the speculation.
"I expect by the time the year is out, the chairman will have resigned, Polaroid will have sold significant assets or the whole company, or bondholders will have clamped down," Ms. Huske said.
The real financial trouble dates to the hostile takeover attempted by Shamrock Holdings in 1988. Polaroid fought back by creating its employee stock plan, buying back shares and issuing preferred stock that was convertible to debt. Polaroid kept its independence, but by 1989 it was $600 million in debt -- $920 million, counting the preferred stock. It has rarely been debt-free since.
Analysts say Polaroid should have paid down the debt using some of the $925 million it received in 1991, when Kodak settled a patent violation suit. Instead, Polaroid tried to shore up its plunging stock by buying back shares, and to become more efficient by buying expensive resource planning software. Both moves pushed it further into a fiscal hole. 
Nor was digital photography a sudden new threat. "We'd known for 20 years that digital imaging was coming," said Carol Ulrich, a former president of commercial imaging who resigned in 1999 after 30 years with Polaroid. 
Ms. Ulrich had suggested a year earlier -- when Polaroid shares were selling at about $42 -- that the company sell itself. But Polaroid's board chose a different path: it would slash costs and sell real estate; farm out manufacturing and bring in marketing partners; milk older products for cash to finance newer ones. 
Polaroid's new instant cameras, like the JoyCam and the I-Zone, are selling well, but few analysts expect them to attain the popularity that instant cameras once had. "Polaroid mistakenly thought its new cameras were growth businesses, when in fact they have half the life and half the consumption of the older ones," said Robert L. Renck, who runs the brokerage firm R. L. Renck & Company. 
The company does have some promising new technologies -- notably, a couple of thermal printing processes that dispense with toners and inks. But these may be arriving too late. 
While many other companies are now pegging problems to the Sept. 11 attacks, Polaroid might have trouble making that case. Consumers rarely took Polaroid's bulky cameras on vacations, for example, so canceled trips would have less impact on it than, say, Kodak or Fuji. And government agencies and private companies, fearful of terrorism, might have clamored to utilize Polaroid's considerable expertise in making picture ID's. 
Mining that niche, though, has been more beneficial to a small company, Viisage Technology, which specializes in ID cards. Its shares soared from less than $2 on Sept. 10 to $9.80 last week before closing at $6.15 in Nasdaq trading yesterday -- even though Polaroid's $200 million annual ID business dwarfs Viisage's $26 million. 
"Even if the ID business takes off, it'll be too little too late," Ms. Huske said. 
Investors might not even notice an uptick, said Ulysses Yannas, an analyst with Buckman, Buckman & Reid. He noted that Polaroid has been talking about selling the ID unit to raise cash.
"The market knows that Polaroid has valuable assets," Mr. Yannas said, "but it still thinks the company is kaput." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BONDS (89%); PHOTOGRAPHY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); PENSION FUNDS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); TERRORISM (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (72%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%) PHOTOGRAPHY; FINANCES 

COMPANY: POLAROID CORP (94%); EASTMAN KODAK CO (85%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%)

ORGANIZATION: POLAROID CORP 

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS333314 OPTICAL INSTRUMENT & LENS MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (94%); NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%) SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES; 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



105 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: New Rules on No-Fly Zones Are Hurting Smaller Airports 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: TETERBORO, N.J., Oct. 3 

 BODY:
The establishment of no-fly zones for private aircraft around major airports in the Washington and New York metropolitan areas after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks is costing smaller airports hundreds of thousands of dollars and threatening thousands of jobs, industry officials said today.
 In the New York region, the restriction on so-called general aviation flights within a 25-mile radius of Kennedy International Airport in Queens has grounded two-thirds of the flights here at Teterboro Airport in Bergen County, and at Republic Airport in Farmingdale on Long Island, airport officials say. Charter flights, which must file flight plans ahead of time and are easier to track, are permitted. 
 Westchester County Airport in White Plains, N.Y., is exempt from the 25-mile no-fly radius in order to allow some private flights in and out of the New York region, said William Shumann, a spokesman for the Federal Aviation Administration.
Federal officials are aware of the hardships, and are weighing national security concerns against granting relief by reducing the radius to 18 miles, which would allow flights at Teterboro, Mr. Shumann said. A special exemption has been requested for Republic Airport, which is 17.3 miles from Kennedy.
"Republic is losing $200,000 a day," said Representative Steve Israel, a Long Island congressman who has called on federal officials to tighten the radius and allow private flights at Republic and Teterboro. "If you're a terrorist and you charter a flight, you have no problem taking off. But if you're a businessman on Long Island, you're restricted."
Mr. Israel, who collected signatures from fellow members of the Long Island Congressional delegation on letters to the F.A.A., the Federal Department of Transportation and the National Security Council, said that a meeting was scheduled on Thursday between officials of Republic, which is owned by New York State, and the F.A.A. He said that airport officials would increase security if the restrictions were eased.
Mr. Shumann said it was up to the cabinet to ease the no-fly rules, after a recommendation from the F.A.A. A decision is expected next week.
In the meantime, officials say the grounded flights have affected businesses, including fuel dealers and flight schools.
At Teterboro, situated within 15 minutes of the George Washington Bridge and the Lincoln Tunnel, 1,250 airport jobs are at risk, with a potential impact 2,500 more jobs in support services, according to the New Jersey Aviation Association, a trade group lobbying federal officials on the airport's behalf. Around the airport, which is owned by the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, hotel occupancy and catering are down 50 percent, and limousine companies have lost $100,000, the association said.
"Teterboro is operating at 25 percent of full capacity and it is having a devastating effect on the regional economy," Thomas D. Carver, president of the association, wrote in a letter to members of New Jersey's Congressional delegation. "Teterboro is arguably the most important business aviation airport in the country. It generates more than $469 million into the regional economy annually. Any shutdown has an immediate financial effect on major corporations as well as small businesses throughout the area." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (96%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); CITIES (90%); AIRPORT OPERATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); AIR SERVICE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); AIRLINES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); MISSING PERSONS (69%); LOBBYING (68%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (60%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (50%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; TERRORISM; FINANCES; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HIJACKING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (60%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (60%)

PERSON: STEVE ISRAEL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



106 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: The War on Terror Finds Wary Support in France 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE DALEY 

DATELINE: THIERS, France, 

 BODY:
Alain Leforestier grew up in the Normandy region where the military cemeteries offer irrefutable evidence that American soldiers have laid down their lives when France was in need.
 He is quick to recall this. It is one reason, he says, why the French must now stand with the United States. No question about it. 
 But Mr. Leforestier -- a 44-year-old civil servant who helps run this small medieval village in the center of France where -- makes clear too that he is not wholly comfortable with this proposition. Exactly what America will do now and how it will do it are questions that gnaw at him. 
His trust does not go far. What he sees as the harshness of American society puzzles and worries him. He finds President Bush's dead-or-alive rhetoric "ridiculous" and "unpresidential." He would be far more at ease, he says, if the crisis were in the hands of someone like Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain.
"Mr. Bush scares me," Mr. Leforestier said. "He has such power and, on top of that, he has values that I don't hold, the death penalty, for instance. If it was Blair, at least, we would understand each other. We are Europeans and we have more values in common."
Even here, a four-hour drive from Paris, the terror attacks on New York and Washington have had enormous impact, constantly discussed and argued about. For many, the feeling of being safely tucked away in the countryside has been shattered. When Mr. Leforestier's wife, Pasquale, looks out of her kitchen window now at the river rushing below she sees the potential for biological and chemical attacks.
Like many in France, the Leforestiers see themselves on the same side as the Americans, yet they do not see themselves as being of one mind with Americans. 
France and America have long vied with one another to be seen as the true guardian of the free world. France's aspirations for its culture breed a resistance to American imports. In addition, a host of social and political issues have begun to come between the two countries, from America's support of capital punishment to a general sense that Americans are too concerned with money, unable to enjoy life or to reach out to those who have less than they do. Nowhere has resistance to what is portrayed as an American-led attempt to impose its culture and economic model on the world been stronger.
In the cobblestone streets here, as elsewhere in France, there is a huge fear about what the extremists who smashed airliners into crowded buildings might do next. But there is a parallel fear that the United States will act only in its own interests and that it could make things worse. 
"If Bush decides to drop a thousand bombs on Kabul, do we have to follow you?" asked Mr. Leforestier. "It is not O.K. to do whatever just because Bush wants to do it."
Polls show that the French overwhelmingly favor backing the United States militarily, if they should be called on to do so. One recent survey found 70 percent in favor of joining a military effort. But the country is nevertheless engaged in a far-reaching debate about whether America's behavior in recent years did not somehow encourage the attacks.
Marianne, a political weekly, ran a banner headline last week asking, "How far do we go in standing with America?" Another magazine divided its front page in half, putting pictures of the "guilty" -- such as Osama bin Laden -- at the top of the page and the "responsible" at the bottom. In the magazine's view, the responsible included Mr. Bush, for turning his back on negotiations in the Middle East. In passionate letters to newspapers, readers deplore what they see as America's narrow-minded desire for vengeance.
"Is it possible that some day the people of America will realize that the devastation, the suffering and the death they are now suffering is minuscule in proportion to what the U.S. has inflicted directly and indirectly on others," said one letter in Le Monde. "People are still dying as the result of American actions in Japan, Vietnam, Cambodia, Iraq and territories in the former Yugoslavia."
Some of Mr. Leforestier's co-workers agree that America deserved what it got for paying so little attention to the misery in the world. But Mr. Leforestier, who moved here as a teenager, and his wife , who was born here, find such arguments abhorrent. The Leforestiers, who have two teenage children, have never visited the United States. She likes to cook. He likes searching for and restoring old country furniture. They are slowly renovating their 17th-century house. 
Americans, they say, seem like people who rush around too much and care too much about money. But one of their best friends is a New York sculptor who designed a walkway along the river near their house.
"Sometimes America does not seem like a very appealing place, but then there is George and he is quite wonderful," said Mrs. Leforestier, referring to their friend. Even before the second World Trade Center tower was hit by the second plane on Sept. 11, Mrs. Leforestier was on the phone trying to make sure that he was all right. 
They are now glued to the television during every news broadcast. "No one can deserve such a thing," Mr. Leforestier said of the carnage he has seen. "War has many rules but this -- was just craziness."
Still, he says that once all that is said, it is time for America to examine its behavior.
America, he says, is expansionist. It is everywhere. It is the strongest. McDonald's are everywhere and the young people are going to American movies and people here feel this. Then there are foreign policy issues like what happened in Chile with the military coup in 1973. There are many others. Every French person, he says, has one or two in their head.
"Now if you look at Africa and some of the other underdeveloped places and think of how they see you, how can they not want to knock you cold?" he asked.
Mr. Leforestier does not see France as outside the sphere of blame. "We have the same politics, the same capitalist economy. And we are even the ones selling them arms. We must all examine ourselves."
For the moment, France and America seem to have come together over the tragedy. French politicians have repeatedly pledged solidarity, but have also made clear that they will not follow blindly. Disagreements over issues like the use of land mines and the need to preserve missile treaties, adhere to environmental pacts and set up an international court have not gone away. 
In many ways, France -- which endured a wave of terrorist bombings in the mid 1990's and has a growing Muslim population -- is far more aware of tension between the Western and Islamic world. Even in this town of about 10,000 people, there is a sizable Algerian and Moroccan population. Newspapers have made clear that, across the country, there is little sympathy for America among French Muslims. 
The Leforestiers are heartened that Mr. Bush seems to be taking his time before acting, and more heartened still by accounts that Americans are trying to read up on Islam, fanaticism and the Middle East.
"My hope is that it wakes up the conscience of the Americans," Mr. Leforestier said. "Ours too, of course. If what happens can make a new world order with progress then this is good. But did you really need this to happen first?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alain Leforestier says France should stand by America, but he is not wholly comfortable with the idea. He is worried by what he sees as the harshness of American society. He served tart to his daughter at lunch. (Guy Tillim for The New York Times) Map of France highlighting Thiers: The attacks on the United States have had an impact in Thiers, too.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (74%); CEMETERIES (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); HIJACKING (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (66%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (51%) DALEY, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NORMANDY, FRANCE (73%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); FRANCE; THIERS (FRANCE)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



107 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
Videoconferencing may at last get the critical mass it needs.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; This column appears here every Thursday. Hal R. Varian is an economics professor and dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley. E-mail: hal@sims.berkeley.edu.

 BODY:
WILL the current reluctance to travel stimulate widespread use of videoconferencing? The stock market seems to think so. Shares of companies that specialize in videoconferencing have shot up 30 percent or more in the last two weeks.
 But people have been forecasting the takeoff of videoconferencing for decades. In the early 1970's AT&T offered Picturephone service in Chicago for $86.50 a month. Jeff Rohlfs, a Bell Labs economist who was involved with the project, describes the history of this technology in his new book, "Bandwagon Effects in High-Technology Industries" (MIT Press). 
 Based on his experience with the Picturephone introduction in the early 1970's, Mr. Rohlfs came up with a concept he called network externalities. According to Mr. Rohlfs's definition, a good or service exhibits network externalities when its value to a potential purchaser depends on how many other people have purchased it.
Fax machines and Picturephones are standard examples. The fax machine was a big success, while the Picturephone was a failure. Why the difference?
Mr. Rohlfs developed a model that showed that "network goods" would be successful only when they were able to achieve an initial critical mass of early users. If the initial number of purchasers exceeds this threshold, the market takes off. Otherwise, it falls back to failure.
The Picturephone had 200 users at its peak, apparently far less than critical mass, and the product was withdrawn from the market.
Nobody cares about a failed technology, and Mr. Rohlfs's work was rarely cited in the decade after its publication. Then in the 80's and 90's we saw fax machines, video players, the Internet, e-mail, and the Web, all of which exhibited strong network effects.
Other economists, like Michael Katz and Carl Shapiro, picked up on the idea and studied strategies that companies could follow to achieve critical mass. Bob Metcalfe, inventor of the ethernet, independently promoted a related concept now known as Metcalfe's Law: the value of a network grows as the square of the number of users.
Talk about network effects exploded in the late 1990's. It is one of those rare concepts that you could explain to budding chief executives in five minutes and they could pitch to venture capitalists for six months -- or until they got financing, whichever came first.
Videoconferencing never achieved critical mass because it has always been more attractive to hop on a plane. Real-time face-to-face meetings are costly, but that's the way business has been done for centuries, and it is hard to change ingrained patterns of behavior.
Those companies that have experimented with videoconferencing have had mixed success. Low-cost videoconferencing is flaky enough that you can't really count on its working, and the high-quality technology is still pretty expensive.
But the days of blithely hopping on planes are over, at least for a while, so many companies will experiment with the technology in the coming months. As more companies use it, the technology will improve and videoconferencing capability will become more widespread. Perhaps it will finally achieve the critical mass that has eluded it for so many decades.
Most large American companies have a good enough network infrastructure to experiment with videoconferencing. The situation is different for residential broadband, since only about 6 percent of American households have high-speed network connections. Silicon Valley would love to see residential broadband take off, since it hopes that would stimulate demand for PC's and related consumer electronics. This week there are two meetings in Washington devoted to this topic, part of a series of efforts by technology and telecommunications companies to change regulatory constraints that they say inhibit residential broadband deployment.
Two years ago, I worked as part of a team to estimate residential demand for broadband. We gave about 80 university faculty members, staff and students residential high-speed connections. Our setup allowed users to change their bandwidth instantaneously, and we could charge them based on their choices. We changed prices for bandwidth every week and observed how people responded.
Our findings were summarized in several reports, but they boiled down to the following. First, the average user isn't willing to pay much for bandwidth, at least given the applications available in 1998-99. Second, those willing to pay for bandwidth were primarily technical and administrative workers, who appeared to use it for telecommuting. Third, most people were willing to pay a significant premium for a flat monthly rate, rather than a rate that varied by use.
The General Accounting Office reported results of a survey run in late 2000 that indicated that about 50 percent of Internet users in this country reported that broadband was available to them, but only 12 percent actually signed up for it. This is consistent with our first finding: people like broadband, but they aren't willing to pay a big premium for it.
Dial-up Internet access is widely available for around $20 a month, while broadband costs about $50 or more a month. It just isn't worth it for many potential customers.
The people who really like broadband are technically oriented telecommuters. Uploading and downloading files is a lot faster, and broadband makes working at home a lot easier. This suggests that broadband providers might well consider offering service packages oriented to home workers.
Maybe videoconferencing will be part of the mix, if it becomes widely used in business.
Noncommercial use of high bandwidth is more problematic. Opinions are mixed about how much extra people are willing to pay for movies on demand, especially when there are so many movies available via cable and local video stores. There seems to be some sort of market for music, but worries about piracy are likely to slow the availability of music on the Internet.
Residential broadband will come, but it will be slow in arriving until compelling applications are available.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Costas, the chief of UBS Warburg, talks with an executive in Connecticut via computer. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIDEO CONFERENCING (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (60%); EXECUTIVES (50%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; VIDEOCONFERENCING 

COMPANY: BELL LABORATORIES (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (57%)

PERSON: VARIAN, HAL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



108 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: White House Criticizes Republican Farm Bill 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
The Bush administration came out against the $171 billion House version of a farm bill today, saying it would give too much money to commodity subsidies and not enough to conservation efforts. The White House stance set up a battle within the Republican Party over who would determine farm policy for the next decade covered by the bill.
 Minutes after debate began in the House, the Office of Management and Budget released the administration statement, urging the House to rewrite the bill and make it "better for rural America, better for the environment and better for expanding markets." 
 The statement drew a bitter retort from Representative Larry Combest, a Texas Republican who is the chairman of the Agriculture Committee and the bill's chief sponsor.
"For you to come now at the last minute is an insult," Mr. Combest said, referring to the administration of his fellow Texan. "How could you dare do this to us?" 
Moderate Republicans led by Representative Sherwood Boehlert of New York said they were ecstatic with the new administration view, as it mirrors an amendment they are offering to shift $19 billion from crop subsidies to conservation projects.
Mr. Combest has promised to pull his bill if the House approves that amendment, which is also sponsored by Representative Ron Kind, Democrat of Wisconsin.
At the beginning of debate on the wide-ranging bill, which covers food stamps, rural development, conservation and crop subsidies, supporters said it amounted to an economic stimulus package. But as word spread through the chamber that the Republican administration had turned against their bill, speaker after speaker rose to denounce what they considered a cowardly betrayal.
"What this means is that Secretary Veneman needs a wake-up," said Representative Jim Nussle, the Iowa Republican who is the chairman of the Budget Committee, referring to Agriculture Secretary Ann M. Veneman.
Mr. Nussle joined Mr. Combest in questioning why the administration's public opposition came so late. 
Ms. Veneman said she had presented her agriculture principles since taking office and hoped to work with Congress in writing legislation.
An open war had been building for several weeks and had included a preliminary round last Friday when Ms. Veneman told the Senate that there might not be enough money in the budget to pay for the House version. Nonetheless, lawmakers and advocates seemed surprised.
"I've been working on farm legislation since 1977, and I've never seen such a harsh assessment from the White House of any farm bill," said Ken Cook, president of the Environmental Working Group, a nonprofit group supporting conservation programs.
In an effort to shore up support for the bill, the office of Representative Charles W. Stenholm, a Texas Democrat who is a co-sponsor of the House measure, sent an e-mail message to the offices of Democratic lawmakers warning that if they did not vote for the bill, their favorite programs, especially food stamps and nutrition programs, would be undercut.
Mr. Combest had anticipated several of the administration's objections in an amendment filed on Monday that would give the agriculture secretary authority to cut subsidies if they violated trade agreements.
And in a nod to growing support for international food aid since the attacks, Mr. Combest agreed to establish an international food program, named for former Senator George McGovern, now the ambassador for United Nations food programs, and Bob Dole, a former Senate majority leader. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPROVALS (71%) AGRICULTURE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (83%) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET 

PERSON: JIM NUSSLE (58%); RON KIND (58%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); COMBEST, LARRY (REPR); BOEHLERT, SHERWOOD (REPR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



109 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-14

Mideast Truce Falters As Violence Widens
The Middle East cease-fire endured largely in name only. An Israeli man and woman were wounded by gunfire as they drove with their baby through Jerusalem. Two Israeli women were wounded when Palestinian snipers fired into a crowd of Jewish worshipers at the Tomb of the Patriarchs in Hebron. Earlier, Israeli tanks in the northern Gaza Strip bombarded the Palestinian town of Beit Lahia, while Israeli bulldozers ravaged farmland in the area; six Palestinians were killed. The Israeli attack followed a Tuesday night raid by gunmen on the Jewish settlement of Alei Sinai, at the northern edge of the Gaza Strip. Two Israelis were shot dead in the attack and 15 were wounded. A14

False Alarm on India 'Hijacking'
A widely reported hijacking of an Alliance Air Boeing 737 jet on its way from Bombay to New Delhi was a false alarm, the authorities said. A5

Americans at Risk in Indonesia
Fringe groups of Islamic militants say they are seeking to drive Americans out of Indonesia. In the central Javanese city of Jolo, bands of young men have gone from hotel to hotel examining guest registers. The State Department says that some groups have already tried to attack American citizens. A9

Violent Protests in Bangladesh
At least 3 people were killed and more than 100 were injured in protests after the landslide victory of former Prime Minister Khaleda Zia in parliamentary elections. Supporters of Sheik Hasina, Mrs. Zia's rival, fought police and rival activists outside the capital, Dhaka. A5

Democratic Gains at Risk
Several governments in Central Europe have called for tighter security measures since the terror attacks in the United States on Sept. 11. Such moves could lead to a reversal in the direction of democratic gains that the nations have made since the fall of Communism. A6

Britain Considers Work Permits
Home Secretary David Blunkett, addressing the problems of illegal immigration and a clandestine economy exploiting unskilled workers, proposed the introduction of American-style work permits to let more foreigners seek jobs in Britain. A7

World Briefing A10

NATIONAL A16-22

6 Die in Bus Crash Caused by Attack on Driver
A passenger on a Greyhound bus traveling on an interstate highway in Tennessee slashed the neck of the driver, and as the two men struggled for control of the wheel, the bus crashed, killing the attacker and five other passengers, law enforcement officials said. Greyhound shut down all service for six hours, but the authorities said the attack was not connected to any terrorist acts. A16

The attack left some potential long-distance bus riders wondering, is anything safe anymore? A16

White House Faults Farm Bill
The Bush administration came out against the $171 billion House version of a farm bill, saying it would give too much money to commodity subsidies and not enough to conservation efforts. The White House stance set up a battle within the Republican Party over who will determine farm policy for the decade covered by the bill. A18

Ex-Clinton Aide Aims for Senate
Erskine B. Bowles, a chief of staff in the Clinton White House, said he would run as a Democrat for the seat being vacated by Jesse Helms of North Carolina, a Republican. Several candidates are in the race, with Elizabeth Dole the most widely known. A22

CIRCUITS G1-10

New Phase for Palmtops
Microsoft's next-generation operating system for pocket computers, Pocket PC 2002, makes its debut today, as do palmtops that run it. G1

OBITUARIES D8

Donald J. Cohen
A psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who as director of Yale's renowned Child Study Center reshaped the field of child psychiatry, he was 61. D8

NEW YORK/REGION D1-7

Mayor Says He Won't Run, But Hopes for Extension
Mayor Giuliani said he would not seek a third term, but added that he would like to serve an extra three months to help the next mayor with the transition process, if state lawmakers let him. The mayor is barred from a third term under term limit laws; any effort to amend those laws or extend his term will require the approval of the Legislature, where some Democrats oppose it. D1

Mark Green and Fernando Ferrer battled in a debate over Mr. Ferrer's promise to be the mayor for "the other New York." Mr. Green denounced the theme as "divisive." Mr. Ferrer said his opponent for the Democratic mayoral nomination was "denigrating the issues that I raised." D1

ARTS E1-10

EDUCATION

Columbia Choosing a President
Columbia University's presidential search committee nominated Lee C. Bollinger, the University of Michigan president who has drawn national attention for his forceful defense of Michigan's affirmative action policies. Columbia's trustees are expected to ratify the choice on Saturday. A1

SPORTS D9-16

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Genetic Link to Language
A team of geneticists and linguists say they found a gene underlying speech and language, the first linked to this uniquely human faculty. A1

Popcorn Butter Illness
Workers in Missouri and Nebraska have come down with a severe lung disease that is apparently linked to their work with vats of artificial butter flavoring, doctors say. A20

Advance in Fighting Plague
Biologists have decoded the full DNA, or genome, of the bacterium that causes plague, a disease that has caused three world epidemics in recorded history and killed some 200 million people. The decoding of the genome is widely expected to help devise better vaccines. A13

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

Drug Makers Settle Fraud Case
TAP Pharmaceutical Products, a venture of Abbott Laboratories and Takeda Chemical Industries, agreed to pay $875 million to settle criminal and civil charges that it had illegally manipulated Medicare and Medicaid programs. The settlement is the largest ever for health care fraud. C1

Technology Leads Stock Rally
The Nasdaq jumped 88.48 points, or 5.9 percent, to 1,580.81, its biggest gain since April 18, when it rose 8.12 percent. The Dow gained 173.19 points, or 1.93 percent, to 9,123.78, and the S.& P. 500 rose 20.95 points, or 1.99 percent, to 1,072.28. The rally followed President Bush's proposal of a hefty package of government spending and tax breaks to revive the economy. C1

Investment Banker Layoffs
Credit Suisse First Boston is said to be planning to cut about 20 percent of its investment banking staff worldwide, including a number of senior employees. The layoffs, which executives said could be announced next week, would be the first sizable staff reductions since John J. Mack became chief executive in July. C1

Autoworkers Reject Union
Workers at a Nissan Motor factory in Smyrna, Tenn., voted more than 2 to 1 not to join the United Automobile Workers. The union has never been able to organize in a plant operated solely by a foreign automaker. C5

OPEC Weighs Cutting Output
OPEC may decrease oil production by 500,000 barrels a day, the group's secretary general said, less than a week after the cartel decided to maintain production levels despite sharply declining oil prices. C6

I.B.M. Returning the Favor
I.B.M. is expected to announce a new line of Unix computers intended to challenge the market leader, Sun Microsystems. The move comes a week after Sun introduced machines portrayed as an assault on the mainframe market, I.B.M.'s stronghold. C4

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

HOUSE & HOME F1-16

EDITORIAL A26-27

Editorials: The next mayor's job; an effective, responsible stimulus; toward a balanced terrorism bill.

Columns: Bob Herbert, William Safire.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E9
Crossword E8
Weather D16
Public Lives D2

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HIJACKING (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (87%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (84%); IMMIGRATION (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RIOTS (73%); AIRLINES (73%); RELIGION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (68%); ELECTIONS (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (56%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (56%); BAB (BRU) (56%); BA (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ISRAEL (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); INDIA (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); BANGLADESH (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (78%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



110 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: FEDERAL AID; 
Vastness of Request Is Greeted by Doubts

BYLINE:  By ERIC LIPTON and RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
It is a breathtaking laundry list of need: $18 billion to clean up and rebuild Lower Manhattan, $12.5 billion in expected losses in state and city tax revenues, $3 billion in overtime and other staffing demands and $2 billion to replace fire trucks and other equipment.
 But even as the city and state continue to compute the damage caused by the Sept. 11 attack -- state officials said yesterday that it would total at least $50 billion -- skepticism is surfacing on Capitol Hill about whether Washington can fully meet New York's plea for help. 
 One aide to a Republican senator said yesterday that with a national recession seemingly taking hold, people from many states would soon form a line around the Capitol with "hat in their hand and tin cups looking for money." Another aide to a Republican House leader said that allocating much beyond the $20 billion already set aside for disaster relief for New York, Virginia and Pennsylvania was going to be extremely difficult. "We're already eating up the surplus, and the federal government has a war effort to pay for," he said. 
What has given some lawmakers in Washington greatest pause is New York's still evolving proposal to use billions in federal funds to help balance the state and city budgets over the coming 18 months. A spokesman for Dick Armey, the House majority leader, said any such plan would be met with intense scrutiny.
"That sounds like unprecedented, uncharted territory," said Greg Crist, Mr. Armey's spokesman. He said the House Republican leadership had not yet discussed the matter, or even seen a formal expanded aid request from New York.
No disaster in United States history has ever come close to the numbers already associated with the Sept. 11 attacks. The greatest amount of federal disaster relief paid out previously was the $7 billion allocated after the 1994 Northridge earthquake in California.
State officials and members of the New York Congressional delegation said they recognized the challenge they faced. Even as they argue that the damage in New York is the result of an act of war on the nation, they understand that the country is already beginning to focus on a potential recession's impact on the national economy.
"It's not going to be easy," said Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York. "There are other demands nationally."
Representative John E. Sweeney, an upstate Republican who is a close ally of Gov. George E. Pataki, said the city and state's enormous request for aid had not yet met with outright resistance, but New York officials were "getting signals that there's consternation out there."
And Representative Charles B. Rangel, a New York City Democrat, said even he was taken aback by the proposal for a federal grant of some kind to make up for lost state revenues.
"We just asked each other what the hell was that about," he said of the proposal, presented to a meeting of the New York delegation yesterday. "At first blush, that was very unusual."
To be sure, members of Congress from both parties say they remain ready to help clean up and rebuild New York, as President Bush has pledged. Dozens of United States senators and members of the House have toured ground zero in the last three weeks, expressing their sense of awe and anger at the scope of the destruction.
The open question is how far the federal government will go beyond covering basic cleanup and rebuilding costs. Reconstruction costs alone could be at least $30 billion, once debris removal, rebuilding, equipment replacement, overtime, utility damage, subway repairs and other costs directly related to the attack are totaled. That number could be reduced by some percentage because of insurance covering several damaged buildings in Lower Manhattan.
But city and state officials have added several unconventional categories to the damage assessment costs. The state has said that over the next 18 months, it expects to see tax revenues dip by by as much as $9 billion, with the city saying it expects to lose $3.5 billion in tax revenues. The losses are expected to come from businesses that have moved away, others that are no longer paying employees bonuses, and the severe decline in tourism and business travel to New York, among other factors.
"The New York City delegation, including the senators and congressmen, are going to have to spend a lot of time educating their colleagues," said Adam L. Barsky, New York City's budget director. "Keeping New York City and the state solvent and stable is important to the rest of the country. There is a question about their recognition of that."
But New York's requests will also be weighed against a similar though much smaller campaign by Virginia to compensate it for the economic impact of the extended closure of Reagan National Airport, which has since opened to limited flights.
"There is no doubt that there is a dramatic impact on the state of Virginia by enemy action," Gov. James S. Gilmore III said yesterday. "This is not a routine economic downturn."
Virginia has already submitted a revised estimate of the wide-ranging cost of the attack, in a letter sent last Friday to the administration's Office of Management and Budget. But the attempts by New York officials to agree on the actual size of their proposal and how best to add up real and future costs have created some tension among city and state officials.
The tension between New York State and city leaders flared up during a White House meeting last week, where representatives of the Giuliani administration threw out a figure that put the cost of the damage at roughly $40 billion. That surprised Pataki administration officials, who were also at the meeting, according to officials familiar with exchange. The state officials said the city's number was too low.
"The city and state aren't singing from the same page," one New York elected official said. "To make this work, all levels of government are going to have to work like a machine. If any one of them falls out of the picture, it will hurt New York." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); OVERTIME (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (88%); DISASTER RELIEF (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORISM (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

PERSON: CHARLES B RANGEL (55%); CHARLES SCHUMER (54%) LIPTON, ERIC; HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



111 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: The Next Mayor's Job 

 BODY:
New York's next mayor faces one of the most daunting challenges in the city's history -- rebuilding after the World Trade Center attack last month. The two remaining Democratic candidates are now telling voters how they would tackle the job. It is important to listen. All campaign promises made before Sept. 11 that involve new spending have become virtually irrelevant. The most important question in this disrupted but crucial mayoral election is who has the skills, depth and fortitude to handle the rebuilding and the enormous budget gap that the attack helped create.
 Public Advocate Mark Green and Bronx Borough President Fernando Ferrer met in their first runoff debate last night, and responded to questions about how they would restore Lower Manhattan and balance the budget. Mr. Ferrer repeated what had originally seemed like an over-hasty promise to use the restoration process to decentralize the financial district's businesses throughout the city. Mr. Ferrer wants to build and rehabilitate office space in places like the Hub in the Bronx and Stapleton in Staten Island to accommodate back-office jobs. That idea might make those boroughs happy, but it seems unlikely to please businesses that located near Wall Street because they wanted the advantages of being at the center of the nation's financial markets, and presumably wanted their support staffs nearby. 
 Perhaps more important is the danger that Mr. Ferrer's plan would reduce the city's chances of getting needed federal aid. However much New York would benefit from spreading out development and jobs, Washington and the nation believe they are sending aid here to restore the area that was devastated by two hijacked planes. Any sign that the money might be spread throughout the city's political web would be counterproductive. 
At this point, Mr. Green's proposals provide a more reasonable focus on restoring the economic vibrancy of Lower Manhattan as a global financial center. He also puts a great deal of emphasis on getting more federal aid. His agenda should be given points for specificity. But Mr. Green also tends to use the idea of billions in additional federal aid to dodge questions about difficult budget choices. Both men have made a good beginning in working out a way to create a quasi-public corporation that would lead the rebuilding process.
While neither candidate has focused directly on how he would manage a newly devastated city budget, Mr. Ferrer has hewed more closely to his earlier agenda, saying as recently as Tuesday afternoon that "the towers of the World Trade Center have crumbled, but our priorities have not." His construction priorities include projects like the freight rail tunnel to New Jersey and new subway lines, which, while desirable, cannot be tackled until the existing infrastructure is restored.
An example of Mr. Ferrer's refusal to face reality was a moment in last night's debate when he insisted that as mayor he would increase the budget for parks. "Parks are an important part of the quality of living in our city," he said. No one would argue, but leading the public to believe that the parks budget may get bigger in the foreseeable future is borderline irresponsible. The next mayor will inherit a budget gap of at least $4 billion and probably much more. He will have to struggle to find money for police, firefighters and teachers. Although Mr. Green has been far from eager to deliver any specific bad news, he has been more forthright in saying that many of his old goals would have to be deferred.
The next mayor needs to hit the ground at a full stride on Jan. 1 with a ready-made staff of experts chosen for experience, not political connections. All the candidates need to give voters a better and more detailed idea of whom they will hire and how they will keep the city afloat while rebuilding after the attack. So far, the Democrats' clearest plans involve the role each envisions for Mayor Rudolph Giuliani. Mr. Green supports Mr. Giuliani's very bad idea to stay on three months beyond his scheduled departure time. Mr. Ferrer opposes that, but says he would name Mr. Giuliani as head of the Lower Manhattan redevelopment project -- a situation Mr. Green says would create, in effect, two mayors at the same time.
Democrats will decide between Mr. Green and Mr. Ferrer in a runoff next Thursday. The winner will face the Republican nominee, Michael Bloomberg, in November. Mr. Bloomberg, a businessman, has so far focused more on a general touting of his own management skills than a specific agenda for rebuilding and balancing the budget. That must change once the runoff is over. At that point, Mayor Giuliani and his team should also be prepared to help out by briefing both nominees, bringing them up to speed in order to maintain continuity no matter who wins. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); MAYORS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); HISTORY (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (73%); TERRORISM (72%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); HIJACKING (72%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (68%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (50%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); DEBATING 

PERSON: FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



112 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE NORTHERN BORDER; 
Vast U.S.-Canada Border Suddenly Poses a Problem to Patrol Agents

BYLINE:  By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: SWEETGRASS, Mont., Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Raise the issue of illegal immigrants sneaking across the border, and images come to mind of people wading across the Rio Grande or hiking across a scorching desert.
 But for United States Border Patrol officials like Robert Finley, chief agent for a nearly 500-mile stretch of the United States-Canadian border here in the Great Plains, there are other situations to worry about now as he faces new mandates to secure the border against terrorists. 
 "There are all kinds of means to get across the prairie illegally," said Mr. Finley, whose district runs from the Continental Divide in Montana well into North Dakota. "People use bicycles here, they drive in on snowmobiles. They come over by horseback." 
Mr. Finley's concerns highlight the difficulties officials face as they race to tighten this country's 5,000-mile northern border. 
While Congress is set to triple the number of agents along the world's longest nonmilitarized boundary, those agents will have to accomplish very different missions in very different places. In the vast stretches of Rocky Mountain and Plains states, a more secure border would mean trying to close an open prairie. At the major urban crossings, it would mean stepping up security at the risk of creating the gargantuan backups that have occurred in the last three weeks. 
And while calls for a crackdown on the border here are understandable, they run counter to what had been the primary mission for customs, immigration and Border Patrol agents before the Sept. 11 attacks: to fulfill the promise of the North American Free Trade Agreement, to make the border as unobtrusive as possible and to build on the world's largest bilateral trade flow, now $420 billion a year. 
But that is no longer true, as Attorney General John Ashcroft and others vow to make border crossings more rigorous. While about 8,000 patrol agents are along the United States-Mexico border, just 300 are on the much longer Canadian front, which includes Alaska's boundary with western Canada.
"It'd be nice to be able to go 24/7 in some places," said Mr. Finley, noting that most of the 13 ports of entry in Montana were not staffed from 6 p.m. to 9 a.m. During those hours, some crossings are blocked with a locked gate; others have only an orange cone to show that they are officially "closed." Patrol chiefs like Mr. Finley consider themselves lucky to have one agent on duty for every 50 miles or more of boundary.
The call for a crackdown is posing equally vexing problems at the border's busiest crossings. 
Four such spots -- Blaine, Wash., near Vancouver; Port Huron, Mich.; Detroit; and Buffalo, N.Y. -- together account for nearly three-quarters of all crossings between the United States and Canada. Since Sept. 11, each has been the site of enormous delays, some stretching more than four hours, as customs and immigration agents have intensified searches. In Detroit, the busiest commercial entry point from Canada into the United States, the wait at the Ambassador Bridge into Windsor, Ontario, was about 45 minutes this afternoon.
These delays have disrupted daily routines, because many people near these crossings live in one country and commute to the other. But their greatest impact has been economic. Commercial truckers, whose vehicles require intensive searches, have been slowed considerably. Tourism has been hurt, too. At the giant Casino Windsor, which draws 80 percent of its clientele from the United States, business has plummeted since Sept. 11.
"We are now running about 55 percent of normal," said Jim Mundy, a spokesman for the casino, which has laid off 87 employees. Casino Windsor, just across the Detroit River, is Windsor's third-largest employer, behind Ford and Daimler-Chrysler and ahead of General Motors.
Meanwhile, in Niagara Falls, N.Y., several stores at the usually bustling Prime Outlets Mall, a popular destination for shoppers, say business has been down 50 percent or more in the last three weeks. 
Here in Sweetgrass and in nearby del Bonita, where small crossing outposts are dwarfed by prairie, long lines are not the problem. 
At del Bonita, an American visitor was subjected to a 20-minute search of his vehicle and luggage by a Canadian immigration inspector, as well as a computer check of his driver's license. The procedure caused a delay for exactly one car. 
The challenge here is the vast geography that needs to be covered. "There's going to be some cracks," Mr. Finley said. "Everybody knows that. We do the best we can with the manpower we have." Even a tripling of the forces, would still leave large areas unmonitored. 
Given that many more illegal immigrants try to come across the Mexican border, according to federal estimates, such disparities are understandable.
Still, the Canadian border is not unknown to terrorists. Participants in the World Trade Center bombing eight years ago appeared to have used Canadian immigration papers to gain access to the United States. Ahmed Ressam, who was arrested by United States customs officials in December 1999 with a carload of explosives, and convicted, had tried to enter Washington State by a ferry from Victoria, British Columbia.
In the nation's capital today, the chiefs of the Customs Service and the Immigration and Naturalization Service told a Senate subcommittee that they needed more agents and better technology to guard the border. But some experts are skeptical about how much of a difference additional agents would make.
"It will have a placebo effect more than anything else," said Demetrios Papademetriou, co-director of the Migration Policy Institute, a Washington nonprofit group that studies immigration and border issues. "It may make us feel a little better. There is no way you can truly secure that border."
One proposal, advanced by Paul Cellucci, the United States ambassador to Canada, would require the two countries to so enmesh their immigration laws and monitoring procedures that the border itself would be all but invisible. 
After Sept. 11, such concepts are even more firmly rooted in the realm of fantasy. Even the more realistic goal outlined in 1996 by Canada's then-minister of national revenue, David Anderson -- "a hassle-free border for honest travelers and businesses, and a brick wall for those who try to smuggle or break other laws at this border" -- seems far off. 
Congressional negotiators have agreed on the outlines of a plan for increasing border agents and providing the patrol, customs and immigration agencies with better technology. Some of the technology exists, such as remote-controlled video cameras, motion sensors and voice-recognition systems that could allow local residents to cross at all hours, even while detecting potential intruders. 
For now, though, the focus is on agents to police the border. "All the technology in the world doesn't do me any good," said Mr. Finley of the Border Patrol, "if I don't have an agent to respond to it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert V. Kuntz, a federal border agent, in Del Bonita, Mont. (Larry Beckner for The New York Times); Trucks were backed up yesterday about six miles, or 45 minutes, near the Ambassador Bridge, which links Windsor, Ontario, and Detroit. (Don McArthur/The Windsor Star)(pg. B7); A truck left Del Bonita, Mont., yesterday after the driver was questioned by the border's port director. The crossing is 40 miles from Cut Bank, Mont., the next American city. (Larry Beckner for The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); REFUGEES (78%); HIJACKING (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); LAWYERS (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (54%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (84%)

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (79%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (79%) MONTANA, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALASKA, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (79%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (58%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (96%); NORTH AMERICA (96%); MEXICO (79%) CANADA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



113 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: After Deaths, Bus Riders Wonder, 'Is Anything Safe?' 

BYLINE:  By JOHN W. FOUNTAIN 

DATELINE: CHAMPAIGN, Ill., Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Here, in a bustling college town where Greyhound is often the next best thing to having your own set of wheels for getting home, news of the bus attack in Tennessee early this morning left students wondering, Is anything safe anymore?
 That question swirled this afternoon around the campus of the University of Illinois, where Bartholomew Sojka, 22, sat in the Student Union lobby. A Greyhound traveler who makes the 125-mile trip by bus from college to Chicago at least three times a year, Mr. Sojka said he would think twice about taking the bus again. 
 "It's like you feel like you can't be safe anymore anywhere," Mr. Sojka, a senior liberal arts major, said. "It's like you could either ride the bike, take your car or walk. And even walking is getting a little dangerous."
Mr. Sojka has his own car, a G20 Infiniti, on campus, but he takes Greyhound home because it is cheap ($32 a round trip), saves miles on his car and solves the parking problem in his North Side neighborhood. He plans to go home in early November, he said, but "I'm not taking Greyhound." 
While the authorities said the attack on the Greyhound driver was not related to international terrorism, it added another layer of worry for people already concerned about traveling by air. Others said they had not been deterred.
In Denver, at a downtown Greyhound terminal, Glenda Bell, a 42-year-old machine operator who is moving to St. Louis from Seattle, said, "I'm not really scared, but we just all need to be alert, watch the people around us."
In the South Station terminal in Boston this morning, Christian Ramirez, 20, a student at Emerson College, was waiting for a bus to Michigan. Mr. Ramirez said he shrugged it off when his mother called him this morning to tell him of the Tennessee incident.
"I say, 'Hey Mom, it's so crazy right now, but you can't stop your life,' " he said.
Others were more concerned. 
At the Denver bus station, An thonette Tarin, a 50-year-old day care worker from the Macy Indian Reservation in Nebraska, was on her way to San Bernardino, Calif., to visit her daughter and had chosen the bus over the plane out of fear.
"I had a dream about an eagle on my back that kept biting my finger," Ms. Tarin said, "and I took that as a sign not to fly, but maybe it meant this, that I should fly."
Loroy Adams, 20, a junior majoring in economics, said, "With the whole incident on Sept. 11 and then with this incident now, you never know what to expect. 
"Riding the bus, I will be like a little skeptical," Mr. Adams said. "I may try to find a ride home with friends in a car, try to carpool or something like that."
The American Bus Association, the industry's main trade group, said fears of traveling by bus were unwarranted. The bus industry carries about two million people a day, including those on package tours, charters and special school trips, Michele Janis, a spokeswoman for the association, said, and "motor coaches are the safest form of inter-city transportation, bar none."
Ms. Janis said that after the Sept. 11 attacks in New York and at the Pentagon, Greyhound ridership rose 50 percent in some markets, but that it had not translated to an overall increase in bus travel.
The attacks have "had a chilling effect on travel," she said. "People don't want to leave their homes."
Greyhound service around the country was halted throughout this morning after the incident in Tennessee, and many stranded passengers expressed frustration. 
Les L. Thomas, 46, of Tuskegee, Ala., was headed home from visiting a relative in Detroit, and got as far as Atlanta when bus service was halted.
"I guess we'll just sit here," Mr. Thomas said. "That's all I know to do till they get the bus running. It's too far to walk from here to Tuskegee."
In New York, Gary Coles, district manager for Greyhound's northeast corridor, said about 30 buses leaving the Port Authority terminal were affected by the shutdown, which began at 7:30 a.m.
The mood at the terminal was particularly somber because many people there are mourning the Port Authority Police officers missing after the attack on the World Trade Center. A sprawling memorial of flowers and flags, pictures and poems dominates the terminal's center hallway.
But even with news of the attack on the Greyhound driver, some people said they were determined to go about life as usual.
"I'm not at all thinking about canceling my trip," said Joe Arango, 44, a Bronx plumber who was scheduled to take a Greyhound to Manchester, N.H., for a job. "Mayor Giuliani wants the American people to use the rails and buses so I feel it's my obligation. It's my patriotic duty to do what I got to do."
But Mr. Arango's wife, Helen Smith-Arango, said: "I'd still rather a bus than a plane, but I'm not going anywhere for a long time. I'm just here to see him off. Then I'm going back home."
Here in Champaign, Mr. Sojka seemed just as concerned as Ms. Smith-Arango. 
"We've got to deal with it every day," he said, shaking his head. "In our classes, it's the topic. On the quad it's the topic, at home, with our friends. It's on the news.
"And every time something like this comes up, it's the topic to talk about." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (89%); SCHOOL & EMPLOYEE BUS SERVICES (77%); TERRORISM (72%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BUSES; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

ORGANIZATION: GREYHOUND LINES INC 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4131 INTERURBAN & RURAL BUS TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: FOUNTAIN, JOHN W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); MANCHESTER, NH, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) MANCHESTER (TENN)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



114 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: U.S. TAKES BIG ROLE IN AIRLINES' CRISIS 

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN 

 BODY:
Using power granted by emergency legislation, the federal government is taking on its biggest role in shaping the nation's airlines since the industry was deregulated a generation ago, government officials and airline executives say. 
 By determining which airlines will receive $10 billion in federal loan guarantees and on what terms, the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, established under the bailout legislation passed two weeks ago, will wield extraordinary power to determine which airlines survive the current crisis and in what financial condition. 
 "It's clear that the board will have a considerable amount of discretion," said David M. Walker, the comptroller general of the United States and a board member.
The actions of the board, which is led by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, and includes the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill, and the transportation secretary, Norman Y. Mineta, are already raising uncomfortable questions about the role of government in the marketplace. 
In the rush to sustain the industry, whose executives warned of imminent bankruptcies, the bailout legislation passed both the House and Senate by overwhelming margins and was endorsed by the Bush administration. Along with $10 billion in loan guarantees, the airlines were awarded $5 billion in cash to cover their immediate losses. 
"Once you start giving cash and loans to an industry, there is no end to the decisions that you have to make," said Robert B. Reich, the former secretary of labor who is now a professor of economics and social policy at Brandeis University. "The government becomes a kind of czar, or holding company, over the entire airline industry. It's the worst kind of industrial policy." 
Mr. Walker -- who has been through several airline bankruptcies during his years at the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation -- predicts that several carriers will be forced out of business, leaving survivors with a tighter grip on the country's biggest metropolitan airports. In recent years, the government has blocked major airline mergers but it has been reluctant to take significant action to promote competition at big airports. That may change.
"The question the government is going to have to address is should there be some reasonable limits on market shares at some hubs," he said. 
Congress was clear that it wanted the rescue package to make up the losses of healthy airlines that were thrown into crisis because of the attacks but not offer a new lease on life to carriers that were heading for failure on Sept. 10. Several airline executives said they agreed with that approach. But that places the board in the position of picking winners and losers, something all parties said they wanted to avoid. 
The country's airlines, which operate with high costs and thin profit margins, began to hemorrhage cash after the government grounded all flights for two days. Even after flights resumed, they have continued to lose tens of millions of dollars a day because of a sharp decline in passengers. 
The Bush administration opposed loan guarantees, but Congress rushed to add $10 billion in federally backed loans at the behest of the airlines. Unlike previous bailout legislation -- such as the aid package for the Chrysler Corporation in 1979 -- the law does not specify the terms of the loans. 
The Office of Management and Budget is now drawing up operating rules for the board and is supposed to issue them by Saturday. It has solicited opinions from airline executives, bankers and other experts. The intense jockeying among the airlines to influence the guidelines is an early indication of how difficult the new board's job will be.
Some carriers are pushing for tight restrictions on the loans and a short repayment period. "The loans are not intended to provide long-term underpinning for the industry," said Leo F. Mullin, the chairman of Delta Air Lines and a former banker. "They ought to be transitional, and they should be at a market rate, not a government rate."
But rival executives charge that relatively strong carriers like Delta and American Airlines are pushing for tighter restrictions on the loans in the hope that financially weaker airlines will be forced into bankruptcy. These executives have been pressing for fewer restrictions, giving the board flexibility to respond to what they say is a still developing crisis. 
"What is pretty unclear here and what is going to be the biggest challenge is that the magnitude of the problem has not been defined," said one airline executive who insisted on anonymity. 
On Tuesday, 13 senators wrote to Mitch E. Daniels, the director of the Office of Management and Budget, urging him to make the loans available to every airline. "Any attempt to make the program proscriptive and preclude certain airlines from its benefits would only put the government in the position of deciding which airlines are worthy of existing and which are not," they wrote. 
But that would end up supporting airlines that were doomed to fail before Sept. 11, critics say, something the senators said they opposed. 
It now appears that the board will be given broad discretion. But almost any action it takes, executives say, will color their decisions and distort market forces. For example, if the rules indicate that loans will not be extended to airlines who have filed for bankruptcy protection, carriers that might otherwise have filed for Chapter 11 may hold off in the hope that they can secure a loan. 
Despite deregulation, the airline industry has been heavily influenced by government intervention for years. In July, the Justice Department blocked the proposed $4.3 billion takeover of US Airways by United Airlines because it said that the deal would hurt consumers. 
The decision led Wall Street analysts and airline executives to conclude that industry consolidation, something many believe inevitable to insure the long-term financial health of the industry, would have to be put off for several years. 
"The best kind of industrial policy is one that acknowledges the role government has and focuses on the public interest but doesn't get into the details of individual companies," said Professor Reich, who has been a strong advocate of government intervention in the market in the past. "This is an industrial policy designed for shareholders of the winning companies." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); AIRLINES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); MERGERS (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); TERRORISM (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; TERRORISM; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; BANKRUPTCIES; AIRPORTS 

COMPANY: PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (84%) AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (65%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (65%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (53%) ZUCKERMAN, LAURENCE; WALKER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



115 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CHARITY; 
Totaling Up the Damage, and Not Forgetting the Tips

BYLINE:  By AARON DONOVAN 

 BODY:
After she graduated from Long Island University's C. W. Post campus with a B.A. in philosophy in May, Kristina Leath felt confident getting a nicer apartment. She had a job as a waitress at Windows on the World, and the money was good.
 Actually, the tips were good. Her pay from the restaurant itself was $3.57 an hour -- less than minimum wage. But with tips included, she earned about $40,000 a year, enough to pay her utility bills and the rent on her fourth-floor walk-up apartment in Long Island City, Queens. The rent alone is more than $1,000 a month. 
 Windows on the World, the upscale 24-hour restaurant at the top of the World Trade Center, used to be known as one of the premier places in the city to be a waiter or bartender -- the pay was lucrative, the schedule flexible and the workers like a family. It was enough to make Ms. Leath, 29, and her co-worker Franklin James, 23, both aspiring performers, put their careers on hold for a while and focus instead on enjoying their 20's in New York City.
Neither of them was working the morning of Sept. 11, and both said they felt lucky to be alive. (Windows on the World, which had 450 employees, lost all 73 who were working at the time of the attack, a spokesman said.)
But when their place of work was destroyed, their income vanished. "It's amazing how 25 minutes can change your life," said Mr. James, who like Ms. Leath served food at the Greatest Bar on Earth, on the 107th floor of the north tower.
After the towers were destroyed, the restaurant gave out paychecks -- $106 for Ms. Leath and $82 for Mr. James. Both of them applied for unemployment benefits and received $204 a month each.
The tips, of course, stopped coming. "Waiters have been really hurt by this," Mr. James said. "There's no way you can be compensated for tips."
The utility bills that came in during September were far more than Ms. Leath's income that month, and her savings were reduced to just a few hundred dollars. "Half my bills weren't paid, half my rent wasn't paid," Ms. Leath said. "I didn't even have an idea how I would look at the bills for October."
Her friend Mr. James, who also lives alone, in the Crotona Park neighborhood in the Bronx, faced similar circumstances. But after a co-worker told Ms. Leath about the Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service, one of the 10 local charities supported by The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund, the two were able to get the financial help they needed. 
The agency provided Ms. Leath with $986.37, which included the balance of her September rent, $620, and $100 for food. Mr. James received $873, including $483 for rent and $100 for food. The rest of the money they received went toward utilities.
Ms. Leath, a trained opera singer, has been hired to join a gospel group that is leaving on Oct. 28 for a tour of Europe. Mr. James has several job interviews scheduled and is optimistic that he will find a job before the end of the month.
Both are confident about the future, but not about the present. "When you're sitting here in an apartment with this size rent, and you're looking at a $200 unemployment and $100 Windows check," Ms. Leath said, "you're freaking out."
Maje Waldo, a social worker at the bureau, made the decision to help the two, but it was Mary Rick, an office manager who greeted all the people seeking help and cheerfully wrote out checks, who made the biggest impression on Mr. James and Ms. Leath. 
So much so that Mr. James is considering a career in social work, and has begun meeting with social service agencies. "I don't think she realized how much she changed my life," Mr. James said. "She must have the best feeling when she goes home at night, knowing that she helps so many people."

HOW TO HELP

Checks payable to The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund should be sent to P.O. Box 5193, General Post Office, New York, N.Y. 10087, or any of these organizations:

BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE
285 Schermerhorn Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK
1011 First Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022.

CATHOLIC CHARITIES, DIOCESE OF BROOKLYN AND QUEENS
191 Joralemon Street, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201.

CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK
105 East 22d Street, New York, N.Y. 10010.

FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES
281 Park Avenue South, New York, N.Y. 10010.

JOHN JAY COLLEGE OF CRIMINAL JUSTICE FOUNDATION
899 10th Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY FIRE SAFETY FOUNDATION
555 West 57th Street
New York, N.Y. 10019

NEW YORK CITY POLICE FOUNDATION
345 Park Avenue
New York, N.Y. 10154

UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK*
FDR Station
P.O. Box 5314
New York, N.Y. 10150

Donations may be made with a credit card online, courtesy of CharityWave.com, an internet donations service.

No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times 9/11 Neediest Fund.

The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance.

Contributions to the fund are deductible on Federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law.

*New address as of 9/12

GRAPHIC: Photo: Franklin James and Kristina Leath made good livings at Windows on the World, but not from their wages. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MINIMUM WAGE (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (72%); HIJACKING (69%); AIRLINES (68%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (67%); TERRORISM (65%); MISSING PERSONS (64%); PHILANTHROPY (60%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; NEW YORK TIMES NEEDIEST CASES FUND; RESTAURANTS; PHILANTHROPY; LABOR 

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (91%) ;WINDOWS ON THE WORLD (NYC RESTAURANT); BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (50%)

PERSON: DONOVAN, AARON 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



116 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: San Antonio Journal; 
A Forum Recalls Unheeded Warnings

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON 

DATELINE: SAN ANTONIO, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
A certain I-told-you-so atmosphere wafts through the speeches and conversations of former intelligence officials, army special forces commanders and police chiefs attending a security industry convention here.
 "We've been talking for years about how terrorists would try to use weapons of mass destruction against American targets," Brig. Gen. Bob Disney, retired, of the New York Army Guard, said. But journalists and government leaders largely ignored past meetings of his group, he said. "Had the word gotten out, maybe we'd have been better prepared." 
 Henry A. Nocella, a former marine and security executive who was another organizer of the convention, said: "Nobody thought these things could happen in the U.S. America had a perception of its own invulnerability." 
"But Sept. 11 has changed that," Mr. Nocella said, joining the conversation minutes before a workshop today on global terrorism. "Now people sense our vulnerability." 
If past meetings of the American Society for Industrial Security, a private group based in Virginia, have gone largely unnoticed, this year has been different. The group's meeting has drawn thousands of participants and hundreds of journalists, scores more than usual, to San Antonio's convention center this week.
Some government officials who addressed the convention added their own regrets about warnings gone unheeded.
John Magaw, acting director of national preparedness at the Federal Emergency Management Agency, told an audience today that over the past dozen years, "two or three reports" were written urging the authorities to "prepare for an aircraft hitting one of our big buildings."
The reports, Mr. Magaw said, "kind of drew dust."
"The tragic events of Sept. 11 have reminded all Americans that we're not invulnerable to these kinds of attacks," he said. "It was the final big warning. But just like Pearl Harbor, there were lots of earlier warnings."
Warnings certainly dominated the agenda at this meeting. Government officials and private security industry executives, many of them retired intelligence, military and law enforcement officials, described many if not most features of the American landscape as vulnerable to terrorist attack. The country's water and food supplies, transportation and energy grids, industrial complexes, even libraries and community centers, could become targets, they said.
"Yes, there is the potential for chemical and biological attacks," President Bill Clinton's defense secretary, William S. Cohen, told an audience today.
American intelligence has documented efforts by Osama bin Laden to acquire the means to build biological and chemical weapons, Mr. Cohen said. Terrorists might try to cause a contagion of anthrax or smallpox, Mr. Cohen said.
The practice of vaccinating American citizens against the latter disease was ended in 1972, as the disease was practically eradicated worldwide, and today the government has only 6 to 12 million doses of the vaccine, he said.
"You'll see the government start increasing the doses on hand," Mr. Cohen predicted.
Even before the convention, questions of national security have been raised in San Antonio recently. In the days after the Sept. 11 attacks, the authorities in Fort Worth detained two men, headed for San Antonio, who were carrying box cutters and who investigators believe may have been preparing for a hijacking.
One of the most sobering expositions at this week's meeting came from Roger G. Breeze, an administrator at the Department of Agriculture. It would be relatively simple for someone with sinister intent to introduce foot-and-mouth disease, or other crippling livestock maladies prevalent on other continents that do not exist in North America, into herds of American livestock, he said. He knew of no specific terrorist threat, he said, and added that officials are prepared to control the disease whatever its origin.
To contain outbreaks of foot-and-mouth disease in recent years, authorities in Britain and Taiwan have been forced to slaughter millions of infected animals. Effective preventive measures have kept the disease out of the United States since 1929.
But current agriculture practices, in which many American feedlots have 100,000 cattle or more, mean that applying the usual response to such diseases would be traumatic, Mr. Breeze said. Just to bury the cattle from one big feedlot would require a trench 10 feet deep, 10 feet wide and 25 miles long, he said.
Peter Probst, a retired Central Intelligence Agency official who is an author and consultant, and who delivered a talk today on the future of terrorism, agreed with Mr. Breeze's warnings to farmers.
"Agriculture is the soft underbelly of the American economy," Mr. Probst said. "It's an absolutely vital sector, but it's terribly difficult to protect."
As the experts outlined alarming possibilities, in a vast exhibition hall hundreds of companies were clamoring to market the new gadgetry they said could help protect the country: digital surveillance cameras, high-technology locks, fiber-optic fences, and laser-guided handguns.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A conference of security experts featured displays of items like a high resolution digital camera, which is able to record images in low light. (Mark Matson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (91%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (89%); ANTHRAX (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (83%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); CONVENTION & TRADE SHOW PLANNING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); HIJACKING (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INVESTIGATION & SECURITY SERVICES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); VACCINES (67%); MISSING PERSONS (64%); AIRLINES (64%); SMALLPOX (62%); POLICE FORCES (58%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INDUSTRIAL SECURITY (82%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (54%) AMERICAN SOCIETY FOR INDUSTRIAL SECURITY 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%); BILL CLINTON (51%) DILLON, SAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



117 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 81 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Australia: Australia: Rates Lowered 

BYLINE:  By Becky Gaylord (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The Reserve Bank of Australia cut a crucial lending rate, the fifth time this year the central bank reduced interest rates. 
The overnight cash rate target now stands at 4.5 percent, down from 4.75 percent. Ian Macfarlane, the governor of the Reserve Bank, said global economic conditions had continued to soften in recent months. He added that the terrorist attacks in the United States would aggravate the downturn not only in Australia, but also internationally. Becky Gaylord (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (84%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (84%); TERRORISM (52%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA (93%)

ORGANIZATION: RESERVE BANK OF AUSTRALIA 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (93%); SIC6019 CENTRAL RESERVE DEPOSITORY INSTITUTIONS, NEC (93%)

PERSON: GAYLORD, BECKY 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



118 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Syracuse: Indians Awarded $248 Million

BYLINE:  By Hope Reeves (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 A federal judge has raised the amount the state owes the Cayuga Indian Nation to nearly $248 million from $36.9 million, court documents show. 
The judge said Tuesday that the lower figure granted by a jury last year was inadequate interest on the value of more than 64,000 acres in Cayuga and Seneca Counties that were illegally seized more than 200 years ago. The tribe plans to use whatever money is awarded to buy back land there. The state plans to appeal the decision, saying the amount is too high. The tribe also plans to appeal, saying it is too low. An economist who testified for the tribe estimated lost interest at $1.7 billion. Hope Reeves (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (90%) INDIANS, AMERICAN; CAYUGA INDIANS 

PERSON: REEVES, HOPE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SYRACUSE, NY, USA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



119 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL SHOPPER; 
For the Weary, Pillows to Fall Back On

BYLINE:  By Marianne Rohrlich 

 BODY:
 BUYING a bed pillow used to mean choosing a standard rectangle filled with down or the same size rectangle filled with synthetic fiber or foam rubber. One size, three fillings. Now, you can lose a night's sleep over the choices. There are pillows for backaches, neck aches and leg aches. Then there are the fills, from feathers, down and Dacron to space-age gels and foams that respond to body size, shape and temperature.

1. Clockwise from top: Swedish Tempur-Pedic pillows are made of an elastic material, originally developed for NASA, that molds to the shape of the neck and head; they range from child-size to extra thick for people over 5 feet 10 inches tall and 180 pounds; the one shown is a travel neck pillow, with its cover, $80 at Brookstone, (800) 846-3000, or www.brookstone.com. (The rest of the pillows are shown without their covers.)
 A ripply lumbar support of foam is $39.99 at Bed Bath & Beyond, www.bedbathandbeyond.com or (800) 462-3966. 
The U-shaped Smart-Foam neck pillow is available for $19.99 at Target, (888) 304-4000 or www.target.com. 
A contour leg pillow of urethane foam eases the lower back by aligning the knees and hips. It is $9.99 at Bed Bath & Beyond. 
An orthopedic pillow of egg-cratelike foam rubber is $14.99 at Economy Foam, 173 East Houston Street (First Avenue). 
At center: A standard-size Smart-Foam pillow, also of an elastic-foam material that supports the head and neck comfortably, is $29.99 at Target.

2. From top: A U-shaped pillow filled with polyester fiberfill is $9.99 from Economy Foam.
Some of the following, all from Bed Bath & Beyond, come in synthetic fill or down and in soft, medium or firm. 
Neck rolls in fiberfill are $19.99 to $24.99.
A boudoir-size pillow is $24.99; standard, 20 by 26 inches, is $5.99 to $179.99; queen size, 20 by 30 inches, $7.99 to $229.99; king size, 20 by 36 inches, $7.99 to $249.99. 
A body pillow, 20 by 54 inches, is $9.99 to $19.99. 

3. There are special cushions for people who read in bed; some come with surprising amenities.
Left, a gray fleece-covered bed rest filled with high-density foam has a battery-operated reading lamp with a flexible neck and a built-in back massager with a 30-minute timer; $125 at Brookstone. 
Right, a khaki polyester-covered bed rest is $19.99 at Bed Bath & Beyond.
On the walls and on the beds: American and French vintage ticking fabrics, some as long as 16 feet and as wide as 80 inches, from $425 (top left) to $850 (top right). From a collection at Paula Rubenstein, 65 Prince Street (Crosby Street).
Not shown: Cotton-filled pillows for those allergic to down or synthetic fillings. The boudoir size is $35; standard, $52; queen, $62; king, $65; European square, $65. All from the Garnet Hill catalog, (800) 622-6216 or www.garnethill.com.

GRAPHIC: Photos (Photographs by Carin and David Riley for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SYNTHETIC FIBERS (89%); POLYETHYLENE TEREPHTHALATE (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ORTHOPEDICS (69%) BEDS AND BEDDING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: BED BATH & BEYOND INC (83%)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (83%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (83%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (83%)

PERSON: ROHRLICH, MARIANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



120 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Fidelity Investments Agrees To Help Rescue Colt Telecom 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct 3 

 BODY:
Fidelity Investments agreed today to bail out the Colt Telecom Group, a struggling British provider of voice and data services to companies, by helping it to raise roughly $:400 million ($590 million) of fresh equity.
 Fidelity, the giant American mutual fund company, holds a 47.7 percent stake in Colt through its venture capital arm. It has promised to buy new shares that will lift its stake to 54 percent, and has pledged to buy any remaining shares not sold to other investors. If it were to buy all 649 million shares on offer for 62 pence each, its stake would rise to 72.7 percent, the companies said. 
 The venture capital division, Fidelity Ventures, has bet big on nascent providers of telecommunications services and equipment, including ONI Systems of San Jose, Calif., a maker of fiber optic equipment, whose shares have fallen 86 percent this year.
"The business environment is brutal for all of those companies," said Scott Cooley, an analyst with Morningstar, the Chicago-based mutual fund tracking company. "There will probably be a few winners on the service side, and they will be the deep-pocketed companies."
Colt Telecom was founded in 1992 with an initial investment from Fidelity Ventures. It was one of several upstarts emboldened by the deregulation of European telecommunications markets and the accompanying high-technology boom to compete with former state monopolies like British Telecommunications. But with the economic downturn and the slowing of technology purchases, Colt's customers have delayed buying communications services.
In the last year, shares of Colt Telecom have lost 94 percent of their value. The stock rose 21 pence today, or 34 percent, to 83 pence.
Shares of other alternative carriers also gained on hopes that they, too, would get a financial bailout.
But analysts said this was unlikely, since most of Colt's competitors do not have a deep-pocketed shareholder willing to invest extra cash.
"Colt is a special situation," said Amanda Neff, an analyst with CIBC World Markets.
Atlantic Telecom, based in Scotland, is fast running out of cash; Ms. Neff estimates it has enough to last through the end of the year. But do not expect Marconi, one of its largest shareholders, with about 19 percent, to come to the rescue, she said.
Marconi, a telephone equipment maker, has been laying off workers in an effort to conserve capital as it faces a steep decline in demand for its own products. And the British utility company National Grid has said it intends to sell its 34.6 percent stake in the British Internet carrier Energis.
Colt said that British regulators had waived a requirement that Fidelity, a unit of the FMR Corporation, make an offer to all outstanding shareholders if its stake rises above 50 percent. It said the proceeds from the share sale would be used to complete its network and to provide additional services to its customers, which include the London Stock Exchange and Buckingham Palace. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (95%); MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); FIBER OPTICS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (75%); STOCK OFFERINGS (75%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (94%); COLT GROUP SA (90%); NATIONAL GRID PLC (61%); COLT TELECOM GROUP LTD (58%); CIBC WORLD MARKETS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FIDELITY INVESTMENTS; COLT TELECOM GROUP 

TICKER: COLT (LSE) (90%); NGG (NYSE) (61%); NG (LSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (94%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (94%); NAICS518210 DATA PROCESSING, HOSTING & RELATED SERVICES (90%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (61%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (61%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (61%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (61%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (52%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (52%)

PERSON: KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (76%); LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (88%); UNITED STATES (79%); SCOTLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



121 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words

HEADLINE: Sabena of Belgium Gets Loan and Asks For Court Protection 

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Sabena, Belgium's ailing airline, sought protection from creditors today, and the Belgian government provided a $115 million bridge loan for one month to try to salvage at least part of the airline.
 Sabena's decision to seek court protection followed Swissair's announcement on Tuesday that it would not pay its share of a $395 million rescue package it promised Sabena in July. 
 "This was the last straw," said Wilfried Remans, a spokesman for Sabena. The airline's pilots had been on strike for four days before the Swissair decision to back out of the rescue plan, costing Sabena $2.7 million a day. Other recent strike actions were discouraging travelers from making reservations on Sabena even before the attacks on Sept. 11, Mr. Remans said. 
Still, unlike Swissair, which owns 49.5 percent of the Belgian carrier, Sabena continues to fly. "We have seen at least 20 bookings on Sabena flights today," said Francine Decraen, a travel agent with Carlson Wagonlit in Brussels. But she added that some travelers were asking to travel on flights other than Sabena's.
And despite their partnership, Sabena is refusing to honor Swissair tickets for its flights. "Sabena is not helping Swissair in any way," said Monica Bielsa, a saleswoman for all airlines in the Qualiflyer group alliance, which includes Swissair and Sabena. 
The Belgian government's loan is intended to allow Sabena enough time to recreate itself, possibly as a European regional carrier, a move that could protect at least some of its 12,000 jobs.
Prime Minister Guy Verhofstadt of Belgium said today that with more than 20 million annual passengers at the Brussels airport and with Brussels as the capital of the 15-nation European Union, "it should be possible to have a performing airline that specializes in Europe."
The Belgian government, which owns 50.5 percent of Sabena, said that it would take Swissair to court because it had not lived up to its commitments. Swissair bought into Sabena in 1995, promising to turn around the airline, which has turned in an annual profit only once since 1958. 
The Belgian government is also in talks with the transport and competition offices of the European Commission to secure approval of its financial assistance to Sabena. The commission, which has been critical of government support for airlines, has asked Belgium to submit its plans.
The commission is expected to decide next Wednesday whether to allow government support to airlines.
"We expect to adopt an E.U.-wide policy regarding national measures that can be justified by the exceptional circumstances created by the attacks on the United States," said the transportation commissioner, Loyola de Palacio.
Michael Tscherny, a commission spokesman for competition issues, said the commission "does not want to see general support for the airlines as there was in the past." He added that state aid should not be used to keep afloat companies whose problems do not stem just from the Sept. 11 attacks.
The latest rescue plan for Sabena called for cutting about 10 percent of the work force, dropping routes and reducing its fleet of 87 aircraft, most of which are leased. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRAVEL TICKETS (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); STRIKES (76%); PORT STRIKES (75%); TRAVEL AGENTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); APPROVALS (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT; FINANCES 

COMPANY: SABENA BELGIAN WORLD AIRLINES SA (92%); CARLSON WAGONLIT TRAVEL INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: SABENA WORLD AIRLINES; SWISSAIR GROUP 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (55%)

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (92%) BELGIUM (98%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) BELGIUM

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



122 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Governments Intervene to Prop Up AilingAirlines 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Deeply embarrassed by the sudden grounding of Swissair on Tuesday, stranding thousands of passengers around the world, the Swiss government stepped in today with a bailout to get the airline flying again.
 The company said it would operate about half of its usual flights on Thursday, and would add more on Friday. 
 The government agreed to lend Swissair $280 million to pay back fuel bills, airport fees and other costs because the airline's banks did not want the airline to use their money to resume flying, officials said.
Airline officials, banks and government ministers exchanged acrimonious accusations of incompetence and profiteering, a highly unusual spectacle in a business culture usually characterized by clubby professionalism and decision by consensus. 
"It's the image of Switzerland that is at stake," said the finance minister, Kasper Villiger, explaining the government's decision at a news conference in Bern, the capital. Noting the country's pride in Swissair's longtime reputation for sterling service and reliability, Mr. Villiger said, "this crisis has caused huge damage." 
When trading resumed today in Swissair's stock after being suspended since Monday, it plummeted 84 percent, to 6.5 Swiss francs, or $4, a minuscule fraction of its value as recently as January, when it traded for $163. The plunge is a serious blow to many ordinary Swiss, because the stock is among the country's most widely held, both in individual portfolios and in pension funds.
Swissair's former prestige was small consolation to the thousands of passengers stranded in its hub in Zurich when service was halted on Tuesday. Many were taken in for the night by sympathetic Zurich residents, or taken by bus to the city's spare civil defense bunkers. Some airlines gave discounts on replacement tickets to Swissair ticket holders, but Swissair said it could not pay any refunds.
Damage from Swissair's near-collapse spread to Belgium, where Sabena, 49.5 percent owned by Swissair, filed for a type of bankruptcy protection today. Sabena's long-running financial troubles were made worse on Monday when Swissair reneged on a $123 million payment to Sabena that it promised last summer. But Sabena, which threatened to sue Swissair, said it would keep flying.
The two airlines are among the early victims of the steep decline in international air travel after the Sept. 11 terror attacks in the United States. Since then, the market value of European airlines has plunged 29 percent, according to Bloomberg News. Money-losing carriers in Australia and the United States have also shut down.
Swissair's finances, which analysts said were "better than a bank's" in the early 1990's, were badly drained in recent years by commitments to Sabena and half a dozen other European regional carriers. In an effort to build a pan-European alliance and customer base, Swissair had taken minority stakes in the carriers that obliged it to cover their losses without giving it operational control. Because Switzerland is outside the European Union, Swissair was restricted from taking full control of the carriers.
Swissair counted on its sound reputation to make the alliance a success, but it soon began to tarnish as punctuality suffered and several of the smaller carriers, especially Sabena, proved persistently weak. Three years ago, Swissair's image was badly jolted when a flight from New York to Geneva crashed after a fire, apparently in the cockpit.
Still, the airline's reputation for deluxe and solid service kept its planes 73 percent full through the first six months of this year, despite rising fuel prices and a souring world economy. 
But the progressive unraveling of the airline after 70 years as one of Switzerland's most respected symbols began to appear when it reported a $1.8 billion loss for 2000 and shook up its management. Debts kept mounting, and when cash flow dried up after Sept. 11, the company rapidly ran out of money for daily operations.
The Swiss government, which owned 3 percent of the Swissair Group, the corporate parent, was reluctant to bail it out. But ministers changed their minds after the turmoil that followed Monday's intervention by Switzerland's two biggest banks. 
Bern's action provides a bridge over the confusion that beset the deal Swissair announced on Monday with UBS and Credit Suisse, the country's two largest banks. The banks bought Swissair's 70 percent stake in its successful regional carrier, Crossair, and Swissair said it would transfer most of its flight operations to Crossair by Oct. 28 and put the rest of the company into bankruptcy protection. The banks were to provide new credit lines to both entities.
But charges soon flew that the banks were dragging their feet in transferring money to Swissair and that they had unduly restricted the uses to which it could be put. A UBS spokeswoman, Monika Dunant, said the money had been intended from the beginning for Swissair's catering, cargo handling and other business units, which are to be sold, and not for flight operations. Apparently, Swissair officials thought differently, and found themselves on Tuesday morning without the cash needed to operate.
Some 262 flights with 19,000 ticketed passengers were immediately canceled on Tuesday, and when no new cash could quickly be found, another 400 flights with 39,000 passengers set for today were scrubbed. 
Creditors moved to seize several Swissair aircraft on the ground, including two at Heathrow Airport near London, but they were later returned to Swissair.
UBS came in for bitter criticism in Swiss newspapers for treating Swissair too tight-fistedly. The big banks are viewed uneasily by many Swiss because of disclosures that they held onto Holocaust victims' accounts after World War II, and by what many see as the banks' abandonment of the domestic market in favor of becoming players in the global financial markets.
The conservative daily Neue Zuercher Zeitung said the banks "with their clumsy, if not stupid or infamous, behavior caused unbelievable damage to the trust in our economic system, and the reputation of Switzerland and the Swiss airline industry." A front-page editorial in Tages Anzeiger of Zurich wrote of UBS's chairman, Marcel Ospel, "Never in the history of this country has a democratically elected government been so humiliated by a bank manager."
The banks "snatched up the best part and left the rest behind," said Joerg Drittenbass of the Swiss airline workers' union, referring to the purchase of control of Crossair.
UBS, which has taken the lead role by putting up 51 percent of the money in the restructuring plan announced on Monday, said it had been unfairly singled out for blame in the Swissair debacle. The bank, confronted today with demonstrations by Swissair employees carrying "United Bandits of Switzerland" placards, said the rescue package, while "tough," was realistic and "unprecedented in size in Swiss history," and said Swissair had waited far too late before asking for help.
"Swissair faced up to restructuring only when it was out of cash. It was really a one-minute-to-midnight discussion," Ms. Dunant said. "We had warned Swissair that the situation was extremely grave," but Mario Corti, the chief executive, consistently took a more optimistic view.
A prominent financial commentator, Beat Kappeler of the Zurich weekly Weltwoche, said that situation would not shake the Swiss economy, despite the expected loss of thousands of Swissair jobs. Service by Crossair on former Swissair routes "will make the current shock effect disappear in time," he predicted.
But the precipitous fall of a proud symbol rankles all the same. "It hurts right now," said Philippe Mottaz of Swiss television, "We thought our business elite was brilliant, but it turns out they weren't, and it's hard to take."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "More Fallout"Swissair's stock price has fallen almost to zero as its troubles have mounted. Graph tracks Swissair stock price, in Swiss francs, from April through October.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AIRPORTS (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); AIRPORTS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT; FINANCES 

COMPANY: SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (92%); SABENA BELGIAN WORLD AIRLINES SA (85%); PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (60%); BLOOMBERG LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SWISSAIR GROUP 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (92%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: OLSON, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZURICH (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); BERN, SWITZERLAND (79%) SWITZERLAND (95%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); BELGIUM (77%) SWITZERLAND

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



123 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
PRESIDENT URGING UP TO $75 BILLION TO REVIVE ECONOMY

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
President Bush urged Congress today to pass a package of tax cuts and additional spending worth up to $75 billion as part of the effort to shore up the faltering economy.
 "One person laid off is one person too many," Mr. Bush said. 
 As described by Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, the administration's proposal includes a mix of tax breaks for businesses, new money for state unemployment benefits and a quicker timetable for implementing the tax cuts approved earlier in the year. 
After Mr. O'Neill laid out the package in an appearance before the Senate Finance Committee, Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, met with Congressional leaders behind closed doors and urged them to move ahead with a stimulus package, lawmakers said. Until today he had urged the White House and Congress to wait for a clear picture of the economic outlook in the wake of the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
After the meeting, which also included former Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, Republican and Democratic leaders said they would support an economic recovery plan of the scale suggested by Mr. Bush. But they said there was no agreement yet on the plan's components, and some Republicans expressed concerns about spending increases.
Speaking to reporters in New York after meeting a group of business executives, Mr. Bush said that "our government will do everything we can to get our economy growing, to make it as strong as possible."
In his appearance before the Finance Committee, Mr. O'Neill said the administration would like to help individuals by accelerating the timetable for enacting the income tax rate reductions contained in the tax bill passed earlier this year. 
He said the administration was open to the idea of complementing the rate reductions with a one-time payment to the more than 34 million low- and moderate-income households that did not qualify for rebate checks sent out over the summer.
For companies, Mr. O'Neill backed measures that would provide tax breaks for investing in new factories, computers and other equipment. And he said the administration would like to provide states with money they could use to help extend unemployment benefits and provide laid-off workers with help maintaining their health insurance coverage.
Mr. O'Neill signaled that the White House would be flexible in negotiating the details of the plan with Congress, where the Senate is controlled by Democrats and the House by Republicans. 
Democrats said they were happy in general with the White House's approach, though they differed with some specific proposals. 
In particular, Democrats said they would prefer that the individual income tax cuts go primarily or exclusively to low- and middle-income people. Under the across-the-board reduction in tax rates favored by the administration, the benefits would accrue mostly to upper-income people, who pay the most in income taxes.
But in a sign of the tricky task the administration faces in piecing together a plan that can win broad bipartisan support, the White House's approach came in for heavy criticism from Republicans on Capitol Hill, especially conservatives who object to increased government spending and tax cuts that would be limited to low-income people. They said that the White House was caving in to demands from Democrats too quickly and dissipating the economic impact of the stimulus plan in the process.
"I have a hard time seeing where the administration's coming from on this," said Senator Fred Thompson, Republican of Tennessee.
At the Finance Committee hearing, Mr. O'Neill also got a taste of the pressure the administration faces from lawmakers and interest groups to use the recovery package to address a wide range of economic issues. Senator Frank H. Murkowski, Republican of Alaska, urged the administration to support construction of a natural gas pipeline from his state to Chicago.
Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, suggested that the government should help the technology industry by increasing purchases of computer equipment for agencies like the Internal Revenue system. Senator Jon Kyl, Republican of Arizona, proposed a tax credit for people who travel between now and the end of the year as a way of helping the beleaguered airline and hotel industries.
Mr. Bush said he had concluded that the economic plan should total $60 billion to $75 billion, a figure that would be on top of $40 billion in emergency spending and a $15 billion airline industry bailout package already signed into law following the attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.
In settling on that range, Mr. Bush threw his support behind a package at the bigger end of the range being considered in Congress, where both parties had been thinking of more like $50 billion. 
It was the first time Mr. Bush has put a figure on how big a stimulus package the administration would support, and it suggested that he was willing to push the government budget into deficit this year to deal with the economy and the costs of the campaign against terrorism. 
The surplus for the fiscal year that started on Monday is projected by the White House and Congress to be $52 billion before accounting for the cost of the stimulus plan and any additional spending for the military.
But Mr. Bush said he wanted to hold the cost of the package to within the range he suggested today, saying that letting its pricetag escalate would risk creating new economic problems by driving up long-term interest rates on borrowing like mortgages and corporate bonds. 
Economists say the prospect of lower federal budget surpluses in the coming decade -- and the virtual certainty of a deficit in the current fiscal year -- could push long-term interest rates higher.
The administration has already agreed with Congress on a $686 billion package of routine spending bills for the fiscal year that started on Monday, $25 billion more than the administration had proposed in its original budget last spring. Any stimulus package would be on top of those spending levels.
Speaking to reporters after meeting a group of business executives in New York, Mr. Bush said it was "important to be aggressive on the front end," by making sure the stimulus package was big enough to make a difference in an economy that produces $10 trillion of goods and services a year.
"But we're mindful of the effect on long-term rates, and we think that number is the right number," Mr. Bush said, referring to the $60 billion to $75 billion range.
Two of the main proposals initially put forward by Republicans in Congress for the stimulus package -- cutting the capital gains tax and reducing the corporate income tax rate -- now appear to have been dropped from consideration.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush met yesterday with business leaders in New York, including Kenneth I. Chenault, the chief executive of American Express. At rear is Lawrence B. Lindsey, the president's chief economic adviser. (Associated Press)(pg. B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (86%); EXECUTIVES (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); HIJACKING (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); TERRORISM (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (66%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (60%); SALES REBATES (58%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); ALAN GREENSPAN (72%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (59%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); RUBIN, ROBERT E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) ; WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



124 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Stocks Rally on Tax Break Plan And Words From Cisco Chief

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday after President Bush proposed a hefty package of government spending and tax breaks to revive the national economy, which appears headed toward recession after the terrorist attacks.
 Technology stocks -- helped in large measure by heartening words from the top executive at Cisco Systems -- led the market, with the Nasdaq composite index gaining nearly 6 percent. It was the index's biggest gain in more than five months. Other broad market gauges retraced some of their sharp losses after the attacks in recent days, but the Nasdaq had been the laggard before closing some of that gap yesterday. 
 The rebound in the market and a few economic indicators offer a glimmer of hope that the extreme economic slowdown reported immediately after the attacks may have been overstated. For example, the auto industry reported on Tuesday that sales declined in September, but far less than had been expected. And the Federal Reserve's decision on Tuesday to cut interest rates, its ninth move this year, should ultimately help spur consumer spending.
But economists warned yesterday that a two-day rally in stocks and a few economic indicators do not tell a complete picture. The attacks, they said, would reverberate through the labor market, retail sales and consumer habits for months to come.
"The economy didn't completely implode after Sept. 11, which was what that auto sales number told us," said Bruce Steinberg, chief economist at Merrill Lynch. "Unfortunately, some of the biggest negatives are still to come."
But yesterday, investors cheered the president's economic stimulus proposal, and sent stocks upward in a broad rally.
The technology-weighted Nasdaq composite index jumped 88.48 points, or 5.9 percent, to 1,580.81. It was the biggest gain since April 18, when it rose 8.12 percent.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 173.19 points, or 1.93 percent, to 9,123.78. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 20.95 points, or 1.99 percent, to 1,072.28.
Mr. Bush said that he would ask Congress to approve an economic stimulus plan of $60 billion to $75 billion for 2002, on top of the $40 billion in emergency spending and $15 billion in airline assistance already authorized. The plan would include investment tax credits, tax cuts for businesses and individuals, as well as additional spending.
"It's pointing to something that will probably lead people to believe that it's going to be helpful to corporate profits, which is a concern," said Steve Massocca, president and head of Trading Pacific Growth Equities. "People are looking to that and seeing a hopeful sign."
At the front of the pack, Cisco surged $2.47, or 21.5 percent, to $13.95, after John Chambers, the company's chief executive, said he was comfortable with analysts' estimates of the company's sales and earnings for the first quarter.
"That basically set the stage for the tech stocks to rally in a strong way," said Peter Cardillo, chief strategist and director of research at Westfalia Investments. "It's good news. Feeling comfortable with those analysts' estimates means that things are not getting worse but are perhaps beginning to stabilize." 
Software makers also posted significant gains. Microsoft rose $3.18, to $56.23; PeopleSoft jumped $3.14, to $23.68; Siebel Systems rose $2.55, $17.61; Veritas Software rose $3.59, to $23.49, and Check Point Software, which makes Internet security programs, gained $3.14, to $25.99.
Semiconductor stocks surged, with Linear Technology gaining $3.97, to $34.07; Xilinx rising $3.92, to $26.72, and Intel climbing $1.71, to $21.23. The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor stock index rose 34.18 points, or 9.64 percent, to 388.81.
This is the week when many companies are disclosing whether they expect their financial results to meet Wall Street forecasts. A variety of companies from clothing retailers to hotel companies said today that they would come up short. 
Stocks first fell this morning after Nortel Networks and Eli Lilly said they would miss their previous financial targets. 
But Nortel was swept higher in the rally and ended up 25 cents, to $5.54. Late Tuesday, the company said it would trim its work force by 20,000 and post a third-quarter loss of $3.6 billion because of a decrease in sales.
Eli Lilly fell $3.62, to $79.25, after it warned yesterday that it would not meet Wall Street's expectations for the fourth quarter. The company pointed to a sharp decline in domestic sales of Prozac, an antidepressant, which has slipped as generic equivalents came to market. 
Investors were also encouraged by a report released yesterday that showed a bit more strength than expected outside the manufacturing sector. After falling for two consecutive months, the National Association of Purchasing Management's nonmanufacturing index rose to 50.2 in September from 45.5 in August. Economists had been expecting a decrease to 43. A number below 50 indicates contraction in the services sector, while a number above 50 denotes expansion.
Transportation suffered the biggest drop, according to the report. There was also weakness in insurance, retail, farming and construction. But there were gains in entertainment, health and energy. An increase in new export orders and imports was responsible for the rise in the overall index, but the data were basically unchanged from August. 
Still, some analysts questioned how much the report reflected events after Sept. 11.
 --------------------

Treasuries Increase
 (By Reuters) -- Treasury bond prices rose modestly yesterday, led by longer-dated securities, as a stock market rally late in the session caused some investors to switch from shorter maturities into 10-year notes and bonds.
But the prospect of future monetary easing from the Federal Reserve after the central bank delivered its ninth interest rate cut of the year on Tuesday kept a firm tone to the market despite the stock rally.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to a price of 10 46/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.47 percent from 4.51 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 11/32, to 101 2/32. The bond's yield fell to 5.30 percent from 5.33 percent on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C7) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C7) Chart: "Freddie Mac Yields"Average for Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. participation certificates, plotted weekly. Graph tracks 15 and 30-year mortgage percentages from June through October.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); RECESSION (90%); BONDS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); HIJACKING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (68%); AIRLINES (60%); INTEREST RATES (53%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: CISCO SYSTEMS INC (96%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: ;CISCO SYSTEMS 

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (96%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JOHN T CHAMBERS (57%) DAY, SHERRI; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



125 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE LEGISLATION; 
Gain for Trade Bill That Some See as Aid in Terrorism Fight

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
House lawmakers announced a compromise agreement today that would give President Bush the authority to negotiate trade accords with limited Congressional involvement, a tool the Bush administration says will help it recruit allies in the fight against terrorism.
 House Republicans said an agreement with several moderate Democrats allowed them to schedule a committee vote on expanded trade negotiating powers, known as trade promotion authority, on Friday, with a full House vote coming as soon as next week. 
 But its prospects remained uncertain. The bill includes language that supporters say breaks new ground on incorporating traditionally Democratic concerns about labor rights and the environment into trade agreements. But it still faces strong opposition from Democratic leaders in the House, including the minority leader, Representative Richard Gephardt, and it would also have to pass the Democratic-controlled Senate. 
The accord came on the same day the Senate overwhelming ratified a trade accord with Vietnam, sharply reducing steep tariffs and other barriers that have kept trade minimal since the United States and Vietnam re-established diplomatic relations in 1995. The agreement was reached by the Clinton administration last year.
Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, has argued that after the terrorist attacks the administration needs expanded trade power to help build the alliance against terrorism. The United States needs to counter "threats to our security" by offering "economic hope" to poor nations, he said.
"America's trade leadership can build a coalition of countries that cherish liberty in all its aspects," Mr. Zoellick wrote in a recent op-ed column for The Washington Post.
The administration is seeking to start a worldwide round of trade negotiations at a summit meeting in Doha, Qatar, in November and has argued that new trade powers would give American negotiators leverage to cut a better deal. There are continuing efforts to extend the North American Free Trade Agreement across Latin America and bring Russia into the World Trade Organization, goals that administration officials say would be easier to achieve with the new authority.
The strategic arguments convinced at least some moderate Democrats that the time had come to give Mr. Bush the powers he sought.
"The real threat to our country are the millions of people who live in poverty and desperation around the world," said Representative James P. Moran, a Virginia Democrat who said he had joined the Republican-led coalition on trade. "The most potent weapon we have to fight that is free and open trade."
But the hard sell by Mr. Zoellick and Representative William M. Thomas, the Republican chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, has angered some senior Democrats, who say an immediate vote by the full House on trade authority will shatter the bipartisan comity that has prevailed since the terrorist strikes.
Representative Charles Rangel of New York, the ranking Democrat on the Ways and Means Committee, criticized Mr. Zoellick and some Republican lawmakers for seeking to use the terrorist attacks to promote a trade measure that would face heated opposition in normal times. 
"The flag is up and we are all supposed to salute," Mr. Rangel said. "But they are walking on very thin ice if they think that they can rush this through."
Most House Democrats have tended to oppose trade promotion authority, once known as fast track. They argue that it unduly restricts Congressional prerogatives to make sure that trade agreements do not undermine United States interests by impinging on its sovereign laws or subjecting American workers to unfair competition from abroad.
Enhanced trade powers were last approved by Congress in 1988, setting the stage for Nafta. President Bill Clinton's attempts to revive this authority failed repeatedly. Such trade authority usually extends for as long as seven years, or five years with a two-year renewal. 
The new compromise agreement contains language that supporters say would compel the president to address labor rights and the environment within the main text of any trade agreement, ensuring that nations do not degrade their own laws to gain a trade advantage.
But some Democrats, unions and environmental groups remain wary. They say the bill's language on labor and the environment remains too weak and that the bill does not grant Congress enough oversight.
"It's confusing to many people because it gives the appearance of making concessions on workers' rights and environmental protection when in fact it's totally inadequate," said Thea Lee, a senior official of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.. "There will be an all-out effort on our part to stop the bill."
The Vietnam trade agreement was far less contentious. The House approved the agreement last month, and the Senate, more pro-trade, added its endorsement with today's 88-to-12 vote. Mr. Bush is expected to sign the measure shortly.
Trade between the United States and Vietnam totaled only $1.2 billion last year, far smaller than United States trade with other Southeast Asian nations. Tariffs, a legacy of the war against Vietnam, remained high even after relations were normalized six years ago, and a lack of legal protections has discouraged some companies from investing there.
Some 250 American companies, including manufacturers who want to use Vietnam's relatively inexpensive but efficient labor force and some financial companies that want to sell their products in that market, pushed for approval of the measure.
Vietnam will gain freer access to the world's largest market for some exports, including shoes and farm products. But the agreement does not address market barriers to textiles and apparel, which are left for further talks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); HIJACKING (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); POOR POPULATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; LABOR 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ROBERT ZOELLICK (79%); CHARLES B RANGEL (59%); JAMES P MORAN (58%) KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); QATAR (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) UNITED STATES; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); QATAR

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



126 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 507 words

HEADLINE: An Effective, Responsible Stimulus 

 BODY:
President Bush got more specific yesterday about what he wants to do to help the economy. During a trip to meet with business leaders in New York, Mr. Bush revealed he was aiming for $60 billion to $75 billion in tax cuts and new spending, over and above the $40 billion already pledged for recovery from the terrorist attacks. It was a promising start, and the administration should now start working with Congress to deliver a stimulus package as quickly as possible. 
 Under the president's plan, the total stimulus would amount to 1 percent of gross domestic product, enough to give the economy a good shot in the arm. But its effectiveness will depend on how the relief is delivered. Mr. Bush listed a range of options yesterday, some of which are much more likely to work than others. 
 To help businesses the president suggested a range of tax breaks, including temporary tax credits for new investment, accelerated write-offs for spending on buildings and equipment, and a cut in the corporate income tax. The first of these is the best, since it would directly encourage companies to start spending. Accelerated write-offs are less precisely targeted. They would cut the cost of existing assets as well as new ones, and companies' savings might or might not be used for growth. Of least use is a cut in the corporate income tax, which would have little if any effect on businesses' decisions on investment and employment.
To help consumers, the president suggested extending the duration of cash benefits and health coverage for the unemployed, more tax rebates and accelerating his existing 10-year package of tax cuts. Extending unemployment benefits is important, particularly for people who lost their jobs as a result of the terrorist attacks. Those workers probably were not searching for new jobs before Sept. 11, and they will have trouble finding new positions in hard-hit industries like tourism and transportation. Longer support will give them time to find better matches for their skills.
Tax rebates would certainly give consumers a boost, especially if the rebates went to lower-income Americans whose purchases are most constrained by their earnings. But accelerating the tax cuts the president has won from Congress makes less sense. Most of that relief would go to people who are already relatively wealthy, and whose spending decisions are less sensitive to an infusion of extra cash. The fact that so much of the Bush tax cuts kicks in somewhere in the future is one of the reasons they have not done more to help the economy. A more important explanation is that they were directed at the wrong people.
Rather than make them happen sooner, Congress should eliminate some of those tax cuts completely, to raise money for more effective stimuli and to reassure the markets that the nation is not plunging into a long series of serious budget deficits. 
Balancing tax cuts and spending today with higher revenues in the future will help to ensure stable long-term interest rates, and a quicker recovery for the economy. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HIJACKING (76%); LAYOFFS (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (69%); CORPORATE TAX (67%); DISMISSALS (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (64%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TERRORISM; EDITORIALS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



127 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Nissan Workers Reject Union at Tennessee Plant
Employees at a Nissan factory in Smyrna, Tenn., voted by a ratio of more than 2 to 1 to reject the latest attempt by the United Automobile Workers to organize a plant operated by a foreign automaker.
 A victory was much needed for the U.A.W., whose membership has dwindled. But the results were no better than the effort to organize the same plant in 1989. Page C5. 

Bush Proposes Stimulus Package
President Bush urged Congress to pass a package of tax cuts and additional spending worth up to $75 billion. Republican and Democratic leaders said they would support an economic recovery plan of that scale, but they said they had not agreed on its components. A1.

Future Bleak for New York Economy
New York politicians, economists and business leaders are facing an economic outlook that ranges from awful to appalling. B1.

Janus Chairman to Sell 6.2% Stake
Thomas H. Bailey, the chairman of Janus Capital, the Denver mutual fund company, exercised an option in his contract to sell his 6.2 percent stake in Janus to the company's parent, Stilwell Financial, for $603 million, at least $360 million more than the market price for the shares. A spokeswoman said she expected Mr. Bailey to remain at Janus, where he supervises the company's investment policies. C2.

Agreement on Trade Authority
House lawmakers announced a compromise agreement that would give President Bush the authority to negotiate trade accords with limited Congressional interference. B1.

OPEC Considers Cutting Output
Less than a week after deciding to maintain production levels, the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries is considering a cut in output by 500,000 barrels a day. C6.

Bailout Reached for Swissair
The Swiss government stepped in with a bailout to get Swissair flying again. The company said it would operate about half of its usual flights today and would add more tomorrow. In Belgium, Sabena sought protection from creditors. World Business, Section W.

Polaroid's Survival in Question
Polaroid, which was already well down the path to insolvency before the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, finds its future even bleaker and its survival in question. Market Place. C7.

I.B.M. to Unveil Unix Computers
I.B.M. is expected to announce today a new line of Unix computers intended to challenge the market leader, Sun Microsystems. The move by I.B.M. comes a week after Sun introduced machines portrayed as an assault on the mainframe market, I.B.M.'s stronghold. Shares of I.B.M. rose $3.18, to $96.95, while Sun Microsystems rose 99 cents, to $9. C4.

File-Sharing Web Sites Are Sued
Having silenced Napster, the major record companies, joining forces with motion picture studios, filed a copyright-infringement lawsuit aimed at a new generation of music- and movie-sharing Internet sites. C4.

Fidelity to Aid Colt Telecom
Fidelity Investments agreed to bail out Colt Telecom, a British provider of voice and data services, by helping it to raise $590 million in equity. World Business, Section W.

The Outlook of Videoconferences
The reluctance by some people to travel may finally stimulate wider use of videoconferencing. Hal R. Varian: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Graph tracks the daily closing price of I.B.M. shares for the week. Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,123.78 up 173.19Nasdaq composite -- 1,580.81 up 88.4810-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.47% down 0.04The euro -- $0.9131 down 0.0055The dollar -- 120.77 yen down 0.05 Graph: "TODAY" shows Factory OrdersAugust figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: -0.3% Graph tracks figures from February through July.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (70%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (64%); RECORD INDUSTRY (64%); MAINFRAME COMPUTERS (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); TERRORISM (60%); LITIGATION (60%); COPYRIGHT INFRINGEMENT (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: JANUS CAPITAL GROUP INC (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (58%)

TICKER: JNS (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (79%); BELGIUM (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



128 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 933 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE VISIT; 
Bush Tries to Reassure Children and Executives

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

 BODY:
President Bush sought to reassure schoolchildren and corporate executives yesterday on his second visit to New York since the World Trade Center attacks, then bought five pizzas for a lunch with firefighters and grieving relatives of the missing at Engine Company 55 in Chinatown.
 "He told me I had beautiful children and to hang in there," said Robin Freund, whose husband, Lt. Peter Freund, was lost in the collapse of the World Trade Center. "And whatever he could do to help me, let him know." 
 Mr. Bush told schoolchildren in Chinatown and executives on Wall Street something similar. At a private round-table talk with some 30 business leaders, the president announced that his administration would ask Congress to authorize an additional $60 billion to $75 billion to boost consumer confidence, enhance business investment and help displaced workers. Congress has already approved $40 billion in emergency spending for disaster relief and a $15 billion bailout for the airline industry.
"I think there's no question we all agree that the events of Sept. 11 shocked our economy, just like it shocked the conscience of our nation," Mr. Bush said after the round-table discussion at Federal Hall in Lower Manhattan, the site of George Washington's inauguration.
Mr. Bush said that he told the executives -- among them Kenneth Chenault of American Express, Sanford I. Weill of Citigroup and Betsy D. Holden of Kraft Foods -- that the federal government has a "strong, active" role to play in bolstering the economy.
Mr. Bush's five-hour visit to New York was intended to portray the president as comforter of the grieving and a steward of the nation's finances. Officials said it was important that Mr. Bush chose to make his announcement about a $75 billion stimulus package in New York City, the heartbeat of the nation's economy but a city that he has shown little love for in the past. 
That relationship has strikingly changed as the president has spent hours with the families of people killed in the trade center attacks, and has also provided billions of dollars in aid. Yesterday's visit coincided with statements by city and state leaders that they would ask the federal government for $40 billion more in assistance to cover the damage from the attacks on the twin towers -- twice the amount already approved.
Not surprisingly, Karl Rove, one of the president's top advisers, was seen at the corner of Broome and Mott Streets in Chinatown deep in conversation with Brad Race, the chief of staff to Gov. George E. Pataki, and Charles A. Gargano, chairman of the Empire State Development Corporation. None of the three would say what New York was asking of Washington, but Mr. Rove offered this: "Did you ever see Carl Sagan, the astronomer, talking about the numbers of stars -- billions and billions and billions?" 
Afterward Mr. Race said that he and Mr. Gargano were asking for money to cover the cleanup in Lower Manhattan as well as for reconstruction at the trade center site. He would not put a dollar amount on the requests. "It's too much of a work in progress," he said.
Mr. Bush arrived in New York at Kennedy International Airport under heavy security. He took the presidential helicopter, Marine One, to the Downtown Manhattan Heliport, where he was met by Mr. Pataki and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani. The president then traveled in an enormous motorcade -- 22 motorcycles and 37 cars -- to Federal Hall, which sits across Wall Street from the New York Stock Exchange.
Mr. Bush met privately with the business executives and listened to what he later described as a long list of their ideas for improving the economy. Among them, Mr. Bush said, were using some sort of tax cut to put money into the pockets of consumers, giving businesses tax breaks to invest in new equipment and helping unemployed workers. 
Among the executives at the horseshoe-shaped table were Douglas N. Daft, the chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company; Gerald M. Levin, the chief executive of AOL Time Warner Inc.; Maurice R. Greenberg, the chief executive of the American International Group, one of the largest commercial insurers in the world; and Dean O'Hare, the chief executive of the Chubb Corporation, another big insurer. Mr. O'Hare said there was "just a resounding commonality of view in the room by the C.E.O.'s that the administration was doing a great job and that we're going to win this war."
Standing on the sidelines was Michael R. Bloomberg, the Republican nominee for mayor of New York City and the chief executive of the communications company that bears his name. Mr. Bush, in a not unexpected gesture to a Republican mayoral candidate, met privately with Mr. Bloomberg for 10 minutes before the discussion began. Bill Cunningham, Mr. Bloomberg's campaign strategist, said that Mr. Bloomberg told Mr. Bush that "he expects to be a full partner with the president in rebuilding New York."
Afterward, Mr. Bush went to Public School 130 in Chinatown, a school that was closed after the attacks and has since reopened. In Debra Nelson's first-grade class, the president told the students to appreciate their teachers. "You know why?" Mr. Bush said. "Because they love you. And if you've got any worries about what took place at the World Trade Center, they can help you."
From there Mr. Bush went to Engine Company 55. Along the way, a White House staff member used funds from the president's personal White House account to pay for pizzas, $11 each, at Sal's on Broome Street. Mr. Bush shared them with Engine Company 55, which still has five firefighters missing after the terrorist attacks.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Firefighters greeted President Bush yesterday and had lunch with him after he stepped off the presidential helicopter in downtown Manhattan. (Larry Downing/Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); FAMILY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); BAILOUTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (68%); DISASTER RELIEF (68%); AIRLINES (67%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (60%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); KENNETH I CHENAULT (59%); KARL ROVE (59%); SANDY WEILL (50%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



129 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE OUTLOOK; 
Only Certainty To Economists Is Dire Outlook

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
As President Bush met with corporate executives yesterday to discuss the national economy, New York politicians, economists and business leaders began to grapple with an economic outlook that ranges from awful to appalling.
 The number of jobs in the city has probably plunged by 28,000, and is likely to drop by at least 40,000 more this year -- maybe by 87,000 if the national economy stumbles into a severe recession. The unemployment rate, already edging up to 5 percent, could end the year as high as 6.7 percent, and might hit 8 percent by the end of next year. And the city's economy, which before the attack on the World Trade Center on Sept. 11 appeared likely to grow slightly in the just-ended third quarter of the year, instead shrank sharply. 
 All of these statistics come from forecasts produced by Economy.com, which specializes in regional financial data. While many economists have been reluctant to assign such specific figures to the future, they tend to agree with the thrust of the analysis, which foresees a very hard end to 2001. 
"There's going to be a very painful contraction," said Rae D. Rosen, a senior economist with the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Like many analysts, she predicts that things will improve early next year, but "a lot depends on how quickly people are in any position to rebuild."
Even if that rebuilding begins relatively soon, not everyone thinks the rebound will be sharp.
One is Stephen Kagann, the chief economist for Gov. George E. Pataki, who said yesterday that many areas that had experienced disasters like hurricanes and earthquakes had seen their economies bounce back quickly when federal aid and insurance money kicked in.
But in those places, he said, most of the damage occurred in residential areas, where homes could be repaired with relatively small sums of money. 
"When people's houses are wrecked or damaged, they can move very quickly -- I call it the Home Depot effect," Mr. Kagann said. Spending to rebuild Lower Manhattan's business district, he said, is likely to happen at a slower pace.
There are many imponderables that are making economists' crystal balls even cloudier than usual. One, of course, is the amount of federal aid and the speed at which it will arrive. So far, only $126 million in aid has trickled in to the city, according to the office of State Comptroller H. Carl McCall.
While the federal government has released $5 billion of the promised $40 billion in special spending, half of that is going to the Department of Defense and to repair the Pentagon, the comptroller's office said. The Federal Emergency Management Agency is to receive $2 billion, but some of that money will go to Pennsylvania, where a hijacked plane crashed, and Virginia, for the Pentagon. President Bush, during his visit to the city yesterday, announced that he would seek $75 billion from Congress, but that would go toward stimulating the national economy. 
The Small Business Administration said yesterday that it had approved 117 loans worth a total of $11.9 million in the wake of the disaster. That is a tiny fraction of the 759 loan applications it has received, and an even smaller fraction of 7,881 applications that businesses have requested but have not sent back to the agency.
Looming even larger are questions about war and about terrorism "Will there be a more permanent impact, or will people just hole up in their homes, with their home theaters?" asked Robert Kurtter, a senior vice president at Moody's Investors Service, which analyzes the city's economy for investors. "I don't think any of us have built in an assumption of perpetual terror attacks or war, but it's clearly a risk." 
Another question for economists is what will happen to the national economy, which had been skidding into recession before Sept. 11. That prompted Mark M. Zandi, the chief economist at Economy.com, to develop three forecasts of the aftermath, which are progressively more negative depending on the national situation.
For example, his predictions for the city's unemployment rate at the end of 2002 range from 6.4 percent to 8 percent. If the twin towers had not collapsed, that rate would have probably been about 5.2 percent, he said. 
In New York City, a group of economists and consultants is racing to put together a detailed description of the state of the city's economy before the attack, the short-term effects and the long-term outlook. The effort is being organized by the New York City Partnership, a business group, because "after the loss of lives, the loss of livelihoods is the next most urgent issue to address," said Kathryn S. Wylde, the group's president. 
The city's economy, so strong for so long, had already begun slipping before the trade center disaster. 
But the collapse of the towers toppled three of the city's most important engines of economic growth: finance, tourism and entertainment, and retailing.
The loss of life has been, of course, the worst thing. Some small but important Wall Street firms like Keefe Bruyette and Cantor Fitzgerald were devastated in the attack.
Several very large firms, like Merrill Lynch and Lehman Brothers, had to move their operations to other parts of New York and to New Jersey. Others, like Goldman Sachs, were simply shut out of their offices for almost a week.
The Securities Industry Association, the trade group for financial firms, estimates that 45,000 employees of its members and their suppliers had to leave Lower Manhattan; about 25,000 of those found space elsewhere in the city. 
The good news is that the Federal Reserve's move to slash interest rates helped keep firms' losses relatively small, said Frank Fernandez, chief economist of the Securities Industry Association. The bad news is that those operating losses do not include the billions of dollars firms have spent and will spend to replace the property that was damaged and for relocation, he said.
Many of the 14,000 businesses in Lower Manhattan that were affected by the disaster were small shops selling jewelry or cigars or offering shoe repairs. Others were restaurants that cater to the Wall Street crowd. While business seems to be coming back near the tip of the island, many shops near the trade center remain closed, and the city's consumers are keeping their credit cards in their wallets.
Empty tables are easy to find at restaurants all over Manhattan, and probably half the hotel rooms in town are vacant, said John A. Fox, senior vice president of PKF Consulting. Typically, he said, occupancy rates would be as high as 95 percent in October, one of the busiest months in New York's hotel business. "This couldn't have happened at a worse time," he said.
On the other hand, there are some signs that tourism may be ticking up a bit. "You see on a daily basis that people are regaining confidence in airlines," said Arnon A. Mishkin, a partner at the Boston Consulting Group, one of the firms working on the New York City Partnership's economic study. 
The weekend after the trade center disaster, he bought tickets to the "Lion King" -- for that day's performance, he said, adding, "You can't do that any more." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); HIJACKING (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); RECESSION (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); TRENDS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (71%); WEATHER (71%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); TERRORISM (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (68%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (66%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%); AIRLINES (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; UNEMPLOYMENT; LABOR; SMALL BUSINESS 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); HOME DEPOT INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK 

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (63%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%) EATON, LESLIE; ROSEN, RAE D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



130 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CHINATOWN; 
Chinatown, Its Streets Empty, Quietly Begins to Take Action

BYLINE:  By DEAN E. MURPHY 

 BODY:
Though it was spared physically on Sept. 11, the Chinatown that President George W. Bush visited yesterday showed signs of trauma most everywhere, from jobless workers to streets with barricades to shops teetering on bankruptcy.
 Chinatown has been transformed into a near ghost town since the attacks on the World Trade Center. Most of the tourists are gone and many of the regular Asian shoppers from New Jersey, Brooklyn and elsewhere have taken their business to Flushing, Queens, where they can drive their cars more easily. 
 At times, it has been so hard for some trucks to get in and out of Chinatown that many of the 250 or so garment manufacturers there have cut production in half. People without photo ID's, including some street vendors, have been scared away or turned away at police checkpoints, leaving long stretches of the sidewalks bare. 
Telephone service remains so spotty that some pharmacies cannot fill prescriptions because of downed computer links, some shops cannot process credit card orders and some residents cannot call for help in emergencies.
In one case, Shiun Fuhai, 67, died of a heart attack in his apartment while his wife frantically searched for a pay phone, according to the Chinese Consolidated Benevolent Association, which has been documenting some of the hardships.
"It's deceiving, because you still see people walking around, but these are local people and a lot of them are unemployed," said Don Lee, a businessman and community board member who was volunteering yesterday at the Chinese Community Center on Mott Street. "People want to think positive, but there is concern about whether we are going to make it."
Despite Chinatown's proximity to the World Trade Center -- about 12 blocks -- its business owners and residents have kept relatively quiet about their problems, moved instead by the consuming events farther to the south and roused by a newfound sense of patriotism and self-sacrifice.
A Cantonese radio station, WNSW 1430 AM, raised nearly $1.4 million in an on-air fund-raiser for the city's relief effort. The station's general manager, Tony Wong, said the company had also given away 200,000 paper American flags.
"In my 30 years in New York City, this is the first time people are united and working together," Mr. Wong said. "Chinese-Americans are feeling part of this society. You talk about assimilation; this is it."
With patronage off as much as 70 percent, some restaurant owners have turned to delivering hot meals to firefighters, construction crews and volunteers at the World Trade Center site.
"My waiters just stand around, stationary like burning candles," said Jijie Hong, who owns Shanghai Cuisine Restaurant at the corner of Mulberry and Bayard Streets. "There are no customers to serve." 
But in recent days, the atmosphere of stoicism has begun to give way to one dominated by practical concerns. More people are speaking up and looking to the authorities for help. 
As the city promotes Broadway shows in television advertisements and makes special efforts to encourage financial companies not to leave for New Jersey, there is a growing sense that Chinatown needs to be recognized as a casualty, too. In that regard, Mr. Bush's visit was seen as a welcome spotlight.
Mr. Lee said several days of pestering finally paid off on Tuesday when the authorities agreed to move some of the wooden barricades along Canal Street several blocks to the south. Even though pedestrians were able to pass, the barriers had created a psychological no-go zone for shoppers.
Now, some business owners have set their sights on getting rid of the highway signs from New Jersey to Long Island that advise motorists to avoid Lower Manhattan. 
"They are killing our business by stopping the traffic," said Eva Sam, the owner of Popular Jewelry on Canal Street.
Garment workers are also putting together a plan to encourage retailers to keep manufacturing work in Manhattan. Bruce S. Raynor, president of the Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees, said about 11,000 of the city's 60,000 garment workers were based in Chinatown. Almost all of them, he said, are now working part time.
"It seems as if the focus of many people has been on the financial industry and Wall Street," Mr. Raynor said. "Our workers have been just as adversely affected, if not more so, because they live closer to the line of survival."
At the community center on Mott Street, about 2,000 people from Chinatown and elsewhere in Lower Manhattan had taken advantage of a variety of services, including free legal advice, inexpensive cellular phones and small-business loans. But Mr. Lee said a survey of about 350 area businesses found that problems remained widespread. 
Among those seeking help yesterday were five drivers from Allen Car Service on Orchard Street. They were applying for loans to get through the month. They used to get customers from Morgan Stanley and Merrill Lynch, making as much as $300 a day. Now they are fortunate to take home $30, they said.
Some of the drivers have cut back on basics like food. One of them had just done his grocery shopping for the next few days: his plastic bag contained several loaves of bread and a can of tomato sauce. 
Another driver, Paul Ling, said he had cut out one meal a day so that he would have enough money to feed his daughter, who is 1. 
"I've eaten ramen noodles every day for a while now," he said. "It tastes terrible after a while, but you've got to eat. What can you do?"
Others in Chinatown said they were coping the best they could, confident that things would turn for the better.
The intricate Chinese paper cuttings of one artist, Bun Lau, were displayed on some scaffolding along the sidewalk on Mulberry Street. So were his hand-painted shirts with colorful scenes of lotus flowers and fish and dragons.
But yesterday, as President Bush visited an elementary school a few blocks away, Mr. Lau was putting his fine brushes to work on a design unlike the others. Spread out on a folding table was a T-shirt with an outline of the Lower Manhattan skyline. Featured prominently in the center were the twin towers of the World Trade Center.
"It'll be better tomorrow," Mr. Lau scrawled in both English and Chinese, lifting a verse from a popular Chinese song.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Flags are abundant around Chinatown, as residents and business owners show their patriotism after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But businesses in the area, many of which rely on the tourist trade, have been hard hit. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B9); Chinatown has been reeling economically since the trade center attacks. Tourists are few, and many businesses have cut back. (Chang W. Lee/The New York Times)(pg. B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); HIJACKING (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (75%); TERRORISM (73%); APPAREL MFG (69%); PHARMACIES (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); DEATHS (67%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (66%); FUNDRAISING (66%); TRENDS (66%); CONSTRUCTION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; CHINESE-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: CHINESE CONSOLIDATED BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) MURPHY, DEAN E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; CHINATOWN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



131 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 The Economic Aftershocks

NEW BUSH PACKAGE -- President Bush urged Congress to pass a package of tax cuts and additional spending worth up to $75 billion as part of the effort to shore up the faltering economy after the terror attacks. A1

BUSINESS OUTLOOK -- New York's politicians, economists and business leaders are now grappling with an outlook that appears grim. B1

DOUBTS ON AID -- Skepticism is surfacing on Capitol Hill about whether Washington can fully meet New York's plea for aid, which could total at least $50 billion. B8

FATE OF AIRLINES -- The federal government is taking on its biggest role in shaping airlines since the industry was deregulated a generation ago, potentially determining which airlines survive the current crisis. A1

The President in New York

ANNOUNCING AID -- President Bush sought to reassure schoolchildren and corporate executives on his second visit to New York since the attacks, announcing that his administration would ask Congress for billions in additional aid for the city. B9

AN AREA TRANSFORMED -- The Chinatown that President Bush visited showed signs of trauma most everywhere, from jobless workers to streets with barricades to shops teetering on bankruptcy. B1

Russia and Beyond

DELICATE DIPLOMACY -- The United States is facing a central conundrum: the more it presses moderate, often autocratic leaders in the Middle East to help in its campaign, the more it jeopardizes them. A1

TRADE TOOL -- House lawmakers announced a compromise that would give President Bush added authority to negotiate trade accords. A1

FLEXIBILITY ON NATO -- The Russian president, moving to capitalize on a new-found solidarity with the West over fighting terrorism, indicated that he might show flexibility over NATO expansion. B2

In the Middle East

CHANGE IN AFGHANISTAN -- The Taliban's top Islamic clerics have reportedly left their headquarters to escape the risk of bombing, and other senior Taliban officials have fled to Pakistan. But what the movements meant was uncertain. A1

ROLE OF EGYPTIANS -- The Egyptian Islamic Jihad, once pushed into exile, now forms a backbone for Osama bin Laden in Afghanistan. B4

WORRY IN KABUL -- People fleeing the Afghan capital in the last several days describe a city whose atmosphere has shifted from panic to constant worry and waiting. B4

Diplomacy and Drugs

SEEKING SUPPORT -- On the first leg of a trip trough the Middle East, Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld sought to solidify Saudi support for the war against terrorism. B3

CONCERNS IN CONGRESS -- Secretary of State Colin L. Powell met with a Senate committee in an effort to alleviate a concern that military action would inflame the Muslim world. B3

DRUG PLAN REPORTED -- The network headed by Osama bin Laden once tried to develop a high-strength form of heroin to export to the United States and Western Europe. B3

The European Trails

SUSPECT LEFT A WILL -- Mohammad Atta, described by as the ringleader of the Sept. 11 hijackers, left behind a 1996 will indicating that he had long planned to die for Islam. B5

INQUIRY IN BRITAIN -- The British police are investigating an organization that offers the "ultimate jihad experience" of training in military techniques using live ammunition. B5

PLOT IN PARIS -- A Frenchman of Algerian background is asuspect in a case that may link Osama bin Laden with a plot to blow up the United States Embassy in Paris. B5

FINDINGS ON ARREST -- The federal authorties have found that a Saudi Arabian arrested in New York did not have false documents. B5

Threats and Rights

NEW BORDER MISSION -- Since the attacks, officials have been racing to tighten up the United States' sprawling border with Canada. B1

BIOLOGICAL DEFENSES -- Federal health officials are accelerating production of a smallpox vaccine and taking other steps to strengthen the nation's biodefenses. B7

SAFEGUARDING WATER -- The E.P.A. has fallen years behind its timetable for safeguarding the water supply, internal documents show. B7

TERROR MEASURE ADVANCES -- A House committee approved a bill that would give law enforcement officials new authority to investigate terror suspects. B7

Questions of Security

LAPSES FOUND -- A classified report in July found serious lapses in the system for shipping military explosives around the country by truck. B6

PLAN FOR AIRPORTS -- The White House offered a proposal that would make federalization of airport screening an option but not a requirement. B6

DIVIDED ON TWO GROUPS -- The Bush administration has been unable to resolve where two anti-Israeli organizations fit into its campaign against terrorism. B6

ALERT FOR ARCHITECTS -- The American Institute of Architects is asking its members to immediately report to the F.B.I. any suspicious requests for details of building plans. B8

The Aftermath in New York

A TRAFFIC BAN ENDS -- Delivery trucks, buses and residents' cars will again be allowed in the southern part of Battery Park City. B9

SIGNALS SCRAMBLED -- Since the terror attacks nearly 4.5 million people in the region have been left with seriously flawed television reception. B9

VISITING GROUND ZERO -- Dozens of celebrities, lawmakers and world leaders want to visit the epicenter of the World Trade Center disaster. An eclectic few are being allowed to. B10

FISH MARKET AILING -- The Fulton Fish Market has moved to the Bronx, a change that has brought impending bankruptcies, layoffs and worries of a spoiled seafood supply. D1

CONFUSING COMMUTING -- The terrorists' attack has jumbled routine commuting patterns in the suburbs and Lower Manhattan. D1

A LOST JOB -- A legal headhunter, whose husband was killed in the World Trade Center attack, is now struggling after losing her job. D4

COSTS FOR AIRPORTS -- The establishment of no-fly zones for private aircraft around airports in the Washington and New York areas is costing smaller airports hundreds of thousands of dollars. D6

NEEDIEST CASES B10

Culture

THE PUBLIC'S TASTE -- The appetite in popular culture appears to be remarkably unchanged as movie releases and the television seasons return to their normal rhythm. A1

SHOWS PRESS AHEAD -- Many Off-Broadway theaters have been hit hard by a loss of attendance, but in some cases they are better positioned to press on than big Broadway shows. E1

Business

INSURERS AT WORK -- An army of claims adjustors are working to revive companies that were damaged, destroyed or forced to close. C1

Portraits of Grief B11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORISM (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (77%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (70%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (69%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); RELIGION (67%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (66%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (64%); HEROIN (60%); CHILDREN (53%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EGYPT (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); PAKISTAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



132 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 4, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TIFFANY SAYS THIRD-QUARTER SALES WILL DECLINE

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 Tiffany & Company's fiscal third-quarter sales will decline about 10 percent and profit will fall more than forecast as shoppers, worried about the slowing economy and shaken by the terrorist attacks, spend less on jewelry. 
Earnings in the quarter, which ends Oct. 31, will fall to 12 cents to 15 cents a share, from 24 cents a year earlier, Tiffany said. Tiffany, which is based in New York, had sales of $369.7 million a year earlier. Fourth-quarter profit will be 49 cents to 56 cents a share, compared with 56 cents the previous year, the company said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (88%); JEWELRY STORES (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); TERRORISM (85%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (85%) FINANCES; JEWELS AND JEWELRY; SALES 

COMPANY: TIFFANY & CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: TIFFANY & CO 

TICKER: TIF (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448310 JEWELRY STORES (94%); NAICS339910 JEWELRY & SILVERWARE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES (94%); SIC3911 JEWELRY, PRECIOUS METAL (94%) SIC5944 JEWELRY STORES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001 



133 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
On 'West Wing,' a Twilight World Where Fact Meets Fiction

BYLINE:  By CARYN JAMES 

 BODY:
One minute we were in a fictional version of the White House, which the Secret Service had sealed off because of a security breach; seconds later the screen flashed information about how to contribute to the Twin Towers Fund, and then we were in the land of stylized commercials, lured by the neon-bright dazzle of Times Square to buy a car. That brief sequence on NBC near the start of "The West Wing" on Wednesday was more revealing than anything on the show itself, which Aaron Sorkin wrote as an oblique response to the terrorist attacks last month.
 Zooming from an invented crisis to a reminder of the real tragedy and on to familiar commercials, for a minute viewers were trapped in a twilight world between fact and fiction, panic and normality. Even the ads accidentally suggested the most unsettling questions of the day. (The words "You Want It" kept flashing on screen during the commercial, but who will be able to buy a new car if there's a recession?) 
 No one watches "The West Wing" for such inadvertent examples of how television is floundering to find the right tone, though. In itself, the show was preachy and self-important, everything we don't need drama to be. In advance, NBC played a Garbo game, hyping the show by being coyly secretive about the plot. The truth is there wasn't much of a story. And partly because the episode was produced so quickly, the characters mostly sit and talk.
In a clumsy dramatic device, high-school students are visiting the White House and have to stay there while the Secret Service investigates the security lapse. The White House staff drops by to chat, or rather lecture them. No one mentions the World Trade Center, but the characters allude to some recent crisis, and the image of scared adolescents adds another resonance of real life.
Yet the overall effect is to turn the television audience into captive students. Josh (Bradley Whitford) even offers a lesson based on the form of an SAT question. "Islamic extremists are to Islam as the Ku Klux Klan is to Christianity," he says. Occasionally the scene moves to an Arab-American who works at the White House, who is being harshly questioned because he is suspected of having links to terrorists. With ethnic tolerance one of the lessons the show hammers, it is obvious he will turn out to be innocent.
We want drama to touch our lives and illuminate what facts cannot. Instead, "The West Wing" spoon-fed us debates, as if its characters had wandered into "Hardball" or "Crossfire." C. J. (Allison Janney) says the United States needs more spies, and Toby (Richard Schiff) wonders what that might do to civil liberties. The president (Martin Sheen) tells the students, "Killing yourself and innocent people to make a point is sick, twisted, brutal . . . murder," as if he were a guest on "The O'Reilly Factor."
Viewers should get used to being in that twilight world where fact and fiction meet. John Wells, the producer of "The West Wing," has another show that plans to address the World Trade Center attack more specifically. This month "Third Watch," the NBC series about New York firefighters, police officers and paramedics, will do three weeks of related stories, one featuring real-life counterparts of the characters, another dealing with the effect of the attack on the fictional rescue workers. Drama is circling closer to the event, but that doesn't mean anyone really knows how to approach it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: From left, Richard Schiff as Toby Ziegler, Bradley Whitford as Josh Lyman and Allison Janney as C. J. Gregg, with high school students in "The West Wing." (Warner Brothers Television) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TERRORISM (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (85%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HIJACKING (75%); ARAB AMERICANS (75%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (67%); RELIGION (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (64%) TELEVISION; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; REVIEWS 

PERSON: SORKIN, AARON; JAMES, CARYN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: WEST WING, THE (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



134 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: AUTOS ON FRIDAY/Collecting; 
A Hobby Offers Solace But Uncertainty, Too

BYLINE:  By KEITH MARTIN 

 BODY:
AS pastimes go, buying, restoring and driving old cars is a harmless -- though often expensive -- indulgence, far removed from the worlds of global politics and terrorist plots.
 Nonetheless, the destruction in New York and Washington has had a profound effect on collectors and the varied, far-flung businesses that support them. Some collectors are wondering when, and even whether, their avocation can get back to normal. For others, who have spent large sums to buy and restore cars, there is anxiety over market values. Prices plunged in the early 1990's, during the last recession. 
 More fundamentally, some people are wondering if it is even appropriate to indulge now in a flamboyant hobby that is, by its nature, intended to attract attention.
The attacks' most immediate effect on the hobby was the cancellation of a highly anticipated auction that was to have taken place at the Waldorf-Astoria on Sept. 26. Last year, RM Auctions, which presents the event, sold $6.5 million worth of vintage Ferraris, Aston Martins, Cobras and the like. The sale was expected to be even bigger this year, with cars including a 1937 Mercedes-Benz 540K Special Roadster once owned by Jack Warner, the movie mogul.
"Some of our customers were very disturbed that we canceled the auction," said David Gooding, chief executive of RM. "But others felt that raising their hand to buy a million-dollar car, just blocks from a place where thousands of people had so recently died, would just be wrong."
Mr. Gooding said it was his New York customers who most wanted the auction to go on. "But the people who lived outside of the city were really spooked about coming to Manhattan," he said.
There were, of course, logistical problems. It would have been difficult, if not impossible, to bring 50 expensive classic cars into Manhattan -- some by air, and others by truck -- under heightened security measures. And most of the bidders were coming from outside the New York area at a time when airline schedules were uncertain.
(Some of the featured cars from the Waldorf sale will be offered at RM's next auction, to be held in Phoenix on Jan. 18.)
Mr. Gooding said he had not yet seen indications that either the attacks or the weakening economy had significantly affected high-end collecting, though he has received calls from "bottom feeders" -- opportunists looking for bargains.
"But no owners have called saying they want to dump their collections," he said. "Rather, with paper securities in such a chaotic state, having your money parked in hard goods like vintage Ferraris suddenly seems like a pretty smart idea."
There are other signs that the collector market is holding steady, at least for now. McKeel Hagerty, president of Hagerty Insurance in Traverse City, Mich., a company that specializes in insuring collectible automobiles and boats, said that one previous indicator of major shifts in the market had been the number of cars added to, or removed from, the policies held by collectors.
"So far, we haven't seen any evidence that people are dumping their cars and canceling their policies," he said. "In fact, we've seen a slight uptick in new policies."
He predicted that there might be an increase in the value of American cars from the 1950's and 60's, as part of a wave of patriotism. That sentiment was echoed by David E. Davis, founder and editor emeritus of Automobile Magazine.
Mr. Davis recalled that in the 60's, soldiers in Vietnam "wanted their copies of car magazines, to think about the things they wanted to do when they got back home." He added: "Cars, especially collectible cars, have always been an important part of the way Americans enjoy and express themselves. This isn't going to change."
Donald Osborne, a vintage-car enthusiast in New York, offered a personal testament about the comfort that enthusiasts can find in their cars during troubling times. On Sept. 11, Mr. Osborne, sales director of Integrated Creative Experiences, a marketing and communications company, walked out of his office on Park Avenue South and saw the first tower collapse. He made his way home to Brooklyn Heights on foot, through the smoke and dust.
From his apartment, he watched the disaster unfold. "The 24-hour-a-day sirens, and the black smoke lit up at night by searchlights, were just overwhelming," he recalled. By the weekend, "I had to get away."
He drove to Connecticut, where he keeps his 1967 Lancia Fulvia Zagato. During a day behind the wheel, he reflected on the comfort of doing something familiar. "We have to find out what our new 'normal' lives will be," he said. "And the only way we can do that is by doing things we've always done, and seeing which ones still feel right."
He said he felt compelled to do things that reminded him that life would continue. "I just wanted to get back the parts of my life that I could get back. By driving my old car, I transported myself to a better, simpler, kinder place, if only for a few hours."
The biggest national gathering of collectors is the National Fall Meet of the eastern division of the Antique Automobile Club of America. It takes place next Wednesday through Saturday in Hershey, Pa. Of two auctions that had been scheduled to coincide with the Hershey event, one has been canceled; its presenter, Bonhams & Brooks, said that "holding a solely commercial event" would not be appropriate now.
The other auction will go on. "We have to continue, like the president says," said Rob Williams, general manager of the Blackhawk Collection, the organizer of that sale.
On the West Coast, the next measure of collectors' mood will come Oct. 27-28 in Santa Clara, Calif., at the eBay Motors Pacific Classic Collector Car Auction. It will be produced by Kruse International, an eBay subsidiary, and will be the first "land based" car sale by that Internet auction company.
"It's not a great time to be selling very expensive cars," said Timothy Sprague, chief executive of Kruse. "But we've lined up over 200 cars, most of them under $50,000 and many of them American muscle cars. We believe that's exactly what collectors will be looking for."
Even in September, some enthusiasts went ahead with scheduled events despite the strong emotions of the moment. In the resort community of Sun River, Ore., collectors held their annual car show and tour just a few days after the terrorist attacks.
"The World Trade Center was on everyone's mind," said John Draneas, the Portland lawyer who organized the event, describing the mood as subdued. "But we had the largest crowds ever, with many people waving American flags. We observed some formal moments of silence, but no speeches. It was as if everyone needed a break and wanted to think about something else."
Mr. Draneas said he was likely to buy more cars soon. "We've seen just how full of uncertainties life can be," he said. "I've put off buying some of the cars I've always wanted, but now I think it's time to buy them and enjoy them right now, not later."

GRAPHIC: Photos: David Gooding, chief executive of RM Auctions, in a '59 Cadillac convertible. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times); After days of watching tragic scenes in New York, Donald Osborne found comfort driving his '67 Lancia Fulvia in Connecticut. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); TERRORISM (77%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVES (65%) AUTOMOBILES; COLLECTORS AND COLLECTIONS 

PERSON: MARTIN, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); TRAVERSE CITY, MI, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



135 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 991 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF; 
Pay Cuts Shrink, Worry Remains

BYLINE:  By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:
The patient is alive. That was the consensus on Broadway this week as box-office figures continued to improve and several productions began to give back some of the wage concessions that unions approved after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 That was good news for actors, stagehands and other off-stage staff. Alan Wasser, the general manager of "Les Miserables" and "Phantom of the Opera," said yesterday that the cast and crew of his shows would get back half the 25 percent wage cut they took beginning on Sept. 23. Producers were also giving back half at the Martin Beck Theater, home to "Kiss Me, Kate," where the cast and crew had been giving up 50 percent of their pay. And at "Chicago," the producers Fran and Barry Weissler told the company that they would probably get back the entire 25 percent if the show's box-office numbers continued to improve. 
 For all the good signs and good will, there were some serious concerns about what lay down the road for Broadway. Travel and tourism continue to suffer mightily -- why else would this week's story about 1,000 Oregonians coming to town be big news? -- a factor that some producers have already taken into account in their plans.
The problem is simple: while audiences have been buying same-day or same-week tickets, advance sales have been slow to bounce back. "It's very much a current-sale situation," Mr. Wasser said. "We're not really selling into the future, because a lot of the planes are coming in empty."
At "Les Miserables" and "Phantom," for example, about half the daily sales are usually for performances at least a week away. Lately that figure has dropped to as low as 20 percent, Mr. Wasser said.
In particular, many producers are deeply concerned about January through mid-March, when in a good year even the best shows suffer a bit as tourists stay home and people nearby avoid going out. This year, however, some fear the decline could be particularly harsh.
"You're in a place where a lot of shows are burning through their advance and not restocking the till," said one producer, who spoke on condition of anonymity. "If daily sales then dry up, as they always do in the winter, where's the money to keep you going to come from?" '
Indeed, while some long-running shows crept back into profitability this week, they did so only with union concessions, which expire in two weeks. And while industry executives give enormous credit to the mayor and other officials for encouraging people to come to New York and see a show, some producers wonder how long the love affair with New York will last.
"How are you going to extend the good will of New Yorkers and keep them coming to the shows until the spring?" asked one person in the industry.
Not everyone was pessimistic. Ronald Lee, president of Group Sales Box Office, a ticket service, said his business "ground to a halt" after the attacks, but winter sales were off less than 2 percent from last year.
Philip Smith, the president of the Shubert Organization, also tried to put a positive spin on the state of advance sales. "They're off, no question, but they're improving," he said.
But even Broadway's biggest boosters recognize the challenges ahead. "The next big decision comes after Christmas and New Year's," said Jed Bernstein, the president of the League of American Theaters and Producers. "After that comes the cold winter. We can only hope that the momentum will continue."

Delay for 'Vampires'
There is another Broadway postponement to report: "Dance of the Vampires," a musical based on the 1967 Roman Polanski film "The Fearless Vampire Killers," will not be seen this season.
Its producer, David Sonenberg, said yesterday that he had decided to push back the show's opening until next fall. The show, originally scheduled for late April, will instead open on Oct. 24 at the Minskoff Theater.
Mr. Sonenberg said most of the show's creative team, including John Caird, the co-director, was based in London, which caused myriad logistic delays. "We haven't been able to do anything productive since all this happened," he said. "We just realized there was no way to open before the Tony cutoff."
Another bloodsucking extravaganza may still be seen on Broadway. "Dracula, the Musical," which begins performances on Tuesday at La Jolla Playhouse in California, has booked the Broadway Theater. Expect it in late spring if the reviews are good.
Des McAnuff ("Big River") directs; Frank Wildhorn, an exponent of the pop-ghoul genre (see "Jekyll and Hyde"), is the composer.

Saved by a Carpenter
Joe Maher is a regular Joe. He has a house on Long Island, a beautiful wife and a good job as the house carpenter at the Martin Beck Theater.
Lately, however, he's got a new title: show saver.
It was just two weeks ago, after all, that Mr. Maher found out that his show, "Kiss Me, Kate," was to close after Broadway's theatrical unions decided to reject a proposed 50 percent pay cut for the musical's cast and crew. Barring those concessions, the production didn't seem to stand a chance.
Until Mr. Maher proposed a simple idea: instead of a full 50 percent cut, what if the cast and crew voluntarily gave 25 percent on top of the 25 percent already approved by the unions? Better yet, what if they used the money to buy tickets and donate them to rescue workers?
"I just felt it was a tragedy for this thing to close," Mr. Maher. "I mean, that's 100 people losing their jobs. And there ain't a lot of jobs out there right now."
The company unanimously approved the plan, and the closing notice was ripped up onstage by the show's producer, Roger Berlind. And on Sunday the cast presented Mr. Maher with a life-preserver signed by every member of the company and inscribed "Capt. Joe Maher, S.S. Kiss Me Kate." Mr. Maher, whose father, grandfather and great-grandfather all worked backstage on Broadway, said it wasn't that big a deal.
"I couldn't go on unemployment right now," he said, "I got to pay for my wife's new kitchen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Maher, house carpenter at the Martin Beck Theater, saved the show. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); TICKET SALES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); MAYORS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); TERRORISM (77%); HIJACKING (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AIRLINES (63%); THEATER (58%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) THEATER; TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; WAGES AND SALARIES; SALES 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE; MAHER, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

TITLE: ;KISS ME, KATE (PLAY); DANCE OF THE VAMPIRES (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



136 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Fed Cut Rates, Fearing Attacks' Economic Impact 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The risk that terrorist attacks might weaken United States asset prices and the economy led Federal Reserve policy makers to lower their benchmark interest rate by half a percentage point on Sept. 17, according to minutes of a Fed conference released today.
 The reduction in interest rates, at that point the eighth in 2001, was made "against the backdrop of heightened concerns and uncertainty created by the recent terrorist attacks and their potentially adverse effects on asset prices and the performance of the economy," the Fed's minutes said. 
 All 10 members of the policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee voted for the rate cut, the third this year between scheduled meetings. 
At a regular meeting on Tuesday, the Fed moved again, lowering the federal funds rate a ninth time -- down a half-point more, to 2.5 percent, the lowest in almost 40 years.
After the attacks on Sept. 11, stock trading was halted for four days. An hour after the rate cut on Sept. 17, share prices plummeted in resumed trading and they continued falling for several days. 
The Fed rate-setting panel, at an earlier meeting on Aug. 21, had voted for a quarter-point reduction in the federal funds rate, the rate on overnight loans between banks, and it discussed the possibility of ending this year's series of rate cuts "relatively soon," the minutes showed.
The Fed by then had reduced the benchmark rate by three percentage points this year, to 3.5 percent. Policy makers said then that the cycle of rate cuts "probably would have to be terminated before available measures of economic activity provided clear evidence of a substantial strengthening trend" in the economy, the Aug. 21 minutes said. Still, "the strength and timing of the pickup remained uncertain and further weakness was a distinct threat in the near term," the Fed panel said.
And even while considering a change in the direction of interest rate policy, central bankers said "the economy continued to be weak -- indeed weaker than many had expected -- and data and anecdotal reports from around the country had yet to point to persuasive signs of a turnaround."
The Fed combined its Sept. 17 rate cut with a promise to supply "an atypically large volume of liquidity to the financial system." That, the minutes said, could lead the federal funds rate to fall below its target on occasion until "more normal conditions were restored in the functioning of the financial system."
Central bankers began to debate a further lowering of borrowing costs in a conference call two days after the attacks, the minutes showed. They held back because "financial markets were still too disrupted and the economic outlook too uncertain to provide an adequate basis for a policy move." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); TERRORISM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); TRENDS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATISTICS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); SUSPENSION OF TRADING (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (72%); SECURITIES TRADING (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



137 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Some Workers Are Finding It a Difficult Time to Strike 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: ST. PAUL, Oct. 2 

 BODY:
There is never a good time to go on strike, union leaders often say, but the walkout on Monday by nearly 28,000 Minnesota state employees seems to have come at an especially inopportune time.
 Gov. Jesse Ventura, business leaders, editorial writers and many other Minnesotans have condemned the strikers for walking out during a national crisis. When so many Americans are talking about the need for shared sacrifice and unity, it has suddenly become difficult, even risky, for unions to use their most potent weapon. 
 "This strike comes at a most unfortunate time," Mr. Ventura, an independent, said. "Our citizens are still hurting from the devastating attack on Sept. 11, we are coping with the possibility of a long and difficult war, and we are facing the prospect of an economy that is on the brink of recession."
For unions, public sympathy can be crucial in trying to outmuscle and outlast management in a strike. With the public showing less support for strikers after the attacks, labor experts say unions might become more reluctant to walk out.
In North Carolina, where state employees are threatening their first strike ever, many state officials say economic problems, made worse by the Sept. 11 attacks, make it harder for the state to meet the union's demands. When 200 teachers in Granite City, Ill., went on strike five days after the attacks, they were widely denounced as being selfish.
The local newspaper, The Belleville News-Democrat, wrote: "They lost credibility when they walked out days after the worst terrorist attacks in our nation's history. Beyond that, the attacks Sept. 11 weakened our nation's already shaky economy -- and made the union demands even more unreasonable."
Michael LeRoy, a professor of labor relations at the University of Illinois, predicted that there would be fewer strikes as a result of the new mood across the nation. Mr. LeRoy conducted a study on how various administrations, including those of Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower, sometimes accused unions of being unpatriotic when they went on strike during the Korean War and the cold war.
"A time of national emergency makes it more difficult for unions to engineer public support," Mr. LeRoy said. "And I wouldn't underestimate the importance of public sympathy in conducting a successful strike."
The shift in the collective bargaining terrain, coming when unemployment is soaring and corporate profits are falling, could weaken labor's hand at the bargaining table. But many union leaders assert that they should not shrink from striking.
"We sacrificed back in 1993, when we took a 0 percent raise," said Murray Cody, communications director of the Minnesota Association of Professional Employees, one of the two unions that went on strike on Monday. "We were told back then to sacrifice to help the state out, and they promised that when times got better, they'd take care of us. But they never came through on that."
Mr. Cody rejected some criticism that his union was being unpatriotic, noting that members had contributed more than $10,000 to the victims of the terrorist attack in New York. He said the union, whose contract expired in June, originally planned to strike on Sept. 17, but delayed the walkout for two weeks because of the Sept. 11 attacks.
Some union and business representatives forecast a decline in strikes because of the national mood. Patrick Cleary, senior vice president for human resources policy at the National Association of Manufacturers, said, "I believe that, barring some gargantuan problems, labor and management will find a way to make peace or defer battle."
New York City's teachers union, which has been without a contract for more than a year, has asked for a two-month delay in contentious hearings in its salary dispute. Leaders of that union say it is not an appropriate time to battle over wages. 
But Patrick Lynch, president of New York City's main police union, the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association, said the Sept. 11 attacks could strengthen the hand of uniformed unions, like police and firefighters, because the public had come to appreciate all the more the importance of those workers.
Some union strategists fear that managers of some companies and government bodies will seize on the national crisis to take advantage of their workers, knowing that it is a difficult time to strike. 
Ron Blackwell, the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s director of corporate affairs, predicted that strikes would decrease, but that labor relations might remain tense, partly because executive pay has skyrocketed while rank-and-file wages languished. 
"Patriotism is a very important feeling in the country," Mr. Blackwell said. "But that doesn't change the relationship people have with their employers.
"No one is saying, 'Let's stop the American economy.' They're saying, 'Let's get some equity back in the employment relationship.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking Minnesota state employees, Liz Brown, left, and Marge Johnson, try to get motorists to honk their horns in support in St. Paul. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STRIKES (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COLD WAR (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TERRORISM (74%); KOREAN WAR (74%); HIJACKING (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); WRITERS (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); HISTORY (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%) LABOR; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); STRIKES; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) MINNESOTA, USA (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); MINNESOTA

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



138 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Some Rental Car Companies Lobby for U.S. to Back Loans 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
A coalition of rental car companies has begun lobbying Congress and the White House for a five-year, $1.5 billion package of loan guarantees, saying that they, like the nation's airlines, have been devastated by a plunge in business after the terrorist attacks, officials said yesterday.
 But the industry is divided, with rental giants Hertz and Avis Rent-A-Car Systems, along with Enterprise Rent-A-Car, opposed to any bailout of the industry. 
 The plan is being promoted by the ANC Rental Corporation, the parent of National and Alamo, and is supported by Budget Rent A Car and Dollar Rent A Car Systems, which includes Thrifty Car Rental.
"This is a vital industry, and it is in very serious need of help," said John Merrigan, with the Washington law firm of Verner, Liipfert, who is coordinating the effort. 
The chief executives of Hertz and Avis, however, sent a letter yesterday to Donald Evans, the commerce secretary, saying they did not support a relief plan. They urged the government instead to focus on efforts to restore the public's confidence in air travel.
"We believe that direct financial assistance of the car rental industry will inevitably take federal money away from domestic security programs, efforts to fight terrorism and initiatives aimed at strengthening the economy and the travel industry," said David Siegel, the chief executive of Avis, and Craig Koch, the head of Hertz.
Though Enterprise officials did not sign the letter, the company considers the proposal inappropriate, said Christy Conrad, an Enterprise spokeswoman. "It just wouldn't be right to ask for the money," she said. Officials at the companies would not say whether they would draw from the loan guarantees, if offered, however.
The $19.4 billion a year car rental industry was hurt by the terrorist attacks, which led to a nationwide freeze on air travel. Airport car rentals comprise up to 90 percent of transactions of the major companies, whose primary customers are business travelers. Business fell an estimated 50 percent during the days after the attacks, and 1.92 million vehicles were scattered across the country, as stranded air travelers rented cars to drive home.
Car rental traffic has improved the last three weeks, but executives at the companies say business remains down 25 percent to 35 percent. Officials estimate losses could be in the millions of dollars. To spur rentals, the companies are offering a series of discount deals.
Michael S. Egan, the chief executive at ANC Rental, said it could take years for the industry to recover from the impact of the attacks. In an interview, Mr. Egan said his company, which had faced financial difficulties before Sept. 11, might not survive without government help. On Monday, ANC Rental deferred a $70 million bridge loan payment for two months, and named new executives, including a new chief financial officer, who will direct a turnaround effort.
Before the attacks, "this company was a viable company," Mr. Egan said.
"We were doing things we felt would make us investable, salable or profitable for the future," he said. "We had every prospect of succeeding. On Sept. 11, the world changed." 
In their letter to Mr. Evans, the Hertz and Avis chiefs agreed that the industry had suffered financially. "Nevertheless, the long-term solution for our industry exists within the broader framework of efforts by Congress and the president to deal with this crisis, not in a car rental industry-specific rescue plan," the executives said.
Rudy Maxa, a travel consultant and commentator who is based in Washington, said the proposal might prove a tough sell. "They're not perceived to be as important as the airlines for the economy," he said. "Certainly business is down. But business is down a lot of places. Should they be asking Congress for a subsidy? I don't think so."
Industry experts suggested that the bid for federal assistance appears to be pitting financially disadvantaged companies against the industry's healthier players. 
Betsy Snyder, a director at Standard & Poors, the financial ratings agency, likened the debate to arguments that have broken out among airline companies in the days since Congress passed an emergency aid package. "It's a parallel situation," Ms. Snyder said.
Even before the attacks, Ms. Snyder said she was concerned about many of the rental car companies. "For the last year, business has been off, there has been pressure on pricing, and they had too many cars," she said.
Mr. Egan bristled at the notion that ailing rental car companies might be using the attacks as an opportunity to gain federal assistance that could help them assuage pre-existing financial problems.
"If anyone looks at us askance and says, 'Oh, you're just using this as an excuse,' that's like saying we're just using this incident to pursue people that we think are enemies of our country in the first place,' " Mr. Egan said. "It's crazy. What happened is unprecedented."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (94%); LOBBYING (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); AIRLINES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); AIRPORTS (77%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); TRAVEL AGENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERVIEWS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%) AUTOMOBILES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RENTING AND LEASING; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; FINANCES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: HERTZ GLOBAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); ANC RENTAL CORP (84%); DOLLAR RENT A CAR SYSTEMS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: ;HERTZ CORP; AVIS RENT A CAR SYSTEM; ENTERPRISE RENT-A-CAR CO; ANC RENTAL CORP; BUDGET RENT A CAR CORP; DOLLAR RENT A CAR SYSTEMS 

TICKER: HTZ (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%); SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (92%); NAICS532412 CONSTRUCTION, MINING & FORESTRY MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (92%); SIC7353 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT RENTAL & LEASING (92%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (57%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (57%) SIC7514 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL; 

PERSON: ;BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



139 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Levy Tries to Calm Fears About Air Quality Near Ruins 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH and EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
Trying to relieve parents' environmental concerns about schools near the World Trade Center, Schools Chancellor Harold O. Levy said yesterday that he would move his office to one of the schools, Stuyvesant High School, when it reopened to students on Tuesday.
 Mr. Levy's gesture is largely symbolic; he plans to stay only four days and is taking only a secretary with him. He is responding to a growing outcry from parents at seven schools who are worried about air quality and the trucks carrying debris from the disaster site. 
 His effort apparently is not enough to allay fears of parents at at least one of the other shuttered schools, Public School 234, at the corner of Greenwich and Chambers Streets, one block east of Stuyvesant. That school was to reopen around Oct. 15, but so many parents raised objections regarding problems with air quality that the Board of Education decided yesterday to delay the return for at least another month.
Instead, the school's 675 students will move from one temporary space -- P.S. 41 on West 11th Street in Greenwich Village -- to another, St. Bernard School, on West 13th Street. 
The news of P.S. 234's latest plan infuriated many parents and teachers at P.S. 89, another school in Lower Manhattan that was closed after the attack on the World Trade Center. Those parents and teachers had also been hoping for the St. Bernard site, which was used as a Catholic elementary school until June.
"They don't understand how desperate we are," said Sharon Sprague, a P.S. 89 parent who was fighting tears after she heard the news. "They'd better come up with a good location for us fast or people are going to start giving up." 
The school has already been abandoned, at least temporarily, by more than 100 families who were left indefinitely homeless by the attack and have enrolled their children elsewhere, Ms. Sprague said. 
Catie Marshall, a spokeswoman for Mr. Levy, said yesterday that the board was scouting new locations for P.S. 89 and its sister school, Intermediate School 89. The students for those schools are now using severely crowded spaces at P.S. 3 on Hudson Street and I.S. 70 on West 17th Street. 
The permanent home for P.S. and I.S. 89 at Warren and West Streets, just three blocks from ground zero, will be used by the city's Office of Emergency Management for at least another month. Most of the roughly 700 students have not been able to move back into their homes in Battery Park City since the attack.
"The goal for both of these is to move them out to new locations next week," Ms. Marshall said. "We're looking for the locations now."
The students from P.S. 234 have been doubling and even tripling up in classrooms at P.S. 41, creating what Anna Switzer, the principal of P.S. 234, described as a chaotic environment. Under pressure from parents, the Board of Education promised to reopen P.S. 234 around Oct. 15.
But after learning this week that traces of asbestos had been detected in dust samples at nearby Stuyvesant High, many parents changed their minds. After several emotional meetings with parents and teachers this week, Ms. Switzer decided to delay the return. Instead, she said yesterday, the school would move into St. Bernard on Tuesday and stay there for at least a month. 
"We want to go back to our school more than anything," Ms. Switzer said. "But we can't go back until the adults have confidence that it's a completely safe move."
Stuyvesant High, which was used as a staging area for rescue and recovery workers until last week, is being tested for the presence of asbestos and other environmental hazards after an intense cleaning over the last several days.
Last month, before the cleaning, tests showed elevated levels of asbestos in dust on surfaces in the school. But air samples taken after the cleaning showed only traces of asbestos, well below the levels deemed dangerous by the federal Environmental Protection Agency. 
P.S. 150, a small elementary school on Greenwich Street, near Independence Plaza, was to reopen next week but will remain closed indefinitely because of a noisy construction project just outside the building, board officials said yesterday. Its students have been housed at P.S. 3 since the attack, but a spokeswoman for Mr. Levy said that they might be moved to a less crowded location.
The High School for Leadership and Public Service and the High School of Economics and Finance, which both sustained minor damage in the attack, could reopen in the next few weeks, board officials said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chancellor Harold O. Levy will temporarily move his office to a school near the trade center site to try to relieve worries about air quality. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); AIR QUALITY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RELOCATIONS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); TERRORISM (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; AIR POLLUTION; TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC) 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; WYATT, EDWARD; LEVY, HAROLD O (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



140 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Fearing Unrest, China Presses Muslim Group 

BYLINE:  By CRAIG S. SMITH 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Abudu Pu'er, a young Uighur man from Xinjiang, the region in China's far west, didn't sleep much Sunday night. He wandered from gritty hostel to humble guest house looking for a bed, but was turned away at every door.
 "As soon as they see I am from Xinjiang, they tell me to go," he said Monday, standing with a handful of other weary Uighurs in the city's tiny Muslim neighborhood, which is itself slowly disappearing beneath churning construction sites. 
 Mr. Pu'er and his friends are members of a Muslim Turkic ethnic group with simmering resentment of Chinese rule who come to the city to trade raisins, melons and occasionally hashish. They now fear that Shanghai's police may round them up and send them to back to Xinjiang or to labor camps. 
A crackdown on Uighurs (pronounced WE-goors) in the city and elsewhere in the country is just one piece of a major effort to suppress potential unrest among the ethnic group, which poses the most credible threat of any group to China's internal cohesion.
If China were ever to break apart in the way that the Soviet Union did a decade ago, Xinjiang -- the region's name means New Territory, reflecting its integration into the Chinese empire in the 18th century -- could be the first to go.
China has joined Washington's developing alliance against Islamic terrorism in part because it is eager to win international support for its own campaign against Uighur separatists, who have long been viewed with sympathy in the West. The separatists claim that the Chinese government's economic and demographic policies are marginalizing the country's eight million Uighurs and will eventually lead to their cultural annihilation.
Since the Sept. 11 attacks in the United States, China has intensified the surveillance and control of Uighurs out of fears that its support for a war in Central Asia might ignite an uprising among the chronically restive population. Some Xinjiang Uighurs are known to have fought along the side of Afghanistan's Taliban rulersin preparation, they say, for fighting for their cause in China.
At least seven Uighurs were executed for "disrupting social order" and other vague crimes in the week leading up to the country's Oct. 1 holiday celebrating the Communist rise to power in 1949. Dozens of Uighurs have reportedly been detained.
"China is using the fight against terrorism as a cloak to round up Uighurs who they think may be dangerous," said Erkin Alptekin, the son of Isa Yusuf Alptekin, the late leader of the independent Eastern Turkestan Republic, which was established in Xinjiang in 1944.
Mr. Alptekin, speaking by telephone from Germany, fled with his family over the Karakoram Mountains to Indian Kashmir just before the Chinese Communists arrived in 1949. His brother, Arslan Alptekin, lost his toes to frostbite in the ordeal. A sister died.
He says the suppression of Uighurs is unwarranted because he and other prominent supporters of Uighur independence have never advocated violence, and militancy among the population is rare. Still, Mr. Alptekin said frustration among young Uighurs living under Chinese rule could be turned against the Chinese government if it backed a war in Afghanistan.
"We have been warning for years that Eastern Turkestan could blow up someday if it is surrounded by hot wars," said Mr. Alptekin, who is now general secretary of the Unrepresented Nations and Peoples Organization, which promotes the interests of people not directly represented in the United Nations. "If that happens, other Central Asians might try to cross the border to help their ethnic brothers." Eastern Turkestan is the name many supporters of an independent state prefer for Xinjiang.
China argues that Uighur separatists are already getting that help. Wang Jianping, an associate fellow at the Institute of World Religions under the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences in Beijing, says the separatists have in the past received moral support and arms from radical Islamic groups elsewhere in Central Asia and that some may have received training from the Taliban.
"There could be as few as 100, or as many as 500" who have received Taliban training, Mr. Wang said last week in a telephone interview. The anti-Taliban Northern Alliance has captured Uighurs fighting along with Taliban forces.
The immediate losers from the heightened tension are the majority of Uighurs in China who are increasingly unwelcome outside their home region, even as the ethnic Chinese presence in that region grows. Uighurs argue that the country's birth control policy ensures that their population growth cannot keep up with government-sponsored migration to Xinjiang by Han Chinese, China's dominant ethnic group, even though limits on the number of children they and other minorities can bear are less restrictive than for Hans. About 40 percent of Xinjiang's population is now Han Chinese compared with about 15 percent in 1949. Uighurs, once in the majority, have declined to about 47 percent of the population. Other ethnic groups include Kazakhs, Kyrgyz, Tajiks and Mongols. The population of the region's capital, Urumqi, is now 80 percent Han Chinese.
Shanghai, meanwhile, pared down its Uighur population after separatists in Xinjiang mounted a brief uprising and a subsequent string of bombings in several Chinese cities during the 1990's. Only a few dozen Uighur families have permanent household registrations in the city today and Uighurs say the city has stopped issuing temporary residency permits to members of the ethnic group.
The small hotel for Uighurs in the heart of the city's Muslim quarter on Zhejiang Road has been closed for more than a year. Chinese Muslims of other ethnic backgrounds pay $2.50 for a bed across the road at the Islamic Society's guest house in a crumbling former mosque built by Pakistanis before World War II, but Uighurs aren't allowed to stay there.
The intensified crackdown this month has further reduced their numbers and some Uighurs say they believe there are now fewer than 1,000 Uighurs in the city. Those picked up without temporary residency permits are put on a train back to Xinjiang, if they have the money to pay the fare. Otherwise, they are sent for a few months to a labor camp near Xuzhou, north of Shanghai, Uighurs here say.
China has also closed its narrow border with Afghanistan and moved troops to the border region, government officials say. The country has tightened controls at other crossings along its border with Pakistan, Tajikistan and Kyrgyzstan.
Xinjiang Airlines has doubled to two the number of armed guards on flights between Xinjiang and Islamabad, Moscow and Central Asian countries, according to Reuters, and airport security around the country has been increased. .
While China has said it has not stopped issuing visas to vistors of any nationality, immigration controls have already been tightened. Shanghai's immigration officials are refusing to extend visas for some Middle Easterners and South Asians.
Security is particularly tight in Shanghai ahead of the visit later this month by President Bush, who will attend a summit with leaders of the Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum. His Shanghai visit, which has been extended to three days to incorporate meetings that had been scheduled to take place in Beijing, will be his first trip outside the United States since the Sept. 11 attacks. It will also be his first foreign trip since a summit meeting of the Group of Eight industrialized nations in Genoa, Italy in July, where, according to the Egyptian and Italian governments, Mr. Bush was the target of a threat by Islamic terrorists. 
Yang Guoqiang, head of the city's APEC Preparatory Office, said the Ministry of Public Security and Shanghai's Public Security Bureau had mapped out a comprehensive plan to create a "web around the earth and sky" that would ensure the safety of the summit's participants.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Uighur men praying recently at a 568-year-old mosque in China's Xinjiang Province. China, in lending its support to the global antiterrorism campaign, has intensified a crackdown on the Muslim Uighurs. (The Associated Press) Map of China highlighting Shanghai: Uighurs in Shanghai say they are being driven out of the city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); TALIBAN (89%); TERRORISM (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ETHNICITY (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); RELIGION (71%); HIJACKING (69%); WAR ON TERROR (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UIGHURS (CHINESE ETHNIC GROUP) 

ORGANIZATION: ;TALIBAN (AFGHAN GROUP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NORTHWEST CHINA (97%); XINJIANG, CHINA (94%); EAST CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); KASHMIR (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); GERMANY (71%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); CHINA; XINJIANG PROVINCE (CHINA); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



141 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 504 words

HEADLINE: Claims for Unemployment Benefits Reach a Nine-Year High 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The number of workers filing new claims for state unemployment benefits soared last week to a nine-year high as economic damage spread from the terrorist attacks.
 Initial jobless claims rose by 71,000, to 528,000, in the week ended Saturday, the Labor Department said. The level of new claims is the most since the week ended July 25, 1992, during a companywide shutdown of plants by General Motors. 
 The rise comes after a gain of 64,000 the previous week and reflects job cuts at airlines and travel-related companies. The attacks disrupted business across the nation and probably pushed the economy into recession, analysts say.
"This is just the initial wave of layoffs due to the attacks," said Steven Wood, chief economist at FinancialOxygen Inc. "There's another wave behind it."
Announcements of job cuts rose to a record 248,332 in September, according to the outplacement firm Challenger, Gray & Christmas. That was the most since 205,975 job cuts were announced in July and more than four times the number in September last year.
Increasing job cuts help explain why the unemployment rate probably rose to a four-year high of 5 percent in September, according to the median forecast in a separate Bloomberg News survey.
Employers are likely to have eliminated 100,000 jobs last month after a reduction of 113,000 in August, according to the survey. That would be the first time since March-April 1991, the end of the last recession, that payrolls were cut by 100,000 or more workers in consecutive months. The Labor Department is scheduled to release those statistics on Friday.
Because federal law requires companies under certain conditions to give workers 60 days' notice of mass dismissals, the latest surge in announced layoffs may not show up on the unemployment rolls for several more weeks.
The four-week moving average of claims, which smooths out volatility in the weekly numbers, rose last week to 453,500 -- the highest since December 1991 as unemployment continued to rise in the wake of the last recession -- from 424,000 the previous week.
"We are beginning to see secondary impact across the country" from the terrorist attacks, said Cynthia Ambler, a Labor Department spokeswoman. The department expects to have more detail next week when state reports are more complete, she said.
A separate government report showed new orders placed at manufacturers were little changed in August as inventories declined for the seventh consecutive month.
Factory orders were valued at $332.6 billion in August, after falling 0.1 percent in July, the Commerce Department reported. Orders excluding transportation equipment rose 0.2 percent in August after dropping 0.3 percent a month earlier.
Manufacturing has been in a 14-month slump through September, according to a report from the National Association of Purchasing Management that was released earlier this week.
Nonetheless, the group's measure of new orders showed that more manufacturers reported increasing orders in August and September than posted a decline.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows initial jobless claims from April-Sept. 2001.(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Factory Orders"Manufacturers' total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly ChangeAug.: Unch.July: -0.1%June: -2.9 Graph shows figures from May 2000-Aug. 2001.(Source: Commerce Department)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (95%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); RECESSION (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (87%); FACTORY ORDERS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); INVENTORIES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); NEW ORDERS (78%); CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); AIRLINES (75%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (73%); CHRISTMAS (67%) LABOR; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (60%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (56%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%) ;LABOR DEPARTMENT; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



142 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE PENSION FUNDS; 
Leaders Say Union Funds Will Help Rebuild City

BYLINE:  By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
State Comptroller H. Carl McCall met yesterday with city and state union leaders who oversee a combined $280 billion in pension funds to develop a plan to help finance the rebuilding of office towers and transit systems destroyed by the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center.
 The union leaders emphasized their desire to invest what could potentially be more than $1 billion in transportation projects and new commercial buildings in Lower Manhattan, alongside the federal government, which has promised $20 billion in aid to clean up the debris at the trade center and rehabilitate the area. 
 Also attending the meeting in Manhattan late yesterday afternoon were City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, who helps oversee five pension funds for municipal employees, and Felix G. Rohatyn, the financier who was at the heart of the city's recovery after the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and who has advocated investing pension funds in infrastructure projects nationally.
"We want to make it clear that we stand ready to provide some of the financial resources to move projects forward," said Mr. McCall, who serves as the sole trustee for the $112 billion of the state employees' common retirement fund. "We expect the federal, state and city governments, as well as the private sector, to do their part as well. We're willing to participate in the overall investment pool." 
The meeting yesterday reunited Mr. Rohatyn with the city's municipal union leaders in an echo of the 1970's, when New York City was teetering at the edge of bankruptcy. In 1975, Gov. Hugh L. Carey and the State Legislature appointed Mr. Rohatyn chairman of the Municipal Assistance Corporation and a member of the Financial Control Board, which had been created to salvage the city's dire financial structure. The financier wielded considerable power through the assistance corporation and the control board, which had the power to reject city budgets, contracts and labor agreements.
The group that met yesterday did not make any specific commitments, and said that individual developments would have to be identified by state and city officials and private developers. But Mr. McCall said that the pension funds could purchase bonds issued by the state or the city and guaranteed by the federal government, could provide mortgage financing for office development or could invest directly in a project.
"Everybody's on board with the concept," said Alan Lubin, executive vice president of the New York State United Teachers, which represents about 460,000 members. "It's an important investment, given the crisis we're facing in the city and across the state. To me, the first need is for office space to try to keep the business and jobs in New York. I'm sure they're getting entreaties to go to Jersey."
Mr. Lubin and Mr. McCall, who were among the 30 people at the meeting in Manhattan yesterday, said that investments would be consistent with their fiduciary responsibility to get a good return. They said they hoped that the Federal government would agree to guarantee whatever bonds were issued.
Last month John Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said that the national unions in the association would make available $500 million in pension funds for economic development in the city.
Since the Sept. 11 attack, the city has endured a cascade of bad news, starting with the loss of more than 5,000 lives and continuing through the destruction of about 15 million square feet of office buildings.
Mr. Hevesi's office estimated yesterday that the disaster would cost New Yorkers as much as $105 billion over the next two years. So far only $126 million of a promised $20 billion in federal aid has seeped into the city. There is a great deal of confusion about whether the money can be used for new projects, tax breaks and to replace lost tax revenues.
In 1975, Mr. Rohatyn brought together union leaders and bankers under the banner of "shared sacrifice" in the effort to resurrect the city's fiscal affairs.
But the bankers closed the credit markets to New York City. So it was city employees who did much of the sacrificing. Mr. Rohatyn ultimately persuaded city labor leaders -- Victor Gotbaum, Barry Feinstein and Albert Shanker -- to accept a municipal wage freeze and layoffs and to use pension funds to buy more than $2 billion in municipal bonds.
Although the union leaders took an enormous risk, the bonds turned out to be a good investment, said Mike Wallace, a history professor at John Jay College of Criminal Justice. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PENSION FUNDS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); BOND ISSUES (74%); BUDGETS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); APPOINTMENTS (66%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



143 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS; 
U.S. Acts On Shortage Of Treasuries

BYLINE:  By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER 

 BODY:
The government, which normally announces the sale of Treasury securities well in advance, conducted an immediate auction for the first time yesterday in an effort to ease problems in the Treasury market.
 In the last two weeks, an unusually large amount of trades have not settled. If the problem persists, the big institutional dealers at the core of the market would not be able to function normally, which could lead to distortion of prices and an unwillingness to trade. 
 The United States Treasury market is crucial to the smooth operation of all financial markets, and worried investors flock to securities backed by the government in times of adversity. The recent terrorist attacks and military buildup have increased demand for these securities, even as market participants struggle to restore trading and settle transactions. 
But there were signs of some relief yesterday after the Treasury announced its snap sale at 11 a.m., and finished its auction of $6 billion in 10-year notes two hours later.
"We want to reduce the risk that these settlement problems turn into a much bigger problem for the Treasury market itself," said Peter R. Fisher, undersecretary of the Treasury for domestic finance. 
The large number of unsettled trades, which are called fails, stemmed from a shortage of the actively traded 2-year, 5-year and 10-year Treasury notes. There were simply not enough securities available to deliver to complete trades.
The Federal Reserve Bank of New York said that total fails, which may include double and triple counting of the same unsettled trade, reached $1.4 trillion in the week ended Sept. 19 and fell to just more than $800 billion the next week. The weekly average in the second quarter was $45 billion.
It was clear early this week that the threat of trades not being completed was creating a major distortion in what is called the repo market. By yesterday, the Treasury and major players in the bond market were worried that the distortions could spread.
"We have something that is self-compounding," Mr. Fisher said. "There is some point at which your fails pile up, and that is the point at which you damage the price-discovery process and the smooth operating of the Treasury market." He said that the Treasury would consider doing a similar sale of five-year notes if the shortage problem persisted there.
Eric Foster, the head of the government and federal agency securities division of the Bond Market Association, praised the Treasury move. "We need to have a marketplace where when a dealer says, 'I will deliver a security,' he will deliver the security," he said.
The repo market is where Treasury securities are borrowed and lent. It is crucial to the operation of the Treasury market because it provides the funds that dealers need to pay for the securities they have bought and, therefore, helps keep trading running smoothly. The dealers use the securities they have bought as collateral on loans and agree to repurchase the securities at a set date.
With the prospect that securities might not be returned, both dealers and large investors have become unwilling to lend them in the repo market.
This unwillingness drove the cost of short-term borrowing using Treasury securities as collateral to near zero earlier this week. Normally, the rate would be close to the 2.5 percent federal funds rate, which is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans, and the Federal Reserve's target interest rate.
Among the possible reasons for the shortage are an increasing demand for a safe investment, the reluctance of a number of foreign central banks to lend them recently and the unwillingness of some investors to enter into such trades at the end of the third quarter. Mr. Fisher said that there was no suggestion a large holder of Treasury notes was trying to manipulate or squeeze the market. 
In doing the sale, the Treasury issued $6 billion more of the same 10-year notes it sold in August. Those notes, which will mature on Aug. 15, 2011, are the ones in short supply now. The $6 billion in additional notes brings the total outstanding to $17 billion.
It will not be clear until the new notes are available today if the shortage is eased. But Paul Scheufele, head of United States repo trading at Credit Suisse First Boston, said, "The $6 billion in new notes should go a long way to help clear up the fails situation." He added that late yesterday there were signs that the problems in the repo market were easing.
In the Treasury market yesterday, the announcement of the sale sent prices of longer-term notes and bonds lower after they rallied on the report of a sharp increase in initial jobless claims. In late trading, the price of the 10-year note was down 10/32, to 103 28/32 while the yield, which moves in the opposite direction, was up to 4.51 percent, from 4.47 percent Wednesday. 

Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of 10-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.394
High Yield: 4.519%
Low Yield: 4.400%
Median Yield: 4.499%
Total applied for: $14,175,225
Accepted: $6,000,038
Noncompetitive: $225
Interest set at: 5

The 10-year notes mature Aug. 15, 2011.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since May 2001. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph: "10-Year Treasury Notes" shows the high yield in quarterly refunding auction since 1997. (Source: Treasury Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); AUCTIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (66%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (66%)

PERSON: FUERBRINGER, JONATHAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



144 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
City Says the Attack Could Cost $105 Billion

BYLINE:  By LESLIE EATON

 BODY:
City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi issued the first official estimate yesterday of how much the World Trade Center disaster will cost New Yorkers, and the number is a shocker: as much as $105 billion over the next two years.
 The estimate includes $34 billion in property damage and up to $60 billion in economic costs, including lost jobs and lost rents. 
 The encyclopedic study calculates everything from the cost of rebuilding the twin towers ($6.7 billion) to revenue lost because fewer traffic tickets will be issued ($82 million). 
While the comptroller's office is widely respected for its economic forecasts, it is clearly in the city's interest to make the total as big as possible so that officials can ask for increased federal aid. Mr. Hevesi urged them to do so, saying, "We took the hit for America." 
The report was issued as Gov. George E. Pataki's budget director estimated that the state would lose $1 billion to $3 billion in revenues in the fiscal year that ends in April, and $2 billion to $6 billion in the next fiscal year, as a result of the attack on the trade center. The budget director, Carole E. Stone, acknowledged that those were rough estimates based mostly on anecdotal information.
The governor has promised to balance this year's budget without resorting to layoffs or tax increases. Ms. Stone ordered state agencies in a letter yesterday to hold spending in their budgets for next year at this year's levels.
Almost 6,000 people who applied for unemployment benefits in the last week said it was because of the trade center disaster, bringing the total of disaster-related job losses so far to 16,747, according to the New York State Department of Labor.
The Hevesi report estimates that the city will lose 115,274 jobs in its current fiscal year, which ends June 30. The largest losses -- 28,717 -- will come in services, including at least 6,000 airline jobs. Sales, retail or wholesale, will also be hard hit, with job losses of more than 17,000.
But the biggest chunk of lost wages -- which will total almost $9.6 billion -- will come from a loss of Wall Street paychecks totaling $3.4 billion. 
One of the report's most controversial figures may be its estimate of the loss of "human capital," $11 billion. "It is impossible to put a real value on a human life and the pain of losing a loved one," Mr. Hevesi said.
But Mr. Hevesi noted that economists "ascribe value to human life" by calculating how much people might earn in their working years. Economists in his office assumed that about 5,600 people were killed in the disaster, that they had about 20 working years left apiece, and that their average income was $100,000.
The damage to the city's budget, while serious, is not as severe as the overall injury to the economy, Mr. Hevesi said. 
Tax collections are likely to drop by $738 million this fiscal year, the report said. The biggest decline will be in hotel and sales taxes, which are forecast to fall by $338 million.
Because the city has been running a small surplus, it will be able to take "manageable" steps to balance its budget, as required by law, Mr. Hevesi said. But the next fiscal year may be more of a problem. The comptroller's office had been predicting a deficit of at least $3.6 billion, and that will grow if tax collections fall by an estimated $567 million.
The report calculates that replacing the entire trade center complex and repairing damaged buildings nearby will cost $12 billion. The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey's losses in addition to the trade center (it owned the buildings and leased them to a private developer) are $2.4 billion.
Fixing the subways will cost about $3 billion, while repairing phone and electrical systems will cost $2 billion. Replacing what was lost in the trade center's stores adds another $2 billion to the tab. The report estimates the value of property in and around the towers, from cars in the garages to computers, was $12 billion.
There will be some money coming into the city that will help offset New Yorkers' losses, the report notes. Families of the victims are likely to receive about $4 billion from life insurance payments, while property insurance should contribute $17 billion. Other kinds of insurance, covering disabled workers and interrupted business, could pay as much as $18 billion, while workers' compensation would amount to about $3 billion.
Finally, there is federal and state aid. Congress has appropriated $20 billion for recovery, but the money must be shared with Pennsylvania and Washington, where hijacked planes also caused damage. "Clearly, given the costs," Mr. Hevesi said, "this will not be enough."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "THE COST: Assessing Financial Damages"The New York City Comptroller's Office has released a preliminary report estimating the impact of the World Trade Center attack on the economy of New York City. TOTAL ESTIMATED LOSS: $90-105 In billions of dollars Capital Loss PROPERTY LOSS AND DAMAGEReplacement of buildings in trade center complex: 6.7Repair or replacement of buildings around complex: 12.0Port Authority (losses separate from complex): 2.4Metropolitan Transportation Authority: 3.0AT&T, Verizon and Con Ed: 2.0Retail-space inventory and fixtures: 2.0Technology losses at securities firms in the trade center: 3.2Technology losses at other companies: 0.5Business fixtures: 2.5 HUMAN CAPITAL (LIVES LOST)*: 11.0 Continuing Economic Costs PROPERTY CLEANUP/RESCUE/POLICINGAlready spent on cleanup: 1.0Additional budget for cleanup: 5.0Private spending for cleanup: 1.0Police and fire overtime: 3.6Police and fire equipment, road reconstruction and school aid: 3.6 HUMAN DISABILITY AND TRAUMALeave from work: 1.2Medical cost: 0.7Pain and suffering: 0.8 BUSINESS INTERRUPTION AND LIABILITY LOSSESFirst four days: 1.8Next four weeks: 4.9Next nine months: 14.2Losses due to jobs relocated out of the city:Rents and wages this year: 4.0Rents and wages next year: 3.0-18.0 *Based on the average income and expected working lives of the dead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITY LIFE (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (76%); GOVERNORS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



145 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Power Crisis Abates, but It Hounds Gov. Davis 

BYLINE:  By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: MANHATTAN BEACH, Calif., Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Gov. Gray Davis spoke animatedly with a cluster of national guardsmen today at a training compound here just south of Los Angeles, emphasizing his support for their critical mission: protecting airports. Although this was not the sort of appearance the governor used to make, it was the second this week in which he had placed himself in front of cameras with uniformed guardsmen. 
 In fact, it was just the sort of appearance governors across the country are making as they seek to identify themselves with the popular campaign for greater domestic security. But while many incumbents are enjoying a lift among the public, with voters expressing a desire for stability over change, Mr. Davis could turn out to be the exception, political experts say. 
 Mr. Davis, a centrist Democrat who took office with a landslide election victory three years ago, has seen his approval ratings slump for months, even as the state's energy crisis has abated. What appeared likely to be a runaway re-election race for which he has already raised more than $30 million now looks as if it could prove a tough battle. 
Polls taken in early September, before the terrorist attacks, showed Mr. Davis trailing former Mayor Richard J. Riordan of Los Angeles, a potential Republican challenger in next year's race, by a couple of percentage points, even though Mr. Riordan has yet to formally announce and is not well known in many parts of the state. 
Mr. Davis took office at a time of vast prosperity and was fond of saying his three highest priorities were education, education and education. Now the state is facing a sharp decline in revenue and sliding into an economic downturn that some economists say could be deeper than that elsewhere in the country. 
The governor's biggest political problem, though, may be the lingering effects of the energy crisis, which started in the summer of last year.
Polls have consistently shown that while voters do not hold the governor responsible for the crisis itself, they are critical of his policies for resolving it. Those policies have included enormous state spending to provide adequate supplies of electricity and big rate increases that could last for years; rates of some customers are up 40 percent since last fall.
In addition, his plan for keeping Southern California Edison, the state's second-largest utility, out of bankruptcy has inflamed already angry consumer advocates, who say he is helping a campaign contributor at the expense of ratepayers. 
Even the fact that the state got through this summer without the power blackouts many had predicted has not helped the governor, in large part because of his approach to controlling the crisis. 
"Here we're in a situation where the market prices for electricity have dropped tenfold since the spring, and yet Davis's plan has locked in the rate increases for years," said Harvey Rosenfield, an official of the Foundation for Taxpayer and Consumer Rights. "Every time consumers get their bills, they are reminded why Davis has done a poor job." 
Shirley Bebitch Jeffe, a senior scholar at the University of Southern California, added, "I'm astonished that his polls keep getting worse, but it does show you how a pocketbook issue like this can stick." 
Garry South, a top adviser to the governor, noted that the latest poll reflecting trouble for him was taken before the terrorist attacks, and said private polls had shown growing support for his performance. 
But the energy issue has undoubtedly proved frustrating to Mr. Davis. Earlier this year, many political experts said that if he could just keep the lights on through the summer, his political fortunes would revive. 
The governor feverishly fashioned a virtual state takeover of the energy market at a cost of tens of billions of dollars, raised utility rates sharply and pushed conservation. By midsummer, the state actually found itself with a surplus of power and was forced to resell some at a loss, a sign that the worst was past. 
But surveys suggest that Californians saw such signs as evidence of questionable management. A poll by the nonpartisan Field Institute taken in early September, before the terrorist attacks, showed that more respondents disapproved of Mr. Davis's overall performance, 47 percent, than approved, 41 percent. Even after a series of blackouts last winter, the governor had a 60 percent approval rating in January. 
"Davis is seen as joined at the hip with the energy issue," said Mark DiCamillo, director of the Field Poll. "This is going to continue to be an albatross around his neck, because what people seem to be thinking about is the increase in rates. It's almost like a tax increase." 
Mr. South, the Davis adviser, said that "people don't know what the governor has done" to resolve the energy crisis. In any case, he said, Mr. Davis will ensure that the top campaign issue next year is not energy but instead Mr. Riordan, whom Mr. South described as "naive" and "a pathetic candidate." 
The governor himself said in an interview here today that he did not put much stock in polls but that he felt his response to the national crisis would ultimately help him politically. "I don't expect people to get up and applaud because the lights stayed on," he said. Then he added: "The bottom line is we're in extraordinary times, which require extraordinary leadership. I believe if I do my job well, everything else will take care of itself."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Gray Davis of California discussing airport security with national guardsmen in Sacramento on Tuesday. Whatever the political benefit of such appearances, the effects of an energy crisis cripple his popularity. (Associated Press); A consumer group protests a bailout of Southern California Edison. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); AIRLINES (77%); HIJACKING (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (68%); POWER FAILURES (68%); MISSING PERSONS (67%); TERRORISM (66%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; SHORTAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US) 

COMPANY: SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ;NATIONAL GUARD (US) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (52%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; DAVIS, GRAY (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) CALIFORNIA; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



146 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: House Rejects an Effort To Redirect Farm Policy 

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH BECKER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The House narrowly defeated an effort to shift billions of dollars to environmental programs today, derailing a measure endorsed by the Bush administration to redirect farm policy away from crop subsidies for big farmers in favor of trade and environmental measures.
 With the defeat of an amendment to shift the focus, the House was poised to approve a 10-year, $171 billion farm bill that would increase crop subsidies for grain and cotton farmers, as well as adding money for the food stamp program and several conservation programs. 
 By a vote of 226 to 200, the House rejected an amendment that would have given $19 billion to environmental programs rather than commodity programs for the largest farmers. 
The environmental measure was supported by a loose coalition that included lawmakers from Eastern and Western states that receive a relatively small share of the $20 billion in annual crop payments and representatives from urban areas who wanted more money for farmers to clean up water supplies and protect open spaces. 
"Even though we lost this vote, it sends a clear message that people want a policy that would benefit all farmers in all parts of the country and helps the environment," said Representative Ron Kind, the Wisconsin Democrat who co-sponsored the amendment.
The measure was defeated primarily by lawmakers from the traditional farm states. They considered the measure a threat to the current subsidy programs that largely reward only farmers of cotton, wheat, corn, rice and soybeans. The new House farm bill would not alter the present system, where 8 percent of American farmers receive nearly half of the federal subsidies.
"This amendment would devastate agriculture," said Representative Larry Combest, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the Agriculture Committee and sponsored the bill. "I didn't notice any people who farm are among the supporters of their amendment.
But in a sign of the growing strength of that environmental movement, defenders of the $171 billion House farm bill also argued that theirs was an environmentally friendly bill.
"This is the greenest farm bill that has ever passed Congress," said Representative Charles W. Stenholm of Texas, the ranking Democrat on the Agriculture Committee and co-sponsor of the House bill. 
In a largely Republican rivalry over the direction of American agriculture, the Bush administration officially objected to Mr. Combest's bill on Wednesday, saying it hurt foreign trade and gave too much money to big farmers and not enough to conservation programs. The administration also warned against locking in $171 billion for agriculture when the government was considering billions of dollars of programs to fight terrorism.
The Senate has yet to write its version of a farm bill to replace the current law, which expires in 2002. 
But the ranking senators on the Agriculture Committee have been vocal supporters of the administration's proposed overhaul of farm policy to reflect the explosive changes in agriculture. They have argued that the Depression-era subsidy programs have to be changed in favor of smaller farmers and the rural economy.
That sentiment was reflected in the debate on the House floor today.
"The future for farmers is about forging an alliance between urban and suburban areas and rural communities, to include the other half of America" said Representative George Miller, Democrat of California. 
Supporters of Mr. Combest's bill said the focus should stay on agriculture.
"This is a farm bill, not an environment bill," said Representative Gil Gutknecht, Republican of Minnesota.
The House also rejected an effort to debate whether to extend dairy compacts that set milk prices in the Northeast, Southeast and West. The pricing system for New England expired on Sunday.
The wide-ranging provisions of the farm bill also included increased financing for food stamp programs as well as school breakfast and lunch programs, the traditional trade-off for urban areas that are otherwise ignored in the measure.
In a vote of 239 to 177, the House defeated a bid to reduce the support rate for sugar by 3 cents a pound.
Animal rights advocates won passage of an amendment to ban interstate commerce in cockfighting roosters. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (92%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); COTTON FARMING (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); FOOD STAMPS (56%); TERRORISM (50%) AGRICULTURE; ENVIRONMENT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (57%)

PERSON: RON KIND (58%) BECKER, ELIZABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



147 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: PEACE ACTIVISTS; 
Groups Plan Vigils and Rallies to Urge Alternatives to War

BYLINE:  By GUSTAV NIEBUHR

 BODY:
Peace groups around the nation are preparing vigils and rallies on Sunday to demand legal and diplomatic alternatives to war.
 The American Friends Service Committee, Pax Christi USA, the War Resisters League and others have asked their members to participate in the local gatherings, including a march and rally in New York, beginning at Union Square. 
 "We're encouraging peace groups throughout the country to get together and formulate their own way to speak out and promote peace," said Janis Shields, spokeswoman for the American Friends, a Quaker organization.
The idea, Ms. Shields said, is "to call attention to the fact that not everyone is calling for war in these trying days." 
Leaders in the groups say there has been a growing grass-roots demand for public expressions of sentiment in favor of peace.
"It's really spontaneous," said the Rev. Chris Ney, national coordinator at the War Resisters League, a 78-year-old organization based in New York. "I wish I could say we're organizing it. We're just providing skills that we have."
Marches and vigils have been held in Washington, Philadelphia and western Massachusetts. Besides the New York rally, Sunday events are planned in Chicago, Philadelphia and Bangor, Me., and elsewhere.
Common themes include not just opposition to war, but also condemnation of the terrorist acts, a call to defend American civil liberties and a rejection of bias against Arabs, Muslims and immigrants.
The ideas are stated on the War Resisters League's Internet site, warresisters.org, which also calls for peace through "economic and social justice." That reflects a common view among peace groups that the United States must work to mitigate such problems as poverty in developing nations if it is to eliminate the threat of terrorism.
But the peace argument differs from another stand with a long history in Christian tradition, recently articulated by Roman Catholic and Protestant leaders, that there are instances in which war may be justly waged. 
In a recent interview, Richard D. Land, president of the Ethics and Public Policy Commission in the Southern Baptist Convention, said the central principle for allowing a nation to enter into war was "just cause." Mr. Land added, "War is only permissible to resist aggression and to defend those victimized by it."
In a letter laced with references to the theory of just war, the nation's Catholic bishops wrote to President Bush two weeks ago, saying military action must be considered as one option, along with diplomatic and legal means.
A further principle was enunciated by Cardinal Bernard Law, archbishop of Boston, in a recent column in his archdiocese's newspaper: "The grave obligation to protect innocent human life must govern our political and military decisions."
But leading opponents of war have argued that the terrorist attacks should not be regarded as an act of war, requiring a military response, but as an international crime, demanding legal pursuit, arrest and trial of the perpetrators, as well as diplomatic and financial penalties against the aggressors and their backers.
"We believe the perpetrators should be brought to justice, but under the rule of law," said Mary Ellen McNish, general secretary of the American Friends. "Not only the perpetrators, but those who supported them."
Similarly, Bishop Thomas Gumbleton, past president of Pax Christi, called the terrorist attacks a crime against humanity.
"So it ought to be dealt with by the whole community of nations," Bishop Gumbleton said. "This means you have to have an international tribunal where such crimes are brought into an international court."
Members of Pax Christi, the national Catholic peace movement, plan to participate in at least 13 antiwar events on Sunday, Dave Robinson, the group's national director, said. Among them will be a vigil at the Pennsylvania Capitol in Harrisburg, Mr. Robinson said.
Another will take place in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Palm Beach, Fla., where Pax Christi members plan to gather in a church to pray the rosary for peace, an act of special significance, given that Sunday is the Feast of the Holy Rosary.
Beth Cioffoletti, the chapter's coordinator, said that since the terrorist attacks, the Palm Beach Pax Christi group, with a "core group" of 25 active members, had drawn greater interest.
"At our last meeting, which was held the Friday after the World Trade Center calamity," Ms. Cioffoletti said, "we had three new people who walked in and said, 'I have to find people I can relate to.' It's unusual to have people walk in off the street."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 11, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about peace rallies misstated the name of a Southern Baptist Convention body headed by Richard D. Land, who said war was permissible only to resist aggression and defend those victimized by it. He is president of the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, not Ethics and Public Policy. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cardinal Bernard Law said the obligation to protect innocent lives must govern military decisions. (Reuters, 2000 ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RELIGION (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (85%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (85%); ETHICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (75%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (69%); INTERVIEWS (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

ORGANIZATION: WAR RESISTERS LEAGUE (93%); PAX CHRISTI - USA (84%); AMERICAN FRIENDS SERVICE COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); BANGOR, ME, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



148 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: AN ASSESSMENT; 
In Germany, Terrorists Made Use of a Passion: An Open Democracy

BYLINE:  By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: BERLIN, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
While the terrorists who plotted and carried out the Sept. 11 attacks on the United States lived and worked in many European countries, including Britain and France, Germany appears to have been their haven of choice.
 There are many reasons, among them the fact that the terrorists could blend into a society with a large Muslim population and more foreigners than any other in Europe. It also seems that post-war Germany's hyper-consciousness about its totalitarian history -- both Nazism and East German Communism -- may have contributed to an openness and a laxity toward security threats that made it an almost ideal spot for "sleepers" to integrate and recruit others. 
 "Germans are so eager not to be Nazis that they can be lax about using the powers of the state," said Kai Hafez of the German Institute for Middle East Studies in Hamburg, where Mohamed Atta and at least four other suspects in the attacks lived. 
"From our own history, we've had to prove to the world that we're a democratic state," Mr. Hafez said -- careful about privacy and religious freedom, welcoming to asylum seekers, anti-war and anti-imperialist.
Catherine Kelleher, the director of the Aspen Institute Berlin, suggested that the very pride and protectiveness of Germans with respect to their post-war democratic gains made them reluctant to accept any infringement on personal freedom. Privacy and data-protection laws make it more difficult here than in America to check basic personal and financial histories, like credit-worthiness, salary levels or even addresses and telephone numbers.
In some ways, Ms. Kelleher and others said, the impact of the 1968 student revolutions was stronger in Germany than even in Paris. Here, the revolt against the staid post-war Adenauer government produced both pacifism and leftist terrorism, with the younger left -- now in power -- more committed to personal ideals and non-state goals than the traditional left.
From the 1960's onward, the influx of Turkish "guest workers" who toiled on behalf of the German economic miracle also brought large numbers of Muslims to Germany. Today, there are about three million Muslims here, some 2.5 million of them Turkish, Mr. Hafez said, and largely concentrated in big cities.
Berlin, for instance, is the third-largest Turkish city in the world, and there are districts of Hamburg and Berlin where a stroller sees far more head scarves than in New York or even London. 
Stronger anti-terrorism laws were put in place in the mid-1970's to give investigators and prosecutors more leeway against internal terrorists like the Red Army Faction. Yet it was not until 1998, for example, that the constitution was changed to allow wiretapping of private dwellings, which had been forbidden -- except under extraordinary circumstances -- under an article guaranteeing the inviolability of the home.
Until very recently, the government had also been hampered by traditional, post-Nazi restrictions on the exchange of information between domestic and foreign intelligence agencies, and between them and the local police, a senior German intelligence official said. All this is now being re-examined and adjusted, he said, along with some of the strict privacy protections on telephone and financial records.
The Bush administration is now proposing new legislation intended to make it difficult for terrorists to hide in the United States. Whether any such measures would have enabled authorities to detect the cell in Hamburg is not clear.
"In the last 10 years, we were too lax about the peace dividend," said Margarita Mathiopoulos, a defense and security analyst with the European Advisory Group. "The clue to these terrorists is that they behave normally and integrate into society. They managed well here, and I suspect they managed well in Paris and London."
Until now, if German security services learned something abroad, for instance, about support inside Germany for Basque or Mideast terrorists, they could not pass that information along to German prosecutors or internal intelligence agencies.
Terrorism itself was defined strictly as relating only to attacks on Germany. Much of German intelligence was devoted to that internal terrorism, to the cold war, and to the threat of neo-Nazis and other domestic extremists. The absence of major incidents attributed to German-based Muslim extremists -- a 1986 Berlin disco bombing that killed two American servicemen and one other person was attributed to agents from Libya -- also meant there was little history of Muslim extremism.
France, by contrast, with a population of five million Muslims, mostly from Francophone northern Africa, cracked down hard on terrorism in the mid-1990's following a series of lethal bombings. As a strong, centralized state, France had few legal impediments to such action.
Intelligence and legal officials from both France and Germany say that crackdown led the police to some extremists, while apparently dispersing others to Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany.
While Germany has profound policy and emotional ties to Israel, German officials say strong business and foreign policy ties to Iran, Iraq, Libya and other Muslim states created a historic disincentive among the intelligence services to make too many waves. "Sometimes the police here behave too much like the American Civil Liberties Union," one Western diplomat said. "And the secret services behave too much like the A.C.L.U. as well."
Mr. Hafez notes another connection. "Many Arabs feel close to Germany because of its history of partition, unification and external intervention, which they see as analogous to their own experiences," he said. 
Karsten Voigt, head of trans-Atlantic cooperation at the Foreign Ministry, points outs that Germany is a highly multiethnic country, where Muslims "can simply hide more easily than in New York." 
He also noted Germany's efforts, now being rapidly modified, to protect privacy and religious belief, even if religion is used to advocate hatred or raise money for terrorism. "The Turks tell us we are much too liberal," Mr. Voigt said. "The legal system protected you if you propagated hate crimes in the context of religion. Now that is changing." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); RELIGION (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); DATA PROTECTION LAWS (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (70%); DATA SECURITY (70%); FOREIGN LABOR (69%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (67%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (66%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (66%); WIRETAPPING (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ASPEN INSTITUTE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (94%); HAMBURG, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) GERMANY (95%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); TURKEY (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



149 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agency Predicts Drop in Cost of Gasoline and Heating Fuel 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The cost of gasoline, heating fuel and electricity are expected to be much lower this winter than last, the government said today.
 A report by the Energy Information Administration, the analysis arm of the Energy Department, said that prices had been declining and should continue to do so in the coming months. The reasons are adequate inventories and a declining demand for energy because of the poor economy, the agency said. 
 The most striking turnaround has been in the prices of natural gas, which heats more than 56 million homes.
A typical household using natural gas is expected to spend about a third less this winter for heating, a savings of about $320 over last winter, the agency said. 
Homeowners using heating oil and propane will most likely have their fuel costs drop 17 percent to 23 percent, a savings of at least $170.
Despite the lower energy prices, state officials and private groups helping the poor say that for low-income families, fuel costs could still bring tough times. Many of them have not recovered from the financial setbacks brought on by the high energy prices of last winter.
Industrial demand for natural gas fell by 18 percent over the first half of the year and is expected to continue falling because of the declining economy, the report said.
Gasoline prices, which normally decline in the winter, were projected to decline on a national average to below $1.35 a gallon by the end of the year. The price could be lower in some states with low fuel taxes.
The average price of regular gasoline nationwide was $1.41 a gallon this week, down about 11 cents a gallon from the same time a year ago, the Energy Information Administration said. That drop has occurred in the three weeks since the terrorist attacks, the administration's report said.
The lower energy prices across the board reflect largely the drop in crude oil prices combined with an expectation that the poor economy will lead to a further decline in demand this winter.
The spot price for light sweet crude on Thursday was $22.27 in New York with the price for delivery in December only 17 cents higher. Crude oil prices were $31 a barrel earlier this year.
With fuel prices dropping, the Bush administration gave a lukewarm reception to a suggestion by a Congressional panel that it pump more oil into the government's Strategic Petroleum Reserve.
With little debate and no opposition, a House subcommittee approved a resolution formally urging that the emergency stockpile be expanded to its full capacity of one billion barrels.
The reserve holds about 545 million barrels in salt caverns on the Gulf Coast along the Louisiana-Texas border. The United States uses about 19 million barrels of oil a day, about 10 million barrels of which are imported.
The resolution is expected to be taken up by the full House, possibly next week. 
The Energy Department had little to say about the proposal, releasing aone-sentence statement that said, "The secretary appreciates Congress' interests in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which is an integral part of our national energy security."
While not ruling out some modest increase in the reserve, administration officials are concerned any large purchase of oil could drive up prices even before the contracts go out. A jump in crude prices could quickly add to the economic downturn. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (94%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (91%); GASOLINE (91%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (85%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); STRATEGIC FUEL RESERVES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); PROPANE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); FAMILY (76%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (74%); FUEL TAX (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (73%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ENERGY AND POWER; GAS (FUEL); ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER 

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (84%) ENERGY DEPARTMENT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



150 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1219 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE REAL ESTATE; 
Trade Center Leaseholder Pledges to Rebuild

BYLINE:  By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
The schedule for a Nov. 11 lecture at the Real Estate Institute of New York University called for its moderator, Larry A. Silverstein, to relive his triumph in acquiring a 99-year lease on the World Trade Center, a feat he accomplished in July. Last week, Mr. Silverstein, a real estate developer, decided not to cancel the lecture. Instead, he altered the pamphlet to read, "The World Trade Center: What Is to Come," and did not include a question mark.
 Less than a month after the famed twin towers fell to dust, Mr. Silverstein is making plans and hiring architects to rebuild the center. 
 "I am obligated by my lease to pay rent for 99 years, I am obligated to rebuild, and I have the money to rebuild," he explained, referring in an interview to his expectation that insurance companies would pay him more than enough money to build what he vowed would be "world class quality" office buildings. "It seems to me I am going to end up rebuilding; the only question is how best to accomplish that," he said. 
That sunny confidence, arching over the gulch of questions and concerns confronting survivors, financiers, lawyers, engineers and city, state and federal officials, works as a tonic for many who fear that the financial district may never recover. But Mr. Silverstein's pledge -- he said he wanted to erect an "appropriate" memorial to the 6,000 victims and resurrect ten million square feet of lost office space -- also serves as a way for him to stake his claim early in a shifting landscape of loss, economic uncertainty, competition and clashing political interests. 
Mary Ann Tighe, vice-chairwoman of the real estate brokerage firm Insignia/ESG Inc. and a longtime friend of Mr. Silverstein's, described him as an "extraordinary combination of optimism and total shrewdness." He was not among the leading candidates to acquire the trade center until very late, when Vornado, a larger firm that bid higher, pulled out, making room for Mr. Silverstein to achieve his "crowning glory" and win a niche in the chronicles of New York real estate. Its destruction made him a sad footnote in the nation's history. 
But at 70, Mr. Silverstein wants to play a leading role in the city's future. "I simply decided to dedicate the next five years of my life to this," he said. He added a cautionary message to local and national officials, many of whom have already hinted that the reconstruction effort needed in downtown Manhattan is far too vast and complex for any one developer: "Given good health and cooperation from the federal and city government, the governors of New Jersey, New York, the Port Authority, we're going to rebuild this thing." 
Observing him as he lays the groundwork for what he described as a patriotic mission is a little like staring at an Escher print; in one blink, his persona is suffused in optimism, in another, shrewdness dominates. Some in government, troubled by his haste, see mainly the latter. "It is still early to talk about this in terms of real estate," one city official said. "Larry needs to be careful not to slide from civic pride to crass personal interests." 
Mr. Silverstein has attended memorial services and fund-raisers, and he has also met with his lawyers, advisers and government officials. Last week, he hired the prominent architect David Childs of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill. New York officials went to Washington to meet with the New York congressional delegation to press for more federal aid. So did Mr. Silverstein, in meetings yesterday with Representative Charles B. Rangel and others. Mr. Silverstein sought federal guarantees for construction loans and protection from lawsuits brought by the victims or their families, according to a government aide who attended the meeting. 
Mr. Silverstein, who resembles a thin Arthur Godfrey, has a bouncy, avuncular manner in person that barely slows when he talks about the attack. He lost four employees and many friends and colleagues, and he steers the conversation away from death, lifting his arm at one point to ward off memories like bats. Instead, he focused on the few bright spots, speaking, for example, of watching rescuers go down into the tunnels below the twin towers and 7 World Trade Center, which he built and which was also destroyed. "They were taking one hell of a risk, if you'll excuse my language," he said. "It is so staggering to see how Americans will help each other in a time of crisis." 
The developer first heard about the news when his associate, Geoffrey P. Wharton, called him on his cellphone from the site, saying "something really bad is happening." Mr. Wharton had just reached the lobby from a breakfast meeting at Windows on the World when the plane hit the tower. Badly shaken, Mr. Wharton rode a squad car back to the company's headquarters on Fifth Avenue and 43rd Street, reaching it in time to watch on television alongside the proud new leaseholder as the two towers collapsed. 
"He was shocked, like everybody, but this was so personal, it just knocked the wind out of him," said Lisa Silverstein, the developer's daughter and a vice president in the company.
She said that he rallied quickly, but that something had changed. "This took a toll mentally and physically," she said. "He is still off-kilter. He usually bounces through the door like Tigger, then whoosh. And it was gone." 
Born in Washington Heights, Mr. Silverstein learned the real estate business working for his father Harry, a smalltime broker, while attending Brooklyn Law School at night. He started his own business in the 1950's, and rose to prominence and real wealth in the early 80's, buying a yacht, chairing the real estate board, and creating the real estate institute at N.Y.U.
In 1981, his optimism reached a peak: he began building 7 World Trade Center before signing up a single tenant. The much-celebrated agreement by Drexel Burnham Lambert Inc. to rent space in the tower fell apart at the last minute when the Ivan Boesky scandal erupted. Mr. Silverstein eventually found another brokerage firm, Salomon Brothers, to lease the space, but lost profit when he had to refit the space to accommodate the new tenants. 
By 1998, he was buying major buildings again, and also preparing his move on the World Trade Center. He seems anxious to soothe the sensitivities of the Port Authority, which lost dozens of employees, including its executive director, Neil Levin. 
"In no way is this a unilateral act," he said, saying he would seek cooperation of all agencies and authorities involved. 
Mr. Silverstein said that he was entitled to $3.6 billion in insurance to cover the losses in each terrorist attack, and that since there were two, he was counting on $7.2 billion. He acknowledged that the insurance companies disagreed with his theory, but added, "they are showing every sign of acting like statesmen." 
P.J. Crowley, vice president of the Insurance Information Institute, an industry education group, said: "The issues are extraordinarily complex in this unprecedented event. This is a matter that will take months, if not years, to work through."
Mr. Silverstein prefers to cast the catastrophe as a low moment in a continuous cycle. "I've been through tough times in the 1960's, and in the 70's and the 1990's, and here we are in 2001," he said. "We can get through this too."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Larry A. Silverstein says he is obligated. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CITIES (71%); INSURANCE (68%); INTERVIEWS (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (65%); HISTORY (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



151 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 136 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED 

 BODY:
 Opium and Afghan Rebels
The United Nations says that most opium grown in Afghanistan this year was in areas controlled by a rebel group opposed to the ruling Taliban and now supported by the United States. PAGE B5

States Weigh Defense Plans
Governors, legislators and local officials in virtually every state are considering proposals to fight terrorism in a nationwide brainstorming session on local defense. PAGE B8

Efforts to Revive Economy
The Bush administration proposed measures to help people who lost jobs after the terrorist attacks, and negotiated with Congress on efforts to revive the economy. PAGE B1

The Optimistic Leaseholder
Larry A. Silverstein, a real estate developer who acquired a 99-year lease on the World Trade Center in July, is making plans and hiring architects to rebuild it. PAGE B1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (91%); TALIBAN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (85%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (85%); REAL ESTATE (84%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRORISM (70%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



152 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Trade-Off by Environmentalists on Rebuilding; 
Looser Rules for Manhattan Are Backed to Avoid a Bigger Threat: Sprawl

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Corporate leaders and politicians who argue that New York City must rebuild Lower Manhattan as quickly as possible -- even if it means sidestepping or streamlining some environmental protection rules -- are getting support for their position from what might seem an unlikely quarter: environmentalists.
 Leaders at some major environmental groups in the region said that a rapid rebuilding in Manhattan had become a paramount objective for them partly out of concern for the city's long-term economic health and also because the alternative could have grim implications for the region: a wave of sprawled office development from New Jersey to Long Island as displaced corporations build permanent new space in the suburbs. 
 If that happened, the environmentalists said, the overall environment in the nation's most densely congested urban corridor could sharply deteriorate in the decades to come, with worsened air quality because of increased dependence on automobile travel, longer trips to work and a loss of open space.
"The No. 1 environmental concern is that the center holds -- all flows from that," said Eric A. Goldstein, a senior lawyer at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a Manhattan-based conservation group. "If the question is spreading out or retaining a central core for the region, the environmental community can be expected to come down in favor of a strong central city." 
Already, three weeks after the attacks, dozens of displaced companies have made long-term plans to relocate outside Lower Manhattan -- especially to Midtown and New Jersey.
Mr. Goldstein and other environmental leaders say that while hardly anyone suggests giving up all environmental oversight on downtown development, the point seems almost universally shared that rebuilding the World Trade Center site will require finding a new balance between the old black-or-white advocacy for the environment and the broader needs of a city and region that has been thrown into deep stress by the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11.
If there were no concerns about a sudden surge in suburban development, the environmentalists said, lawyers and community leaders would already be focusing on the plans for downtown, poring over the fine print about things like building heights and the resulting blockage of sunlight to nearby areas.
They would be urging studies on the air pollution impact of truck and vehicle traffic involved in the removal of debris and the construction of new offices. They would want input on the proposed mix of residential and commercial tenants in any new vision of downtown and on the question of open space and public access. Lawsuits, investigative exposes and public hearings -- the tools of the environmental trade -- would be at the ready or already deployed.
But the disaster at the World Trade Center created a new measure of environmental impact -- no longer confined to just one neighborhood or even one city. The wave of disruption and loss that rippled out when the towers fell -- thousands of lives lost and 15 million square feet of office space destroyed or made unusable -- affected families and businesses, as well as patterns of life, travel, work and play in the city and across the region.
So, too, environmentalists say, will the rebuilding -- and the missteps that could result from delay or errors in judgment -- affect the entire region. Looking at the fine print is no longer enough.
"Our greatest fear is that people will use this as an excuse to pave over more of the natural world," said Jeff Jones, the communications director for Environmental Advocates, an Albany-based conservation group. 
Mr. Jones said his organization and many other smaller ones it worked with would support a streamlined approvals process in Lower Manhattan to protect places like the Meadowlands in northern New Jersey from development. But he said that many groups would also likely seek assurances in return that plans for downtown would include elements of so-called green-building design, like energy-saving technologies and construction techniques.
How the new trade-offs in the region might work as the cleanup and rebuilding move forward is a question that is also being examined closely by urban planners and economists, some of whom have likened the New York metropolitan area to a giant puzzle that has been shaken apart and will now be put back together with new rules.
Sam Staley, director the urban futures program at Reason Public Policy Institute, a nonprofit market-oriented research group based in Los Angeles, said that decentralization out of Manhattan's financial district was a trend long before the terrorist attacks and that an intensification of that trajectory was inevitable now. He said it would be driven by reasons of economics and security.
Some experts like Mr. Goldstein say that troubles around the New York region in recent days -- nightmarish traffic congestion from heightened security measures and altered commuter flow as workers fight their way to temporary offices -- might be glimpses of the future if the wrong choices about rebuilding are made in the months to come.
How exactly the New York region's future will unfold, of course, is a great unknown, in part because no map exists for how to navigate it.
Should money be poured into mass transit improvements for getting people into New York City from the suburbs of Long Island and New Jersey on the assumption that more people will abandon their cars and take the train to avoid traffic nightmares and security checks?
Or would the money be better spent on the assumption that some degree of suburban development will take place? The money could then be concentrated on figuring out how to move people efficiently over what might be new emerging commuter routes.
Some environmental and transportation groups say that, as the city and region struggle through this crisis, some positive psychological hurdles could be cleared that might make for a cleaner city and surrounding areas.
For instance, Transportation Alternatives, a nonprofit group based in Manhattan that advocates environmentally friendly transportation like biking and mass transit, lauded Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's order last week restricting single-occupant cars from entering Manhattan at certain hours of the day.
The group also urged putting tolls on the bridges across the East River and raising the gasoline tax by 20 cents a gallon, with the money devoted to mass-transit improvements.
Other environmental leaders say what unfolds will depend in part on how much the public is included in the decision-making for the redevelopment. If the process feels open and inclusive, said Ned Sullivan, the executive director of Scenic Hudson, an environmental group based in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., the spirit could continue.
"But if they try to shut people out of the process, on the theory that we have to make this happen quickly," he said, "that will result in delays down the road."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Traffic on Route 3 in New Jersey. Environmentalists fear a wave of sprawled office development from New Jersey to Long Island to house displaced corporations. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. D1); Evening rush-hour traffic on Interstate 95 in Stamford, Conn. Environmentalists fear increased auto travel. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)(pg. D10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); SUBURBS (89%); OFFICE & WAREHOUSE CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); RELOCATIONS (75%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (70%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); AIR POLLUTION (68%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); LITIGATION (66%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; AIR POLLUTION; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%)

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



153 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 762 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
N.F.L. Made Wrong Move On Big Game

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON

 BODY:
A FRIEND from Connecticut called from the Upper East Side of Manhattan the other day. She and her husband were in need of a hotel room and did we know of a good one, not too pricey? Within minutes, my wife was online and locating one that rated four stars, five blocks from where our friends were calling, for $99 a night.
 I couldn't believe the rate and others available elsewhere, but it made sense, given the traumatized state of the New York economy. It also made me think: If we could find such a deal within five minutes, how well might the National Football League with a lead time of four months? 
 The New York hotel occupancy rate typically drops to about 55 to 60 percent in January and February from 85 percent in December, according to Cristyne L. Nicholas of NYC & Company, the city's tourism marketing organization. Under the current circumstances, Nicholas said, "We could have handled the Super Bowl pretty easily."
Nicholas, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's former press secretary, attended her first Super Bowl last winter in Tampa, Fla. "It opened my eyes to what this is," she said. "Two weeks of spending, investing in that city. I told my staff it would be wonderful if we could get this game."
She meant any year and especially this year, though just four days after the N.F.L. disclosed that New York was under consideration for a location switch, it announced Wednesday that the Super Bowl would remain in New Orleans, moved back a week to Feb. 3.
It was a wonderful proposal last week by Senator Charles E. Schumer, who said that a New York Super Bowl would be a "symbol of triumph over terrorism." If that sounded like one of my deadline cliches, so be it. Unlike the distant 2012 Olympics, the Super Bowl and all its consumer trimmings would have been a short-term boost to the economy, a way for the N.F.L. to demonstrate that charity can be much more than writing a check and that it does begin at home.
The league, after all, has its headquarters on Park Avenue, a cab ride from ground zero. Its employees were presumably like all other residents and commuters on Sept. 11, in dual states of shock and outrage over the permanent scarring of the New York City psyche and skyline. You can't convince me that the overwhelming majority of N.F.L. people would not have happily sacrificed a run to Bourbon Street for the privilege of bringing the game to Giants Stadium and its itinerant events into Midtown.
Just the other day, the city announced that Delta Airlines, in conjunction with several hotels, was offering bargain packages in an effort to jump-start local tourism. The American Society of Travel Agents switched its November convention from Seville, Spain, to New York. The Audio Engineering Society said it would bring as many as 20,000 members to the city Nov. 30 to Dec. 3 for a convention.
Nicholas said NYC & Company never heard from the N.F.L. By dropping New York into the Super Bowl mix on Sunday, Commissioner Paul Tagliabue was probably paying lip service in deference to Schumer or, much worse, using a disaster site as a bargaining chip in an effort to get New Orleans officials to help facilitate a deal. Coincidentally or not, the pieces soon fell into place, as the National Association of Automobile Dealers accepted a $7.5 million payoff from the N.F.L. to alter its own convention plans.
"Our fans and teams can look forward to a full complement of playoffs and to a great Super Bowl weekend in New Orleans," Tagliabue said. Normalcy was achieved and it would be, after a little arm-twisting and pocket-stuffing, Super Bowl business as usual. America's catered-to-the-wealthy, made-for-TV extravaganza was preserved. We may all look forward to the patriotic pageantry of a climate-controlled halftime show.
Giants Stadium is not weatherproof like the Superdome, one of the truly charmless American sports edifices, but football is generally played without the promise of temperate comfort and many of the sport's epic games have pitted man against the elements. With regard to annual Super Bowl locales, this argument is old and not winnable. Yet for this one occasion, it was worth making.
The game could have been made available to many of the suffering New York City firefighters and cops, who fill the bars and boost the ratings and fit Tagliabue's profile of "our fans" more than the majority of any Super Bowl crowd. Tagliabue said New York presented "security and logistical problems," and proceeded to place the game into the madness of Mardis Gras. He had an opportunity to do something bold and beautiful, and he blew it.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Tagliabue (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (74%); SPORTS (74%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); TOURISM (69%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (68%); TERRORISM (63%); OLYMPICS (62%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (56%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (56%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (56%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%) SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS; 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ANDALUSIA, SPAIN (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



154 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Bank of England Makes Cut Of Quarter-Point in Key Rate 

BYLINE:  By SUZANNE KAPNER 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
The Bank of England cut its benchmark lending rate by a quarter of a point today, to 4.5 percent, saying that it was worried that the terrorist attacks in the United States would send ripples through the British economy in the form of reduced spending and consumer confidence.
 With the reduction, the sixth this year, British interest rates are now at the lowest they have been since January 1964. The move comes a day after the United States Federal reserve trimmed interest rates by half a percentage point. The European Central Bank, which meets next Thursday, is also expected to reduce rates, economists said. 
 "It's all part of a concerted effort to pump liquidity into the financial system," after the Sept. 11 attacks, said David Donnelly, who runs Gordon House Asset Management, a hedge fund in London.
Investors welcomed the decision, which was expected. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading shares rose 2.75 percent to 5,016.20 -- its first close above 5,000 since Sept. 10.
Recently released economic data show the world economy was slumping even more than some economists and central bankers had thought, a wrinkle that entered into the monetary policy committee's decision to cut rates today.
"It now appears that, even before the terrorist attacks, the prospects for global activity were somewhat weaker than projected," the bank said in a statement. "The weaker world outlook and increased uncertainty have set back U.K. business and consumer confidence, and may, for a time, restrain business and household spending."
Economists say they expect Britain to fare better than the economies of the United States and the rest of Europe, pointing to recently revised data that show strong domestic demand. British consumers earned and saved more than economists originally predicted in the first half of the year; the unemployment rate continues to fall, and the housing market remains robust. Consumer confidence, while it has fallen from its highs of July, has dropped less sharply than the confidence of American consumers.
"The effects of the terrorist attacks so far seem to have been felt a little less strongly in the U.K. than in the U.S. or in Europe," said Robert Jukes, an economist with Credit Suisse First Boston.
In part, that is because Britain has coupled prompt interest rate reductions with increased tax cuts and public spending packages, providing a broad stimulus for domestic demand, said Michael Saunders, an economist with Schroder Salomon Smith Barney.
The manufacturing sector is technically in a recession, having contracted for two consecutive quarters, but it accounts for only a fifth of the gross domestic product. Services make up the balance and they have been growing, economists said.
But the British economy has also rising inflation. That could hinder further interest rate reductions, economists said.
"We are nearing the end of the rate cut cycle," Mr. Saunders said, although he held out the possibility of further reductions if the world economy continues to weaken. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); INFLATION (77%); HIJACKING (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); BONDS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); AIRLINES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; FINANCES; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCIAL TIMES INDEX (LONDON STOCK INDICATOR) 

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (90%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (71%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (69%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (57%)

TICKER: CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (90%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%)

PERSON: ;KAPNER, SUZANNE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); EUROPE (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) GREAT BRITAIN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



155 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: Bucking Government Bailouts 

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
As governments across Europe rush to deliver emergency aid to an aviation industry on its knees, one airline's chief executive is shouting "Not so fast!" as loudly as he can.
 Michael O'Leary is every inch a maverick, sporting blue jeans and an open-neck designer shirt in his Dublin office and quaffing coffee from foam company-canteen cups during a recent interview that he peppered with earthy language. And in these days of economic retreat after the Sept. 11 terror attacks, he smells opportunity for his company, Ryanair, Europe's biggest low-cost, no-frills airline. 
 Like its model, Southwest Airlines of Texas, Ryanair has thrived by cutting both fares and operating costs to the bone. Beyond dispensing with free peanuts and giveaway magazines, Ryanair says it will not even absorb some airport charges for disabled people needing assistance to reach its planes, as other carriers usually do. 
That approach may not foster a warm and fuzzy public image, but it has done the airline's performance no harm. Ryanair posted sharply higher profits for the fiscal year ended in March. And as the economic slowdown became apparent over the summer and full-service competitors like British Airways began laying off workers, Ryanair and other discount carriers continued to report growth.
Ryanair's stock is counted among the hottest on the Dublin stock exchange, and its total market capitalization recently overtook that of British Airways.
The deep slump in passenger traffic after Sept. 11 turned the cracks in the market into yawning chasms that threatened to swallow up full-service "flag carriers" in many nations. Swissair and Sabena fell into different forms of bankruptcy protection this week, and the Swiss and Belgian governments bailed them out with emergency loans. Other carriers further from the brink got loan guarantees or help with insurance and security costs from governments.
All of which has Ryanair spitting mad. As Mr. O'Leary sees it, the full-fare carriers' troubles vindicate his business model. Breaking ranks with the rest of the airline industry, Ryanair has urged European Union officials repeatedly to block state subsidies to airlines, however financially troubled they may be. And today, Ryanair said it would challenge the Belgian government's aid to Sabena in court.
"We should complain, because I don't see why we should be forced to compete with someone who is getting subsidies," Mr. O'Leary said today at a news conference in Brussels.
The strains in airlines like British Airways and Swissair, which responded to slowing traffic by concentrating on premium-fare customers, were apparent before Sept. 11. "You are seeing people trading down from business class to economy and from full-service airlines to low-cost airlines," said Jonathan Wober, transportation analyst at Deutsche Bank in London. If the United States is any guide, analysts said, the bottom of the market, where Ryanair and EasyJet compete simply to pack planes at low cost, is where the growth is. 
Nowhere is the scramble for business more evident than on routes between Ireland and Scotland. When Go, a low-cost carrier that British Airways sold last June, announced plans for flights between Dublin, Ryanair's home base, and Scotland, Ryanair began a price war, and one-way tickets can now be had for as little as $14, including airport taxes.
"This is a skirmish on one of our 55 routes," Mr. O'Leary said dismissively. "Does it mean Go will pull out? No. But it'll mean they lose money every time they fly." Ryanair is counting on its greater financial reserves to help it outlast Go on the route.
Such battles break out because, as low-cost airlines look to what they all assume will be a growth market, "there's a bit of a race to gain critical mass," he said.
Mr. O'Leary, 41, has been running Ryanair for more than 10 years, casting himself as the iconoclastic underdog tilting at the stodgy formerly state-owned flag carriers. In some ways, history and technology are on his side.
The end of the cold war freed up former military bases for use by commercial carriers, like Frankfurt-Hahn in Germany, which is now used by Ryanair. The Internet offered low-cost airlines a cheap way to book passengers that bypasses travel agents and even call centers. Ryanair says it now takes 75 percent of its bookings on line; for Easyjet, the figure is 90 percent.
And, most of all, deregulation of European Union skies in 1997 opened up a virtually limitless prospect of flights, especially to provincial airports hungry for connections as prosperity spread to regional cities across Europe. Competing in the low-cost market with Ryanair, EasyJet and Go are two more carriers -- Buzz, a KLM Royal Dutch Airlines subsidiary, and the Brussels-based Virgin Express of Richard Branson-- but most analysts reckon the real fight is between the top two, Ryanair and Easyjet.
Ryanair has its own particularly defiant overlay, insisting on a pugnacious, underdog image even as it dominates the low-cost market. Its advertizing is so provocative that it has raised hackles. One ad depicting Pope John Paul II incensed some Catholics. An ad promoting new flights to an airport near Brussels used a famous Belgian statue of a small boy urinating to suggest that passengers might be fed up with Sabena's high fares; Sabena sued.
Because Ryanair flies to secondary airports to save costs, questions have been raised about how it advertises its destinations. Its flights to "Paris" land at Beauvais, 45 miles north of the French capital. Ryanair's "Brussels South" is Charleroi, 35 miles away. Frankfurt-Hahn is 50 miles from Frankfurt.
So what, Mr. O'Leary says. "It's not as if J.F.K. was in Central Park or Heathrow was in Pall Mall," he said. At the secondary airports, he added, lines are shorter, delays are much rarer and planes can be turned around faster -- so Ryanair can offer more frequent and convenient service as well as lower fares.
Choice of airports is one of the main differences between Ryanair and Easyjet, which flies into more expensive airports like Geneva and London Gatwick. And it is another example of Mr. O'Leary's penchant for casting aside industry wisdom. 
"I don't give a toss where people want to go," he said in the interview. "I'm in the business of creating a market for people to go where they never have heard of. What we do is stimulate huge demand, and then capture it."
At his Brussels news conference today, Mr. O'Leary said Ryanair was still on track to increase its net income by 26 percent this year, to $121 million, despite the fallout from the terror attacks of Sept. 11.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (70%); TERRORISM (70%); AIRPORT OPERATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (65%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES 

COMPANY: RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: RYANAIR PLC 

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (92%); RYA (LSE) (92%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); DEUT (JSE) (50%); DBK (FRA) (50%); DBK (BIT) (50%); DBETN (JSE) (50%); DBA (ASX) (50%); DB (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (50%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN; O'LEARY, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%) EUROPE (94%); BELGIUM (93%); IRELAND (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) IRELAND; EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



156 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
The Microsoft Conundrum

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Judge Colleen Kollar-Kotelly invoked both national purpose and practical reason last Friday as she ordered the two sides in the Microsoft antitrust case to return to the negotiating table one last time. The "recent tragic events," she said, lent an added urgency to resolving the issue, given its importance to the national economy. A settlement can surely be reached "if everybody is reasonable" and "acts in good faith," the judge declared.
 Those are fine sentiments, but the two sides still see the case so differently. Judge Kollar-Kotelly, of the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, acknowledged that problem when she thanked Microsoft and the Justice Department, joined by 18 states, for cooperating to file a joint status report. "You didn't agree on a lot," she said, "but it was joint." 
 Negotiations started this week in Washington, under a deadline of Nov. 2. But the obstacles to a settlement loom large, and both sides have reasons to resist.
Although the Justice Department announced last month that it would no longer seek a breakup of Microsoft or pursue the claim that the company's bundling of its Internet browser with its Windows operating system was illegal, it is seeking restrictions that Microsoft has refused to accept in the past.
The Justice Department has said that it will pursue conduct restrictions based on the Federal District Court's order last year. Among other things, that decision ordered Microsoft to openly share technical information about Windows with other software companies; to offer personal computer makers the option of unbundled versions of Windows, without an Internet browser or other add-ons; and to sell Windows to all PC makers at the same price, though it could offer volume discounts.
The forced disclosure of technical information and the requirement for an unbundled version of Windows, with a slimmer price tag, are the two things Microsoft has most strenuously opposed. "That's where the action is here," said a former government official who was involved in the three previous rounds of settlement talks.
Microsoft is still resisting. In court last Friday, Dan Webb, a Microsoft trial lawyer, complained to Judge Kollar-Kotelly about the provision on sharing of information. That sanction, Mr. Webb said, would "require Microsoft to literally turn over its intellectual property" and would be "devastating to Microsoft."
The legal road map for remedies in the case -- through settlement or court hearings -- is the most recent ruling, the appeals court decision of June 28. But the two sides have very different interpretations of the implications of that ruling, which found that Microsoft was a monopolist that repeatedly violated antitrust laws.
The appeals court decision also scaled back parts of the District Court's legal findings against Microsoft and strongly suggested that the company should not be split in two, as the lower court had ordered.
Though dropping the effort to break up Microsoft, Charles A. James, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, said he would still seek other remedies, modeled after the restrictions on the company's behavior included in the district court's order of June 2000 -- intended, at the time, as interim steps until a breakup was complete.
The Justice Department presented the move as a pragmatic response to the appeals court decision, a prudent tactical retreat. But by declaring that it would seek sanctions fashioned after the conduct remedies in the June 2000 order, the department seemed to signal that it still wanted to place some tough restrictions on Microsoft's corporate behavior.
Judge Kollar-Kotelly suggested that the government would have to determine what sanctions in the June 2000 judgment to pursue and "which portions are unsupported following the appellate court's narrowing of liability." 
The Microsoft camp reads the appeals court ruling fairly narrowly. George L. Priest, a Yale law professor and a consultant to Microsoft who is not involved in the settlement talks, said: "I don't think information disclosure should be on the table, and since the government has dropped the tying claim, what you have left is mostly getting rid of some of Microsoft's contract restrictions with PC manufacturers."
The federal government and the states read the appeals court ruling, and its implications, quite differently. The bundling, or tying, issue illustrates the point. In its ruling, the appeals court handled the subject delicately. The judiciary, it said, should generally not be meddling in product-design decisions, and it noted the often significant gains in efficiency and convenience from integrating products.
But in the monopoly maintenance section of its ruling, the appeals court found that two aspects of Microsoft integration of its browser into Windows did violate the law. At one point in the ruling, the court stated, "Obviously, we do not find that Microsoft's integration is welfare-enhancing or that it should be absolved of tying liability."
The court essentially said that adding features to a monopoly product, like Windows, was not illegal on its face. But the way it is done -- the intent of the bundling decision and its effect on competition -- can make it an antitrust problem. Microsoft did not get a free pass on tying from the court, and it is certain to be an issue in the settlement talks.
"Bundling is going to be the sticking point," said David Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. "What's in and what's out. That's been the big issue going back to 1995."
With Windows XP, the new operating system that goes on sale later this month, Microsoft is aggressively pursuing its bundling strategy. The new system tightly integrates software for online shopping, playing music and video distributed over the Internet, personal identification and digital photography.
Microsoft has been investigated by the government for more than a decade. And it was sued in the landmark antitrust case. Yet its business practices, it seems, have changed little, if at all. Critics question whether the company has any incentive to settle now instead of letting further hearings and appeals run their course.
"Microsoft has lost the legal battles, but it is winning the war of attrition in the industry, stifling competition," said Ken Wasch, president of the Software and Information Industry, a trade group.
The incentives for the government to settle are not necessarily clear, either. Mr. James, the head of the Justice Department's antitrust division, inherited a suit that the previous administration had won. If he appears to give up too much in a settlement, he will be accused of caving in to Microsoft.
"The safe course for James is to just let the court figure out the remedy," said Stephen Houck, the former lead counsel for the state of New York in the case.
Another consideration in the settlement equation is how the political atmosphere might be changed as a result of the Sept. 11 attacks on New York and Washington. "I would think the heat is very much off James now," said Mr. Priest of the Yale law school. "Microsoft is no longer the hot issue it was. The Justice Department has more important things to deal with." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); APPEALS COURTS (75%); LAWYERS (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); COMPUTER MAKERS (70%); APPEALS (60%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); COMPUTER SOFTWARE; STATES (US); SUITS AND LITIGATION 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (92%); US DISTRICT COURT FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA (57%) MICROSOFT CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



157 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 688 words

HEADLINE: Big Loss at Nissan Seems to Undercut U.A.W. Objectives 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM 

 BODY:
The United Auto Workers thought that the Nissan workers in Smyrna, Tenn., would be the ones to finally unionize a foreign automaker's plant and provide a crucial first step in turning the U.A.W.'s fortunes around.
 Instead, the union was dealt a bitter defeat on Wednesday in a battle it had expected to win, or at least closely contest. The margin of defeat has surprised the auto industry and labor unions alike. Nissan employees rejected U.A.W. representation by a 2-to-1 vote, no better than in the union's failed attempt to organize the same plant in 1989. 
 "I thought it was going to be a lot closer," said Bob King, the U.A.W. vice president for organizing and the leader of the Smyrna campaign.
The defeat makes it less likely that the U.A.W. can resolve one of its greatest challenges before its president, Stephen P. Yokich, retires next year. Foreign automakers are the growth industry within the American automotive business, and without recruiting any of their workers, the U.A.W.'s rolls, concentrated at General Motors, the Ford Motor Company and the Chrysler Group, are expected to continue to shrink. 
The union has never been able to organize a plant operated solely by a foreign automaker, though it has organized joint ventures. It was unsuccessful last year in an attempt to organize a Mercedes factory in Alabama, even though Mercedes and Chrysler are now both units of DaimlerChrysler of Germany.
While the presence of companies like Toyota and Honda has spread in the United States, the Big Three have cut jobs as business declined. As a result, U.A.W. membership fell to about 700,000 last year from a peak of 1.5 million some two decades ago. 
"It's a big defeat," said Sean P. McAlinden, director of the economics and business group at the Center for Automotive Research, an independent research firm in Ann Arbor, Mich. Mr. McAlinden consulted for the U.A.W. on the Smyrna vote. 
"It's bad for the union for two reasons," he said. "The only growth area in the auto industry in the United States in the next two to four years is the international sector. The second reason is that Nissan didn't make any significant economic promises to fend the union off, and the union still won." 
Part of the problem, Mr. King of the U.A.W. said, was that the union tried a new approach this time, after its failed vote more than a decade ago and attempts it abandoned in 1997 and 2000. Usually, the U.A.W. tries to recruit supportive workers on every work line and shift to campaign among fellow employees. This time, it used less inside support and relied more on phone banks, home visits and an Internet campaign. 
Mr. King said it was very difficult to compete when employers had a captive audience they can put pressure on at the workplace as well as obliquely threaten to move work overseas. But he said he would not repeat his new methods again. "It's my loss," Mr. King said. "I take responsibility for it."
Steve Babson, the labor program specialist at Wayne State University in Detroit, said a combination of factors was working against the U.A.W. in Smyrna. "It's a Southern environment with less of a union culture," he said. "It's a growing company that can promise opportunities for advancement. There's the carrot."
"The stick," he said, included "threats of disinvestments, threats articulated in one-on-one meetings and punitive disincentives for supporting the union."
But the U.A.W. also has lessons to learn, he said. "It appears the union presence inside the plant was not what you'd want to see."
The defeat means that Detroit's Big Three will remain at a competitive disadvantage because of the better benefits and more complicated workplace rules in place for the unionized work forces there. The U.A.W. lays out on its Web site the thousands of dollars in differences between the annual pension benefits its workers and Nissan workers stand to make.
An even bigger problem for the Big Three has been the greater number of retirees they support compared with the newer American units of foreign automakers. And there is still the Big Three's challenge of making cars that more Americans want to buy. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The U.A.W.'s vice president for organizing, Bob King, in Smyrna, Tenn., on Wednesday after the effort to represent Nissan workers failed. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); LABOR UNIONS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (91%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%) AUTOMOBILES; LABOR; ORGANIZED LABOR 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (91%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (91%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (94%) UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; NISSAN MOTOR CO; GENERAL MOTORS CORP; FORD MOTOR CO; DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (91%); F (NYSE) (91%); 7201 (TSE) (91%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (91%)

PERSON: HAKIM, DANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%) SMYRNA (TENN)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



158 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 720 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS; 
Technology Shares Gain as the Broader Market Retreats

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY

 BODY:
Technology stocks rose for the third consecutive session yesterday after Dell Computer issued a reassuring earnings outlook, but they closed well off their highs.
 The broader market, meanwhile, retreated from its early gains and ended with some losses. 
 "It's the tug of war here between the market seemingly oversold on the short run and the cloudy outlook on the economic front," said John Forelli, senior vice president and portfolio manager at Independence Investment L.L.C. "Investors just have to be cautious. They're going to like companies reaffirming guidance in this environment, but at the same time they'll have to realize that there's still no earnings growth in the market." 
The technology-heavy Nasdaq composite index gained 16.50 points, or 1 percent, to 1,597.31. The Nasdaq surged nearly 6 percent on Wednesday.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 62.90 points, or 0.7 percent, to 9,060.88. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index lost 2.65 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,069.63.
Dell rose $1.68, to $22.32, after it said it expected to meet its previously announced earnings and sales forecasts for the third quarter. Company officials said the company's financial and strategic position was "better than ever" despite the weak economic environment.
Dell's announcement was similar to one made by Cisco Systems on Wednesday, and it offered Wall Street a bit of hope for the economy, which has deteriorated since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11.
"It's hard to envision a situation where PC demand is weak and Dell does well," said David G. Dietze, president and chief investment officer at Point View Financial Services. "Investors are going to bet that if this is the largest PC maker by market share, that probably says something about the health of the sector. There's a whole other series of companies that are probably going to experience good results."
Other computer makers drew strength from Dell. Compaq Computer was up 20 cents, to $8.85, and Gateway rose 15 cents, to $4.85. After the market closed, Gateway said that it would post a wider-than-anticipated third-quarter loss but that it expected to return to profitability in the fourth quarter.
Software makers moved higher as well. PeopleSoft rose $1.47, to $25.15; Veritas climbed $1.12, to $24.61; and Siebel Systems advanced $1.20, to $18.81.
Semiconductor stocks also posted gains. Intel rose 32 cents, to $21.55; Linear Technology increased $2.76, to $36.83; and Advanced Micro Devices rose 54 cents, to $9. 
The Philadelphia Stock Exchange's semiconductor stock index rose 16.73 points, or 4.3 percent, to 405.54.
Shares of network equipment makers continued to rise one day after Cisco Systems said it was comfortable with analysts' estimates for its earnings and sales. Cisco rose 47 cents, to $14.42, while Tellabs rose 91 cents, to $11.42. 
Juniper Networks jumped $1.27, to $13.27, after analysts from Merrill Lynch upgraded the company to "outperform" from "neutral."
Despite the gains in technology stocks, analysts warned investors not to expect an extended rally. Even upbeat reports from bellwethers like Dell and Cisco should be viewed in context, they said.
"It doesn't necessarily mean that the industry is out of the woods," said Howard H. Mackey III, executive vice president and head of the trading desk at M. R. Beal & Company. "And it doesn't really show that Dell or the rest of the industry is really poised to do well over the next several quarters. I think that's why you didn't see follow-though on the part of major institutions today."
Companies continued to pepper the stock market with disappointing earnings warnings as the pre-announcement season continued in full swing.
Among retailers, Stride Rite said it would not meet analysts' estimates for sales for the coming quarter, and the company, a shoemaker, expects to report of loss of 6 to 8 cents a share for the fourth quarter. Shares of Stride Rite fell 28 cents, to $6.70, even though the company reported earnings that met lowered expectations for the third quarter.
Marriott International lost $1.40, to $32.10, after the hotel chain reported an 8 percent decrease in third-quarter earnings and warned that a further decline in its business in the wake of the terrorist attacks could depress its financial results for the fourth quarter and next year.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); ELECTRONICS (79%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); SALES PROJECTIONS (74%); MARKET SIZE (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (67%); TERRORISM (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (62%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (85%); LEE MUNDER CAPITAL GROUP (72%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); INTEL CORP (58%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (51%); NASDAQ OMX PHLX INC (50%)

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (85%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (58%); AMD (NYSE) (51%); AMD (FRA) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (85%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (85%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (72%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (50%) SIC5045 COMPUTERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (69%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



159 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 5; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2221 words

HEADLINE: MOVIE GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy movies and film series playing this weekend in New York City. * denotes a highly recommended film or series. The ratings and running times are in parentheses. An index of reviews of films opening today appears on
Page 12.

Now Playing

* "APOCALYPSE NOW REDUX," starring Martin Sheen, Marlon Brando, Robert Duvall, Dennis Hopper and Laurence Fishburne. Directed by Francis Ford Coppola (R, 196 minutes). Nearly an hour has been added to Mr. Coppola's 1979 Vietnam epic, making the movie richer, stranger and more coherent. It has been rereleased in a stunning new print that showcases Vittorio Storaro's lustrous cinematography and Walter Murch's swirling, precise sound design, as well as Mr. Coppola's grand and sometimes murky vision. The movie's essential seriousness, its brave ambition and the dedication of its cast (now expanded to include Colleen Camp as a Playboy centerfold and Aurore Clement as a French widow) have grown more impressive with time. The current vogue for digitally enhanced computer-generated special effects in live-action movies, for jumpy, gestural editing and for glib pseudo-irony has lulled us into a pixilated, hyperactive slumber. With its grandeur and its horrific, exhilarating magic realism, "Apocalypse Now Redux" jolts us awake (A. O. Scott).

* "THE CLOSET," starring Daniel Auteuil and Gerard Depardieu. Directed by Francis Veber (R, 86 minutes; in French with English subtitles). A classic French farce with a contemporary twist, this very funny comedy spoofs political correctness, homophobia and corporate hypocrisy in its story of a mousy divorced accountant (Mr. Auteuil) who pretends to be gay to save his job in a condom factory. He can't be fired, he reasons correctly, because of corporate fear of a lawsuit for discrimination. Mr. Depardieu is hilariously galumphing as an obsequious homophobe who goes to such ludicrous extremes to demonstrate his tolerance that he drives himself crazy (Stephen Holden).

* "THE DEEP END," starring Tilda Swinton, Goran Visnjic, Jonathan Tucker and Josh Lucas. Written and directed by Scott McGehee and David Siegel (R, 99 minutes). In this tidy and sophisticated film noir, Mr. Lucas plays Darby, who is brazen, magnetic and ruthless and comes to an early end. A woman named Margaret (Ms. Swinton) becomes enmeshed in a murder involving Darby and his latest target: Margaret's 17-year-old son, Beau (Mr. Tucker). Margaret has to handle things on her own, because her husband, a naval officer, is away. She does whatever it takes to keep her boy safe from the clutches of the law and the thugs who were part of Darby's circle. "The Deep End" is fastidious and smart, and Ms. Swinton's fixated intensity isn't ever remote; we're always aware of how deeply she's feeling. Her work is magnificent, an actress burrowing inside herself to play a woman doing the most horrible thing in the world to restore order to her life (Elvis Mitchell).

"DON'T SAY A WORD," starring Michael Douglas, Sean Bean, Brittany Murphy and Jennifer Esposito (R, 110 minutes). In this exhausting, incoherent thriller, Mr. Douglas plays Nathan Conrad, a Manhattan psychiatrist whose young daughter is kidnapped by a sadistic band of jewel thieves. The ransom they demand is the intensive treatment of a mentally ill young woman who has a piece of information they need to recover a ruby they stole 10 years earlier, which the young woman's father, one of their accomplices, snatched away from them. Adding to the confusion is a tough, sexy homicide detective (Ms. Esposito) whose investigation of a series of murders leads her to Dr. Conrad. The movie is as over-elaborate as the criminals' scheme, and similarly doomed, from the outset, to fail (Scott).

"GLITTER," starring Mariah Carey. Directed by Vondie Curtis Hall (PG-13, 145 minutes). This film wants to be a heart-tugging tale of a rags-to-pop-royalty climb made poignant by love and loss. But "Glitter," with Ms. Carey as a talented performer who goes from backup singer to troubled star, is mostly dross, an unintentionally hilarious compendium of time-tested cinematic cliches that illustrate the chasm between hopeful imitation and successful duplication (Lawrence Van Gelder).

"THE GLASS HOUSE," starring Leelee Sobieski, Diane Lane, Stellan Skarsgard, Trevor Morgan and Bruce Dern. Directed by Daniel Sackheim (PG-13, 101 minutes). After their parents are killed in a car accident, Ruby Baker (Ms. Sobieski) and her brother are sent to live with the Glasses, a pair of dysfunctional creeps who also turn out, to no one's surprise but the children's, to be diabolical criminals. The movie might have succeeded as a minor entry in the thriller subgenre that includes "Single White Female" and "The Hand That Rocks the Cradle," but it takes more than a spooky score and horror-movie editing tricks to generate suspense. Mr. Skarsgard, who plays Terry Glass, is so cold and repellent from the start that it's impossible to imagine that anyone would trust him with a pet goldfish, let alone two innocent (and, of course, once it comes to outwitting him, absurdly resourceful) children (Scott).

"HARDBALL," starring Keanu Reeves, Diane Lane and John Hawkes. Directed by Brian Robbins (PG-13, 110 minutes). Daniel Coyle's nonfiction book about a children's baseball team from Chicago has been adapted into a mawkish, cutesy tearjerker. Mr. Reeves, as self-conscious as ever, is its reluctant coach, a down-and-out gambler who redeems himself (and pays off his debts) by leading these latter-day Bad News Bears to victory. The star is forced to deliver inspirational sound bites like the movie's meaningless tag line, "The most important thing in life is showing up" (Holden).

"HEARTS IN ATLANTIS," starring Anthony Hopkins, Anton Yelchin and Hope Davis. Directed by Scott Hicks (PG-13, 101 minutes). One of Stephen King's sappier novels has been pummeled into mush by Mr. Hicks's shallow magazine-glossy depiction of late-1950's America. He is aided by William Goldman's screenplay, which fills the mouth of its persecuted hero with kitschy inanities. That hero, a mysterious Christlike mind-reader who becomes a young boy's surrogate dad, is played by the painfully miscast Mr. Hopkins. Compared to this bunk, even the movie of Mr. King's "Green Mile" seems austere (Holden).

"LIAM," starring Ian Hart, Claire Hackett, Anne Reid and Anthony Borrows. Directed by Stephen Frears (R, 90 minutes). Like many other movies that revisit the turmoil and deprivation of the past century from the perspective of a child, Mr. Frears's new film, about a young boy in 1930's Liverpool, England, walks the delicate boundary between politically inflected realism and costumed sentimentality. At its best, "Liam" explores the effects of unemployment and poverty on Liam's working-class Catholic family with an impressionistic, detached lyricism that captures a boy's puzzlement and curiosity without being too cute about it. But the anecdotal treatment of the family's life gradually and inexorably turns melodramatic, and the violent conclusion seems not to grow out of the lives of the characters, but to be clumsily imposed on them (Scott).

"THE MUSKETEER," starring Catherine Deneuve, Mena Suvari, Stephen Rea, Tim Roth and Justin Chambers. Directed by Peter Hyams (PG-13, 106 minutes). This hopelessly confused and poorly written adaptation of "The Three Musketeers" tries to blend traditional costume adventure with MTV-ready attitude and Hong Kong-style duels. The nervous jump-cut editing chops the action sequences into visual coleslaw, and Mr. Chambers's lead character, D'Artagnan, mumbles like a dazed lobotomy patient. Ms. Deneuve and Mr. Rea, in small roles, pretend they're in another, more coherent movie, but it doesn't help (Holden).

"THE OTHERS," starring Nicole Kidman, Alakina Mann and James Bentley. Written and directed by Alejandro Amenabar (PG-13, 104 minutes). At 29, Mr. Amenabar, a Spanish filmmaker directing his first English-language movie, shows an impressive mastery of the ghost-story form. He sends his camera down shadowy corridors and into cavernous rooms to create a mood of elegant dread. Though a bit too long and too cluttered in the middle, "The Others" is persuasively spooky and even manages to be poignant, thanks to a fierce performance by Ms. Kidman. She plays a woman living with her two children and three peculiar servants in a fog-shrouded house on the island of Jersey in the English Channel (Scott).

* "OUR LADY OF THE ASSASSINS," starring German Jaramillo, Anderson Ballesteros and Juan David Restropo. Directed by Barbet Schroeder (R, 100 minutes; in Spanish, with English subtitles). One description for the ambience of this devastating portrait (filmed in high-definition video) of the corrupt Colombian city of Medellin might be documentary hallucination. With a screenplay adapted by Fernando Vallejo from his novel "La Virgen de los Sicarios," the film gazes into the soul of a burned-out homosexual writer who returns to Medellin (his hometown) after 30 years and finds it transformed into a circle of hell plagued by rampant, casual slaughter. He falls successively in love with two nihilistic street boys, both killers (Holden).

"RAT RACE," starring John Cleese, Whoopi Goldberg, Cuba Gooding Jr., Seth Green and Vince Vieluf. Directed by Jerry Zucker (PG-13, 112 minutes). A wealthy, thrill-addicted casino owner (Mr. Cleese) contrives a race from Nevada to New Mexico with a $2 million prize. The hand-picked, scrambling contestants include a pair of inept, scuffling brothers (Mr. Green and Mr. Vieluf) and a humiliated N.F.L. referee (Mr. Gooding). "Rat Race" crams much antic activity into its meager story line, much of it lifted from other movies. The script is unashamed about stooping into any sewer for laughs. The premise of the contest produces so much anxiety that Mr. Zucker's Zen-like direction can't help making you feel uneasy (Mitchell).

"ROCK STAR," starring Mark Wahlberg, Jennifer Aniston and Jason Flemyng. Directed by Stephen Herek (R, 142 minutes). Based on the true story of a heavy-metal fan who replaced the lead singer in the band he worshiped, this sloppy, charming melange of "This Is Spinal Tap" and "Almost Famous" looks back nostalgically at the big-haired, leather-and-spandex pop metal of the mid-1980's. Mr. Wahlberg, playing a Pittsburgh head banger who unexpectedly lives out his fantasy of sex, drugs and rock 'n' roll, captures both the naivete and the passion of obsessive fandom. Though the story of his transformation from regular guy to metal god and back again is predictable and unconvincing, the movie is full of well-observed details and authentically awful music. It both celebrates and, with gentle knowingness, ridicules the noisy, raucous world of big arena shows, endless touring and androgynous machismo that was 80's metal (Scott).

"TWO CAN PLAY THAT GAME," starring Vivica A. Fox, Morris Chestnut and Anthony Anderson (R, 90 minutes). Written and directed by Mark Brown. In this formulaic, featherweight romantic comedy, Ms. Fox, playing Shante, a young, supersuccessful advertising executive, dispenses tough-minded, good-humored advice on how to keep a man in line. Her resourcefulness is tested when her own man, a lawyer named Keith (Mr. Chestnut), threatens to stray. The two principals are appealing enough, but what little comic spark the film has comes from Mr. Anderson as a colleague of Keith's who becomes his counselor in love and war (Scott).

* "VA SAVOIR," starring Jeanne Balibar, Sergio Castellitto, Marianne Basler, Jacques Bonnaffe and Helene De Fougerolles. Directed by Jacques Rivette (PG-13, 150 minutes; in French, with English subtitles). Mr. Rivette's gracious -- and graceful -- character comedy is droll and lovable, a piece that has earned all of the wrinkles on its brow and around its mouth. What's surprising is that on close examination those crinkles turn out to be smile lines. "Savoir" is a luminous, humid roundelay, as three men and three women tumble in and out of one another's minds, hearts and arms. Everyone is looking for something other than what he or she has. That lusty self-interest is the motor of all great farces. The film's title has been translated as "Who Knows?," and it is a wistful, rueful shrug: an unforgettable gesture as sexy and controlled as Tony Bennett chugging his way through "I Wish I Were in Love Again" (Mitchell).

* "ZOOLANDER," starring Ben Stiller, Owen Wilson and Will Ferrell. Directed by Mr. Stiller (PG-13, 89 minutes). An evil band of international fashion designers want to end the tenure of a new prime minister of Malaysia, who plans to stop the exploitation of child labor. They force their subaltern Mugatu (Mr. Ferrell) to find a supermodel pawn to assassinate the beloved ruler. There's only one blunt instrument suited to this job: the dumb and monumentally earnest Derek Zoolander (Mr. Stiller), the star and unfortunate potential hero of this often unspeakably funny new comedy. "Zoolander" is a gleaming fashion-world tour. It makes sense that the film would have the stylish, high-resolution glaze of a fashion shoot. Mr. Stiller has also crammed the movie with energy; it seems still to be bouncing on the screen long after it has run its 89-minute course (Mitchell).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jeanne Balibar and Sergio Castellitto star in Jacques Rivette's character comedy "Va Savoir." (Moune Jamet/Sony Pictures Classics); Owen Wilson, left, and Ben Stiller in "Zoolander," in which a band of fashion designers hatch a plot. (Melinda Sue Gordon/Paramount Pictures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (78%); FILM GENRES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (73%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (73%); GAYS & LESBIANS (69%); DISCRIMINATION (68%); COMPUTER GRAPHICS (67%); LITIGATION (62%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: FRANCIS FORD COPPOLA (78%); DANIEL AUTEUIL (58%); BEN STILLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



160 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Dell Says It Will Meet Its Forecasts In 3rd Quarter

BYLINE:  By CHRIS GAITHER 

 BODY:
The Dell Computer Corporation, offering investors some cheer in a bleak industry, said yesterday that it remained on track to meet sales and profit forecasts for its fiscal third quarter, as demand for its computers returned more quickly than expected after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks.
 The achievement, hailed by analysts as an affirmation of Dell's build-to-order business model, was highlighted by a warning later in the day from Gateway, the fourth-largest PC vendor. Using early results from its just-ended third quarter, Gateway said it lost more money than expected and would take a charge of as much as $130 million, largely because both PC demand and the value of its investments declined after the attacks. 
 With four weeks left in its quarter, which ends Nov. 2, Dell became the second high-tech bellwether in two days to surprise Wall Street with an announcement that it expects to meet estimates, joining Cisco Systems, the networking company that issued its forecast Wednesday. 
"We still are very hopeful for the quarter and think the business model is humming along better -- operationally and financially -- than it ever has," said Kevin B. Rollins, president and chief operating officer of Dell, the world's largest PC maker.
Dell's announcement, made before the markets opened, lifted its shares by more than 8 percent. Dell stock finished the day $1.64 higher, at $22.32.
"It just shows you that the market has been so beat up that even neutral statements are being received very well," said Kevin A. McCarthy, an analyst who covers Dell for Credit Suisse First Boston.
Dell executives cautioned that the volatile economic and political environment had made all forecasts unusually difficult. They said they would not predict fourth-quarter results until Nov. 15, when they plan to report this quarter's earnings.
The company, based in Austin, Tex., said it stood by its earlier forecast of 15 to 16 cents of profit a share and revenue of $7.2 billion to $7.6 billion.
Dell is one of few vendors still making money on selling PC's. Like its competitors, it has had to reset its expectations as the once-booming PC market is poised to shrink this year for the first time. During the comparable period last year, Dell earned 25 cents a share on revenues of $8.3 billion.
Earlier this week, Moody's Investor Service lowered Dell's rating outlook to stable, from positive, indicating that Moody's does not expect the credit rating to change during the next year. Richard J. Lane, a senior vice president at Moody's, said yesterday that Dell's business model set it apart from its competitors, but that its exposure to a slumping business prompted the downgrade.
James M. Schneider, the chief financial officer at Dell, said business had exceeded his expectations during the first five weeks of the quarter, slowed to a virtual halt in the two days after the terrorist attacks, then quickly began to pick up again.
"We actually were a little surprised at how fast things rebounded," Mr. Schneider said.
Government agencies, relief agencies and corporations in the World Trade Center and damaged buildings nearby bought computers immediately after the attacks, helping to offset a sudden drop in general consumer and corporate demand, the company said.
Michael S. Dell, the chairman and chief executive, said his company won customers from the Hewlett-Packard Company and the Compaq Computer Corporation, which on Sept. 3 announced plans to merge. Mr. Dell called the merger a "profound opportunity" for his business.
After a conference call with Dell executives, analysts expressed surprise at the company's vague optimism going into the fourth quarter and next year. The threat of a recession has caused corporations to delay spending on many large information technology projects, and PC upgrades are often the first to go.
In a report last week, Merrill Lynch widened its projections for the PC industry's decline this year, to 6 percent from 5 percent, and tempered its optimism for 2002.
Engaged in a corporate restructuring and retreat from the European market, Gateway said it expected to report a loss of 14 to 17 cents a share, compared with its previous predictions of a "slight loss," excluding special charges. Gateway, which will report in more detail on Oct. 18, also said it would take a charge of $100 million to $130 million to write down investments, in addition to a $475 million restructuring charge announced in August. 
Theodore W. Waitt, Gateway's chairman and chief executive, said sales only recently returned to the levels they had reached before the terrorist attacks. He added that he was "cautiously optimistic" of a return to profitability in the fourth quarter. 
Earlier this week, Compaq said it expected to report a loss for its just-ended quarter. The terrorist attacks left both Compaq and Gateway with only two anxiety-ridden weeks to complete their sales before the quarter ended, while Dell had six weeks. 
"I think it's a difference of execution," said Kimberly Alexy, an analyst with Prudential Securities. "Dell is winning hands down." 
In regular trading, Gateway shares gained 15 cents, to $4.85. Compaq gained 20 cents, to $8.85.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael S. Dell, Dell Computer's chairman and chief, says his company has been winning customers from Hewlett-Packard and Compaq. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (91%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPUTER MAKERS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (88%); EXECUTIVES (87%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (84%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); RETAILERS (78%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); TERRORISM (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (67%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; FINANCES 

COMPANY: DELL INC (94%); MOODY'S CORP (81%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: GATEWAY INC 

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (94%); MCO (NYSE) (81%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (53%); CS (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (94%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (81%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%) SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES; SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (73%) GAITHER, CHRIS; DELL, MICHAEL S 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (53%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



161 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE AIRLINES; 
Lobbying Down to the Wire As Industry and Politicians Battle Over Aid to Carriers

BYLINE:  By LAURENCE ZUCKERMAN

 BODY:
New rules expected to be released by the Bush administration today will give a four-member panel headed by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, broad powers to dole out $10 billion in federally backed loans to the airline industry. 
 Airline executives, lawmakers and others lobbied fiercely yesterday to influence the final rules governing the loan-guarantee program, which was passed by Congress two weeks ago. 
 An early draft of the rules was distributed on Tuesday to members of the Air Transportation Stabilization Board, which also includes the Treasury secretary, Paul H. O'Neill; the transportation secretary, Norman Y. Mineta; and the comptroller general, David M. Walker. The draft suggested that just 80 percent to 95 percent of each loan be given the guarantees from the government and that the loans be paid back in three to seven years. 
But some airline executives were pressing yesterday for the loans to be fully guaranteed and to stretch for as long as 10 years. 
Executives at the financially weaker carriers have argued that they will not be eligible for the program if the loans are not made available on more generous terms. They have charged that the larger, more financially healthy carriers are using the current crisis to try to reduce competition. 
"There are some people out there who may be trying to use this to impact their competitors," said Ed Faberman, executive director of the Air Carrier Association of America, a group that represents five small airlines. 
Congress gave the airlines $5 billion in cash and the $10 billion in loan guarantees to make up the losses caused by the government's decision to ground all airplanes after the terrorist attacks. The Office of Management and Budget was asked to draft guidelines for the board, which will decide which carriers are to receive the loans. 
The budget office is concerned that if the loans are given too liberally, the program will end up becoming costly to taxpayers. But given that it had only two weeks to write rules and was under heavy pressure from the industry, the budget office appears to have left many hard decisions up to the board. 
That pleased several of the airlines. "We want the maximum flexibility, and we will take our chances in front of the board," one airline lobbyist said yesterday.
The draft rules give the board broad discretion to decide who will receive the loans and what the terms will be. Carriers are required to document that their losses were caused by the events of Sept. 11 and they must provide a large amount of financial detail. No carrier in bankruptcy is eligible for a loan. 
The board is also free to decide how much money an airline can receive and what constitutes a reasonable interest rate. Preference is to be given to guaranteeing loans that include significant collateral, have shorter repayment periods and give the government preference in the event of a bankruptcy. 
The board is also supposed to favor applications that offer the government the opportunity to participate in the airline's future success in the form of stock. That requirement was written into the legislation by Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, a Republican of Illinois, and Senator Jon S. Corzine, a Democrat from New Jersey. 
Both senators sent a letter yesterday to the members of the board urging them to demand an equity stake from any airline that receives a loan. "Hardworking U.S. taxpayers should not be asked to bail out the airline industry with absolutely no strings attached," they wrote. 
Other lawmakers urged Mitch E. Daniels, the director of the budget office, to make sure that the loans were made available to small airlines, that airlines did not cut service to small cities and that they treated their laid-off workers fairly. 
Some industries with an indirect interest in the loans also weighed in. The Boeing Company urged the government to act quickly to help the airlines, which are its customers. Credit card companies wanted the loans to be contingent on a pledge from each airline to honor tickets issued by any other airline that filed for bankruptcy. Otherwise, the credit card companies would have to pay refunds. 
Travelocity and Expedia, two online travel agencies, wanted to preclude any of the loan money from being invested in Orbitz, a rival owned by five major airlines. 
Some airline executives were urging that people with more direct experience in the industry play a larger role in the deliberations.
"If you have never dealt with the airline industry and all of a sudden you have two weeks to set up a $10 billion loan program," Mr. Faberman said, "you may not have an awful lot of opportunity to learn a lot about that industry." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); LOBBYING (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TERRORISM (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: AIR TRANSPORTATION STABILIZATION BOARD (57%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



162 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: REAGAN NATIONAL AIRPORT; 
Shuttles From New York to Washington Return to Sky

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

DATELINE: ARLINGTON, Va., Oct. 4 

 BODY:
As dawn broke this morning and planes lifted off from Ronald Reagan National Airport just outside Washington for the first time since Sept. 11, Captain Neal O'Brien's voice came over the intercom of the Delta shuttle to La Guardia.
 He thanked his 22 passengers scattered among the plane's 156 seats and added this, "On a personal note, I would ask that you assist our flight attendants and support them, as you see the need arise, in the cabin." 
 Most of his passengers seemed to know exactly what he meant as the resumption of airline shuttle service between New York and Washington re-established a vital economic link between the two cities, which share an important psychic link as common targets in the terrorist attacks.
"It was a very well-crafted way to put it," said Rob Bartenstein, 32, an investment banker from Virginia on his first trip back to New York since terrorists killed many of his colleagues in the World Trade Center. 
"It wasn't, 'Help the flight attendant if someone tries to commandeer the airplane,' " Mr. Bartenstein said. "It was just a general plea to be heads up, be aware and participate."
Mr. Bartenstein was among the first passengers to take to the skies today from Reagan National in its first day of operation since it was shuttered as a security precaution immediately after a plane hijacked from Dulles International Airport slammed into the Pentagon. The airport reopened on a limited basis, with just 102 flights, compared with the average of 450 before the attacks. Crews on the ground applauded when planes took off, and passengers applauded when they landed.
Given National's proximity to the White House, the Capitol and the Pentagon, the government has imposed especially tight restrictions on passengers here as a prototype for the nation. Camouflaged members of the Virginia National Guard, packing pistol belts, patrolled the security checkpoints this morning. 
Passengers were not allowed to move from their seats for at least 30 minutes after takeoff and passengers flying into National were not allowed to move 30 minutes before landing. Armed, undercover sky marshals accompanied all flights.
Linda Downs, head of education programs at the National Gallery of Art, arrived at National at 5 a.m. for the first shuttle, leaving at 7, and found the airport deserted. "I was expecting it to be crowded," Ms. Downs said. "It was a little eerie."
Business travelers on the shuttle, one of civilian aviation's legendary passenger routes, were important emissaries in the Washington-New York power corridor and in the national economy, which President Bush has said he hopes the reopening of the airport can help revive.
"The shuttle links the political capital in Washington and the financial capital in New York and the intellectual-high-tech center of Boston," said Rick Weintraub, a spokesman for US Airways, which runs a competing shuttle between the three cities. "Therefore it has an import that goes far beyond simply serving those communities."
The Delta shuttle accounts for about 2.5 percent of that airline's business, but both airlines paid keen attention to their passenger loads today. US Airways' first three shuttles from National to La Guardia carried 79 passengers, then 26, then 45. Delta's carried 22, 13 and 21.
US Airways and Delta are in competition not only with each other but with Amtrak, which has picked up much of the business travel in the last three weeks. Amtrak has added trains in the Northeast corridor and has seen demand rise by thousands of passengers each day. The Acela, which runs between New York and Washington in less than three hours, is often sold out. Today, the Acela that left Washington at 7 a.m. had 215 passengers and had reached its capacity of 304 by the time in reached Wilmington, Del., on its way to New York. The airlines are offering discounts and mileage advantages to try to win these travelers back.
The renewed availability of flying as an option between Washington and New York drew passengers today for two overriding reasons -- patriotism and convenience.
"We actually scheduled our business appointments up here for today so we could take the shuttle," said David Armstrong, 34, Mr. Bartenstein's colleague, noting that the losses in the financial community from the attacks had put their business on hold for the last three weeks. Added his friend, "It was the first thing we felt like we were able to do, apart from give money or give blood, and actually stick our thumb in the eye of the people who did all this in the first place."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gate agents for US Airways received instructions yesterday as Reagan National Airport reopened. (Photographs by Paul Hosefros/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); TERRORISM (78%); AIRLINES (78%); HIJACKING (78%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



163 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1076 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
Bush Proposes Extending Aid To the Jobless

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
With new data showing unemployment rising sharply, President Bush proposed measures today to help people who lost jobs in the wake of the terrorist attacks, and the administration began negotiating in earnest with Congress on broader efforts to revive the flagging economy.
 Mr. Bush proposed extending unemployment insurance for workers in states hardest hit by the economic effects of the attacks and making $3 billion available to states to help them provide additional aid for people who have been laid off. He said he would also encourage states to draw on unspent federal money already allocated to job and welfare programs. 
 "We hear the cries of those who have been laid off," Mr. Bush said. 
He spoke after the Labor Department announced that new claims for state unemployment insurance last week were 528,000, up 71,000 from the previous week, putting them at the highest level in more than nine years. The government is scheduled to release the unemployment rate for September on Friday.
On Capitol Hill, Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill met with the senior Republicans and Democrats on the tax-writing committees in the House and the Senate. People who were briefed on the meeting said Mr. O'Neill indicated that the White House would be flexible in coming to terms on a package of tax cuts to stimulate the economy.
In particular, they said, Mr. O'Neill left open the possibility that the administration would compromise on its proposal to accelerate the income tax rate reductions included in the tax bill Mr. Bush signed into law in June. Under that bill, tax rates came down slightly this year and are scheduled to fall again in 2004 and 2006. The administration has been pushing for making at least part of the planned reductions effective immediately. 
They said Mr. O'Neill discussed the possibility of only speeding up the planned reduction for those in the 28 percent income tax rate, which is paid by about 45 percent of taxpayers, rather than also accelerating the planned reductions for those paying the top rates. Under the tax bill passed this year, the 28 percent rate would eventually fall to 25 percent.
Democrats objected to accelerating the reductions for those in the top income tax rates, which currently extend up to 38.6 percent, saying any tax cuts should be concentrated on low- and middle-income people.
Democrats said Mr. Bush's proposals to help the unemployed were a good first step. But they called for a more aggressive effort to help the unemployed than Mr. Bush proposed. And members of both parties said it was clear that their pledges of bipartisanship would be tested by a continued ideological divide in Congress over how best to pull the nation out of what now appears to be a recession.
A senior official at the Treasury Department, speaking on the condition that he not be identified, said all or most of the $60 billion to $75 billion that Mr. Bush has said should be allocated to steps to stimulate the economy should go to tax cuts. His statement, in a briefing for reporters, seemed intended to quell criticism from conservative Republicans that White House officials were giving in too easily to Democrats as they negotiate the details of the economic recovery plan. 
Democrats said they would still push for a substantial part of the money to go to new spending programs. Democrats in the House drew up a nationwide wish list that included $4 billion for repairs and improved security at federal buildings, $1.5 billion to upgrade mass transit systems and $1.2 billion for school construction and renovation. Those types of programs, Democrats said, would create jobs and encourage people to spend more money.
"You could fashion a good balance that includes both tax cuts and spending," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, "and that's what we ought to be about." 
The top Democrats and Republicans on the House and Senate budget committees said Congress and the administration had to keep in mind that the stimulus package would push the government into deficit this year for the first time since 1997. They said the government should plan to return as quickly as possible to its plan to pay off most of the $3.3 trillion national debt within a decade.
At the same time, interest groups stepped up their efforts to get a piece of the stimulus plan, with groups like textile makers, insurers and small-business owners making a case for why they need help.
Members of both parties suggested that they are likely to include in the economic recovery plan a proposal to give a one-time tax rebate of $300 per person, or $600 per couple, to the more than 30 million working people who did not earn enough money last year to qualify for the rebates sent out this summer as the first installment of this year's tax cut.
The senior Treasury official said the proposal would probably provide an additional payment to people whose income was high enough to receive a portion of this summer's rebate, but not the entire amount. 
The rebate plan would cost about $16 billion to $20 billion, the official said.
Democrats pressed for the business tax cuts to be temporary while Republicans said they should be permanent. But members of both parties said they agreed in general on the need to allow companies to more rapidly write off their investments in new factories and equipment to stimulate new investment.
Mindful of both the economic and political costs of a rise in joblessness, Mr. Bush made helping the unemployed the focus of his public statements on the economy today.
At an appearance at the Labor Department, the president said his plan would extend unemployment insurance payments for an additional 13 weeks beyond the standard 26 weeks in states where the unemployment rate increases by at least 30 percent after Sept. 11. 
It is too early to know how many states will meet the requirement, but New York and Virginia, where the attacks took place, are the most likely candidates. The program would be available for 18 months, and would be paid for entirely by the federal government. The cost would depend on the extent of the rise in unemployment.
Mr. Bush also proposed making $3 billion in emergency grants available to all states to help workers who lose their jobs because of the economic effects of the attacks. 
The money could go to help people maintain their health insurance and receive job training, and could also be used by states to make cash payments to unemployed workers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RECESSION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



164 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: Spending Is the Hard Part 

 BODY:
After a week of jousting, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and New York State's attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, have agreed to share responsibility for coordinating the distribution of nearly $700 million in private charity raised since the World Trade Center disaster on Sept. 11. It is not clear how this will play out in practice, but an inappropriate turf war seems to have been avoided.
 As Mr. Spitzer noted when he volunteered his services last week, spending all this money equitably and efficiently will not be easy. It will be even harder if the people who should be providing guidance cannot get along. There is also no room for petty discord when the universe of direct and indirect victims continues to grow and when each day seems to bring some new challenge to the task of matching resources to needs in an intelligent way. 
 It is becoming increasingly clear that the thorniest problem -- at least as difficult as coordinating the private charities -- involves the relationship between private philanthropy and the big sums of money promised by the federal government. In addition to New York's share of the $20 billion pledged by President Bush -- which will inevitably be swallowed up by the physical costs associated with cleanup and reconstruction -- Congress created an open-ended compensation fund for victims' families. Approved as part of the airline bailout package, the fund would compensate for economic loss, pain and suffering and thus spare the airlines endless lawsuits. The aggregate cost of the program could be an added $15 billion, and the individual awards could range above $1 million for direct victims of the attack -- the nearly 5,400 killed or missing as well as those who were seriously injured. 
This raises an unexpected question for private philanthropy. Given the prospect of large federal settlements for direct victims, should the charities begin thinking about distributing a greater share of their aid to the "indirect" victims -- the people who survived the collapse of the towers but lost their homes, jobs or small businesses, suffered mental trauma or found their lives disrupted in other ways?
The answer is almost surely yes. One of the unfolding truths of the recovery process is that the universe of victims is a great deal larger and more complicated than originally thought. To take one example, there are an estimated 1,500 small retailers below Chambers Street in Lower Manhattan who are now out of business or in serious trouble. They need and deserve assistance. To take a less visible example, the disaster shut down a shelter for battered women. Those women still need a place to go. 
This ever-expanding circle of suffering merely reinforces the need for coordination among the many sources of help. As it happens, private agencies like United Way and big foundations like Carnegie are beginning to talk to one another on a regular basis, but even they agree that some sort of overall guidance would be a good idea. A week ago Mr. Spitzer, whose office oversees private charities, volunteered to serve as a clearinghouse for information among the 140 or so organizations involved in the relief effort and to provide regular briefings on which needs were being met and which were being left unattended. On Monday Mr. Giuliani insisted that he wanted to be coordinator in chief because his agencies had already developed a day-to-day relationship with the victims' families.
At least for now, the two have agreed to work together and play to each other's strengths. That is welcome news. As this tragedy reverberates in unpredictable ways, the task of sorting out who needs help and who can best provide it is going to get harder rather than easier. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (74%); LITIGATION (73%); TERRORISM (72%); BAILOUTS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (72%); DAMAGES (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (70%); AIRLINES (70%); HIJACKING (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); MISSING PERSONS (63%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); EDITORIALS; PHILANTHROPY 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (72%) ;GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); SPITZER, ELIOT L (ATTY GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



165 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs; 
Yes, But What?

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Judging from the foreign press, the most popular world reaction to the terrorist attacks on America has not been outright condemnation, but rather: "Yes, but . . ." Yes, this was terrible, but somehow America deserved it or is responsible for the anger behind it.
 One can only be amazed at the ease with which some people abroad and at campus teach-ins now tell us what motivated the terrorists. Guess what? The terrorists didn't leave an explanatory note. Because their deed was their note: We want to destroy America, starting with its military and financial centers. Which part of that sentence don't people understand? 
 Have you ever seen Osama bin Laden say "I just want to see a smaller Israel in its pre-1967 borders," or "I have no problem with America, it just needs to have a lower cultural and military profile in the Muslim world"? These terrorists aren't out for a new kind of coexistence with us. They are out for our non-existence. 
None of this seems to have seeped into the "Yes, but . . ." crowd, whose most prominent "Yes, but" states: This terrorist act would never have happened if America hadn't been so supportive of Israel. 
My response is, "Yes, but . . . but . . ."
Yes, there is no question, America's support of Israel -- even when Israel builds greedy, provocative settlements in the heart of the Gaza Strip -- has produced understandable Muslim anger. But the argument doesn't end there. America has also taken the lead role in trying to reverse this situation. We know the Sept. 11 attack was being planned a year ago -- exactly when President Clinton was proposing to Yasir Arafat a Palestinian state on roughly 95 percent of the West Bank and East Jerusalem -- with the Israeli settlers uprooted from all but 5 percent. In other words, this terrorism was being planned because America was trying to build Israeli-Palestinian coexistence, not because it wasn't.
Ah, say the "Yes, but" folks, but Arab public opinion has been inflamed by the Arab TV images of Israel suppressing the Palestinian uprising. Yes, at times Israel has used excessive force, and one can understand how that looks to Arab eyes, but Israel has also been responding to Palestinian suicide attacks on Israeli pizza parlors and discos -- which isn't highlighted on Arab TV. 
Moreover, this uprising by the Palestinians was not their only recourse. There was an active U.S.-sponsored diplomatic track, with a deal on the table, which may not have been fully acceptable to Palestinians but was certainly worth building upon and hardly justified suicide-bombing Israeli civilians. The Arab media and leaders now talk as though the Clinton proposal for a Palestinian state never happened. But it did. 
The second "Yes, but" is that the terrorists reflect a protest over Muslim poverty. Yes, poverty can breed desperate people. However, most of the hijackers were middle-class Saudis or Egyptians.
Is it America's fault that the richest ruling family in the world, the Saudis, have citizens who are poor and frustrated? Is it America's fault that Korea had the same per capita income in the 1950's as many Arab states, but Korea has managed its development so much better since that it now dwarfs all Arab economies? Afghanistan is run by a medieval Taliban theocracy that bans women from working or going to school. How could such a place not be poor? And who was the biggest protector of that backward Taliban society? Osama bin Laden and his men.
There is something wrong with Saudi Arabia citing U.S. support for Israel as the root cause for this Islamist terror -- when many Saudi men were among the hijackers, when the Saudi regime has tolerated the harsh Islamist movements that provided ideological guidance for these young men, when Saudi Arabia was the biggest funder of the Taliban, when the Saudi ruling family has alienated some of its most devout subjects to a degree that produced Islamist militancy, and when the Saudi regime -- as The Economist just noted, in an article titled "Saudi Arabia: The Double-Act Wears Thin" -- winked at indirect fund-raising for Mr. bin Laden in the Kingdom as a way of currying favor with its hard-line Islamist critics. 
I don't want to see the Saudi regime destabilized. I'm sure it wants to be part of the solution now. But how about a little candor? YES, America should look deeper into its policies and actions -- BUT, BUT, BUT we're not the only ones who need to look in the mirror. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); BOMBINGS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); MISSING PERSONS (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%); BILL CLINTON (68%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (98%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); SAUDI ARABIA; ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



166 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1533 words

HEADLINE: Sailing Into a Sea of Troubles; 
No Grace Period for New Chief of American Express

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
Everything is so topsy-turvy at the American Express Company these days that some midlevel managers have spacious offices with soothing water views but Kenneth I. Chenault does not.
 Mr. Chenault, the first-year chairman and chief executive of American Express, has been operating from a spare interior office in Jersey City for the last three weeks as he tries to hold together a company that was already plagued by serious financial problems even before Sept. 11. 
 The attack on the World Trade Center left 11 American Express employees dead or missing. It drove Mr. Chenault and 4,000 employees out of the company's headquarters in the World Financial Center, across the street from the destroyed towers, and scattered the company's staff over the suburbs for at least the next few months. It immediately darkened the outlook for a company whose fortunes are inextricably linked to corporate spending on travel and entertainment. 
Few companies have more riding on President Bush's proposal to stimulate the economy with another $75 billion in government spending and tax cuts than American Express. That is why Mr. Chenault was sitting shoulder to shoulder with the president on Wednesday at a gathering of business leaders in lower Manhattan and was chosen to deliver the group's supportive response to the president's plan.
Mr. Chenault praised Mr. Bush's show of leadership since the attack and said, "We will not succumb to this evil."
If any corporate chief had reason to wave a white flag, it might be Mr. Chenault. In his first six months as chairman, he twice had to tell investors that mounting losses in the company's portfolio of junk bonds were chewing up its operating profits. He announced two rounds of layoffs that will eliminate almost 7,000 jobs, or 7 percent of the work force.
Now, this.
On Sept. 17, American Express issued its third earnings warning of the year. The company said it had been on track to meet investors' expectations before the attack, but it could not forecast afterward how far short it would fall.
Its stock fell $9.40, or almost 27 percent, in the first week of trading after the attacks, cutting about $12 billion from the company's market value. In the middle of that decline, Standard & Poor's lowered its outlook on the company's debt rating to negative from stable.
"He's had nothing but trouble since the day he stepped into the job," said Richard Fuld, chairman and chief executive of Lehman Brothers Holdings, an investment bank that was a neighbor of American Express in the World Financial Center and is now a neighbor in Jersey City, across the Hudson River.
But by all accounts, Mr. Chenault has remained rock steady, dealing with the personal losses, refusing to complain about the deteriorating situation of American Express, taking time to listen to employees' commuting nightmares and even doing favors for other companies.
"It's certainly been a challenging year," Mr. Chenault said, leaning on a small table in his temporary office after a grand tour of the not-so-grand quarters American Express's where top executives have retreated. "But I don't feel that I've been put upon."
John O. Utendahl, chairman of Utendahl Capital Partners, said he had detected little change in Mr. Chenault's calm demeanor through all the adversity.
"I saw the same intensity I see all the time," said Mr. Utendahl, who has known Mr. Chenault for 20 years. "There was no break in his voice, no sweat on his brow."
Mr. Chenault, he said, knows that everyone from the lowest-ranking employee to the company's biggest shareholder and its board is monitoring his every move. "They're looking at his eyes, his hands -- whether they shake, whether his knees are weak," Mr. Utendahl said.
Judging by Mr. Chenault's performance as he made the rounds this week of the company's newly leased offices in Parsippany and Short Hills, N.J., those looking for the slightest flinch will have a hard time detecting it. As Mr. Chenault wandered through mazes of freshly scrubbed cubicles and newly painted corridors, he exchanged hugs and handshakes with everybody he encountered. Most greeted him with a casual "Hi, Ken."
It was moving-in day at both buildings, and workers gathered in groups, sharing war stories about their new commutes and getting stress-relieving massages from tables set up in hallways. Mr. Chenault listened patiently in an elevator as one woman described the trip of two and a half hours she had made from her home on Long Island.
Not everyone was complaining. Edward P. Gilligan, who runs the company's corporate services division, said he had driven to Parsippany from his home in Summit in 20 minutes -- counting a stop at Starbucks.
Mr. Gilligan said he was telling employees to expect to be working from the suburban offices for as long as a year but that he would try to arrange for many of them to work from home or occasionally from the office closest to home.
The dislocation of American Express might have been reduced had Mr. Chenault not been so magnanimous. In the scramble for office space before the smoke cleared in the financial district, Mr. Fuld discovered that American Express was trying to sublease the same three floors of a new building on the waterfront in Jersey City that Lehman Brothers wanted. On Sept. 13, Mr. Fuld called Mr. Chenault, who had been grounded in Salt Lake City all week, and pleaded his case.
The space, with floors raised to accommodate lots of wiring, was ideal for Lehman's trading operations, Mr. Fuld was explaining when Mr. Chenault cut him off.
"He said, 'Dick, go no further. I'll stand down,' " recounted Mr. Fuld, whose company was once owned by American Express. "I have always liked Ken, and this just reinforced that feeling. I like the way he has handled a tough situation."
Mr. Chenault was visiting one of his company's offices in Salt Lake City when the attacks occurred. Grounded there for the next two days, he managed the company by hourly conference call.
At first, a few of his lieutenants, including Alfred F. Kelly Jr., who runs the company's charge card business, joined in from the kitchen table in a young employee's apartment in Greenwich Village. Her home was chosen because her husband works for the company and had three phone lines working during the widespread service disruptions.
The calls brimmed with nervous energy but Mr. Chenault, who had set up a command center in Salt Lake City, cut through it by asking a series of direct questions that dealt first with people, an executive who participated in the calls said.
One of his first orders was to have operators at the company's call center in Greensboro, N.C., locate all of the New York employees. Eventually they tracked down everybody except 11 employees who had been working in a client's offices on the 94th floor of 1 World Trade Center.
During an interview in a sedan ferrying him between office buildings, the only time Mr. Chenault averted his gaze and looked out the window was when he was asked about those victims. He blinked twice and said that the company would hold a memorial service for them after their families had received more information.
Despite the dislocation, he said, the company's "business continuation" plans had worked without a hitch. 
"The way I judge a plan is, 'Do you need top management intervention for the plan to go forward?' " he said. Clearly, he was pleased that American Express had not.
Several days later, the operators in Greensboro were assigned to contact all the New York employees again and invite them to an afternoon pep rally at Madison Square Garden on Sept. 20. Mr. Chenault said there were some doubts about whether people were ready to reassemble in Manhattan, but about 4,000 showed up to hear Sheryl Crow sing "God Bless America" and watch Tiger Woods, another American Express endorser, deliver a televised message of support.
"The employees needed to hear from me about how I felt about them and the state of the company," Mr. Chenault said. "It was a way to begin the healing process."
While the company heals, Mr. Chenault must determine how it will cope with its financial distress. He has spent much of his time studying how American Express responded a decade ago when the Persian Gulf war slammed the brakes on air travel, consumer spending -- and the company's charge card billings.
That conflict ended quickly but the company's business did not recover for about a year, said Mr. Chenault, who was running the card business then. Mr. Chenault and his former boss, Harvey Golub, responded by broadening the company's offering to include revolving credit cards to reduce its vulnerability to a crisis in the travel business. Nonetheless, about half of the company's charge card revenue still comes from travel-related services, Michael Hughes, an analyst at Merrill Lynch, said.
"A quick end to the current crisis would make American Express a very attractive stock," he said. "A prolonged battle would not."
Mr. Chenault knows that war plans are beyond his control. So he said he would focus on guiding American Express through another rough period.
"If you're the leader, you've got to feel you're the person where the decisions rest," he said. "This is no time for excuses."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth I. Chenault has dealt with many problems since terrorist attacks left the American Express office in the World Financial Center unusable. (Above, Associated Press; below, Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. C1); Since the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks forced them from the World Financial Center, employees of American Express have been working in several temporary offices like this one in New Jersey, seen on Sept. 14. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. C4) Chart: "Harsh Welcome"Since Kenneth I. Chenault took over as chief executive at American Express in January, the company has faced one problem after another, and the stock has fallen 47 percent. Graph shows American Express stock closes since 2000. Yesterday's close: $28.88Dec. 29, 2000: $54.94 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (87%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); HIJACKING (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); BONDS (75%); MISSING PERSONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); TERRORISM (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (68%); TAX LAW (67%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (63%); PROFIT WARNINGS (63%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%) WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; WORLD FINANCIAL CENTER (NYC); TERRORISM 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (96%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO 

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (96%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (96%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%) SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS; 

PERSON: KENNETH I CHENAULT (94%); RICHARD S FULD (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) ;CHENAULT, KENNETH I; MCGEEHAN, PATRICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



167 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 925 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: CONSERVATIVES; 
Some in G.O.P. Balk at Growing Federal Role

BYLINE:  By ALISON MITCHELL and RICHARD L. BERKE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
Little more than three weeks after the terrorist attacks, some conservative Republicans are pointedly challenging the Bush administration on the scope of the stated campaign against terrorism and its new receptiveness to an expanded federal government.
 The dissension was initially muted as the president moved the nation onto a wartime footing after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks. But in recent days it has started to break out into the open on Capitol Hill. 
 And while most lawmakers had thought the mood of bipartisanship was too good to last, they had expected relations to fray between Republicans and Democrats. Instead, many say, the tensions are most acute right now within the Republican Party. Mr. Bush is facing challenges from the very conservatives who were once his base. 
At one Senate hearing on Wednesday Senator Phil Gramm, Republican of Texas, hotly condemned the administration's approach to economic stimulus, arguing that the White House was sanctioning big spending and giving up too easily on conservative tax-cutting priorities.
"It looks to me as if we're moving toward a package which I'm not going to vote for," Mr. Gramm told Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill.
In an interview today, the senator said, "The whole idea of even trying to balance the budget or controlling spending seems to have been thrown out the window. I can't turn that quickly. I've got whiplash."
At a recent closed-door briefing for House members on the military buildup, Representative Dana Rohrabacher, Republican of California, accused Secretary of State Colin L. Powell of leaving the job undone at the end of the Persian Gulf war, which Mr. Bush's father halted with the Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein still in power. Mr. Powell was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff during the war.
"I confronted him directly on the floor in front of everybody," Mr. Rohrabacher said today. "I didn't say you were the one who stopped us from getting Saddam Hussein. I did draw the analogy that we had not finished the job in Iraq." 
Like Mr. Rohrabacher, many conservatives and neo-conservatives, including some Democrats, argue that Mr. Bush cannot limit a war on terrorism to Osama bin Laden. In a letter to the president circulated by William Kristol, who was chief of staff to Vice President Dan Quayle, several signers, including Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the former United Nations delegate, wrote that killing Mr. bin Laden could not be the only goal of the struggle and endorsed a "determined effort" to oust Mr. Hussein.
Republican officials are careful not to criticize Mr. Bush personally or to question his conduct in responding to the terror attacks. Mr. Gramm blamed the Democrats for pushing new spending programs. And Mr. Rohrabacher said he had faith in Mr. Bush, describing him as "more like Ronald Reagan than his father."
Internal Republican struggles began almost as soon as Mr. Bush promised New York's senators in the week of the attack that an extra $20 billion would be dedicated largely to New York. Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the second-ranking Senate Republican, and Mr. Gramm raised questions that kept negotiations going well into the night.
Now some Republicans, who thought Mr. Bush's election heralded a golden era for conservatives, say they are shocked at how quickly the antigovernment sentiment of the 1990's has shifted. For them it seems like an eon ago that candidate George W. Bush lampooned Al Gore, saying that Mr. Gore trusts the government while he trusts people.
Senator George V. Voinovich, Republican of Ohio, cited concerns in the party over the shape of the economic recovery package and the efforts to give the government responsibility for airline security.
"Some of the things being recommended are New Deal, Great Society-type things that are going to cost an enormous amount of money," Mr. Voinovich said.
Moreover, Congressional Republicans themselves are not seeing eye to eye.
Senator John McCain of Arizona, the ranking Republican on the Commerce Committee, has become a strong proponent of putting the government in charge of airline security. But Representative Bob Barr, Republican of Georgia, has gone from fighting to tone down some of the surveillance proposals in the administration's antiterrorism package to fighting against the idea of federalizing airline security.
"To me as a conservative, I look at a problem and ask, Is this a federal function?" Mr. Barr said. "Faced with the crisis we make the illogical jump that the government is the only one that can do it."
When Transportation Secretary Norman Y. Mineta told Republican leaders at a meeting today that the White House would have to put the government in charge of airline security to win over Democrats, Representatives Dick Armey and Tom DeLay, the second- and third-ranking House leaders, rebelled, Republican aides said.
The White House today made efforts to tamp down the Republican discontent, bringing an array of party leaders to the White House.
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, noted in his daily briefing that the president had said "it's important that people in Congress don't start inventing or designing new systems, newfangled notions."
"He also thinks it would be a mistake if people tried to engage in a whole series of new government programs," Mr. Fleischer said.
Representative Thomas M. Davis III of Virginia, the chairman of the House Republicans' re-election efforts, said he was aware of some of his colleagues' grousing. But Mr. Davis said it was misplaced, adding, "It's not a time to get hard-core partisan."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Bob Barr does not want airline security federalized. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); CONSERVATISM (92%); TERRORISM (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WAR ON TERROR (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); MISCONDUCT (74%); BUDGETS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (72%); DESERT STORM (69%); ARMED FORCES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); PHIL GRAMM (79%); DANA ROHRABACHER (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



168 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: EVIDENCE; 
British Detail bin Laden's Link to U.S. Attacks

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 4 

 BODY:
In the days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks on the United States, Osama bin Laden indicated that he was "about to launch a major attack on America," according to a British government document released today.
 Prime Minister Tony Blair said the evidence detailed in the document left "absolutely no doubt that bin Laden and his network are responsible" for the attacks on New York and the Pentagon. 
 The document says that known associates of Mr. bin Laden named "the date for action as on or around 11 September." Others were warned to return to Afghanistan before their plot unfolded, the document says.
It asserts that one of Mr. bin Laden's most senior associates, who is not named, was the man "responsible for the detailed planning of the attacks," and that at least three hijackers "have already been positively identified as associates of Al Qaeda," Mr. bin Laden's organization. Text, Page B4. 
Some statements were winnowed from intercepted telephone conversations and others surfaced in interrogation sessions in Europe in the frantic days since Sept. 11, intelligence officials said today. Together, they form the keystone of a 16-page document, released on the Internet by the British government and accusing Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda of "responsibility for the terrorist atrocities in the United States."
Mr. Blair read some of the bill of evidence to the British Parliament before the whole document was posted. As America's closest ally, he thus relieved the Bush administration of bearing the sole burden for making the case against the Saudi-born Islamic extremist and his group.
Today, Pakistan became the first significant Muslim ally to declare that it accepted America's case that Mr. bin Laden was to blame for the Sept. 11 attacks. Page B5. 
According to American officials, the Central Intelligence Agency reviewed the evidence outlined in the document, which was the product of American and foreign intelligence-gathering operations. While the document released by the British government includes new bits of evidence, it does not disclose the most highly classified information. Mr. Blair told Parliament that was because people and technical sources would be jeopardized if revealed.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell 12 days ago promised a public accounting of the evidence against Mr. bin Laden. But ever since, objections by the intelligence community over the potential disclosure of sensitive sources prevented any detailed public release of information. 
Earlier this week, Mr. Powell sent cables to United States embassies so that foreign leaders and allied governments could be briefed, but the American public has been waiting for the case against Mr. bin Laden.
An American intelligence official said some of the most sensitive conversations intercepted and pieced together show convincingly that Mr. bin Laden's top lieutenants in Al Qaeda were directly involved. 
"There are indications of clear prior knowledge," the official said. "People in the operation knew details both before and shortly after" the attacks that "couldn't have been known unless you had been involved in the planning of the attack."
In London, a spokesman for Mr. Blair said of contacts with the United States, "We have been in close contact throughout and in advance of publication." He asserted that it was "a U.K. government document that has been put together here."
Mr. Blair, like Mr. Bush, is under pressure from European and Middle Eastern allies to present a persuasive public case of Mr. bin Laden's guilt before launching any military operations against Afghanistan. The British apparently had less trouble skirting classification concerns than their cousins in American intelligence.
The document asserts that "several of the perpetrators" of the bomb attack on the destroyer Cole in Yemen were trained at Mr. bin Laden's camps, and that two commanders of the Cole bombing were also involved in the August 1998 bombings of two American embassies in East Africa.
Mr. bin Laden has been indicted in the United States for the embassy bombings and is suspected of masterminding the attack on the Cole.
One of the three hijackers identified as being associates of Al Qaeda also "has been identified as playing key roles in both the East African embassy attacks and the U.S.S. Cole attack," the document says.
It has been previously reported that one suspected hijacker, Khalid Almihdhar, had met with suspected associates of Mr. bin Laden in Malaysia last year. The C.I.A. later determined that some people at the meeting may have been involved in the Cole attack. 
The document provides a great deal of detail about Mr. bin Laden's connection to a half dozen terrorist attacks on American citizens or armed forces. It asserts that Al Qaeda and Mr. bin Laden "have a close and mutually dependent alliance" with Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime, and its leader Mullah Muhammad Omar.
"They jointly exploit the drugs trade," the document says, and Mr. bin Laden provides financing and fighters for the Taliban militia, which in turn protects his terrorist training camps and the drugs stockpiles that help finance both, it says.
Though it offers no details, the document also asserts that Mr. bin Laden and Al Qaeda "have sought to acquire nuclear and chemical materials for use as terrorist weapons."
Speaking in Parliament, Mr. Blair said, "Our findings have been shared and coordinated with those of our allies, and are clear" on Mr. bin Laden's responsibility.
Laying a basis for possible military action, the document states that ever since Mr. bin Laden returned to Afghanistan in 1996 to ally himself with the Taliban, "the United States government had made it clear to the Taliban regime that Al Qaeda had murdered U.S. citizens, and planned to murder more." 
Mr. Blair said, "Military plans are robust," and identified the enemy as Osama bin Laden and Al Qaeda. "We will act because, for the protection of our people and our way of life, including confidence in our economy, we need to eliminate the threat bin Laden and his terrorism represent," he said.
Attorney General John Ashcroft and others have urged Americans to be vigilant and said they cannot rule out another terrorist attack, particularly if the military action is taken in response to the Sept. 11 assaults.
The language of Mr. bin Laden's incitement to murder and hatred of the United States is knitted throughout the document. 
"The killing of Americans and their civilian and military allies is a religious duty for each and every Muslim to be carried out in whichever country they are found," his February 1998 fatwa, or religious edict, states. 
The British document says that Washington can rely on evidence from earlier terrorist attacks attributed to Mr. bin Laden in preparing a military response. 
In October 1993, for instance, the document states that "operatives of Al Qaeda participated in the attack on U.S. military personnel serving in Somalia" that killed 18 Americans. 
By the end of 1993, Al Qaeda operatives were scouting out the United States embassy in Nairobi, Kenya, for the truck bomb attack executed in 1998 that killed 213 people. A Saudi member of the bombing team, Mohamed Rashed Daoud al-Owali, survived the explosion and fled. 
"After a few days, he called a telephone number in Yemen to have money transferred to him," the document says. "The number he rang in Yemen was contacted by Osama bin Laden's phone on the same day as al-Owali was arranging to get the money." 
After he was arrested, Mr. al-Owali admitted that he was a member of Al Qaeda and had asked Mr. bin Laden for another "mission" after fighting in the Afghan civil war. Mr. bin Laden sent him to East Africa as the embassy attacks were being planned. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Prime Minister Tony Blair addressing the House of Commons yesterday, in an image made from television. (Associated Press)(pg. A1); A view of damage to the American destroyer Cole in Yemen last October from a bombing by terrorists linked to Osama bin Laden. (United States Navy)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (93%); AL-QAEDA (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); HIJACKING (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); WIRETAPPING (72%); ESPIONAGE (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (66%); RELIGION (63%); ACCOUNTING (60%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MISSING PERSONS; PENTAGON BUILDING; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); US NAVY (59%) ;AL QAEDA (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (94%); TONY BLAIR (89%) ;BIN LADEN, OSAMA; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED KINGDOM (97%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); YEMEN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); GREAT BRITAIN; AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



169 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 5, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1090 words

HEADLINE: A Nation Challenged 

 BODY:
 Pinpointing the Guilty

EVIDENCE SET FORTH -- In the days before the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, Osama bin Laden indicated that he was "about to launch a major attack on America," according to a British government document accusing Mr. Bin Laden and the Al Qaeda network of "responsibility for the terrorist atrocities in the United States." A1

ROLE FOR BLAIR -- Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain flew to a meeting with Russia's president, part of his new global statesmanship. B4

Dealings With Allies

PAKISTAN'S BACKING -- Pakistan said that evidence compiled on Osama bin Laden's involvement in the terror attacks was enough to justify charges in a court of law. B5

REBELS GROWING OPIUM -- New data collected by the United Nations indicates that most opium grown in Afghanistan this year was in areas controlled by a rebel group now being courted by the United States. B5

CRITICISM FROM ISRAEL -- The Israeli prime minister issued a harsh and public rebuke of the United States' efforts to ally with Arab nations. A6

The Human Tide

IN HIS NATIVE LAND -- Osama bin Laden still enjoys some popularity in Saudi Arabia, forcing that nation's government to tread lightly. A1

FOREIGN POLICY SHIFT -- The terror attacks forced an immediate and radical shift in American relations with the rest of the world. B3

CAMP IS READIED -- Pakistan has set aside 400 desolate acres as a camp for the first 10,000 refugees who might come from Afghanistan. B3

Commander and Point Man

AIDING THE AFGHANS -- President Bush says the United States will try to deliver $320 million in food and medical supplies to Afghanistan. The announcement appeared aimed at winning over the Afghan people. A1

DIPLOMATIC VISIT -- Defense Secretary Donald Rumsfeld's tour took him to the tent of the leader of Oman. B2

Hijackers and Allies

GERMANY HAVEN -- Germany, with its liberal views on privacy and freedom, appears to have been the haven of choice for the terrorists who plotted the Sept. 11 attacks. B6

SUPPORT PACKAGE -- NATO says it will give the Americans every bit of the help that they asked for this week. B6

PEACE VIGILS PLANNED -- Groups around the United States are preparing vigils and rallies to demand alternatives to war. B6

CHANGE AT F.A.A. -- The chief of security at the F.A.A. will leave his job next month, the biggest change at the aviation agency since the hijackings. B6

A New Day and a Last Night

STEP BY STEP -- A chronology released by the F.B.I. lists the last, mundane movements of some of the hijackers: a stop at an automatic teller machine, a meal at a Pizza Hut. A1

AIRPORT REOPENS -- Planes lifted off again from Ronald Reagan National Airport for the first time since the terror attacks. B7

LOANS FOR AIRLINES -- New rules are expected to give a board headed by Alan Greenspan powers to dole out $10 billion in federally backed loans to the airline industry. B7

The Country's Mood

HELPING THE JOBLESS -- President Bush proposed measures to help people who lost jobs after the attacks, and the administration began negotiating in earnest with Congress on efforts to revive the economy. A1

SINGLED OUT -- Many African-American Muslims are finding themselves singled out for glares and harsh words because of their faith. B9

PAPER TARGETS -- The visage of Osama bin Laden has become the new target of choice at the DFW Gun Range in Dallas. B9

Debating Policy

DISSENTING VOICES -- Some conservative Republicans are beginning to challenge the administration on its campaign against terrorism. B8

TERRORISM BILLS -- House and Senate leaders expect to pass separate bills next week intended to enhance the fight against terrorism. B8

OPPOSING TRADE PLAN -- The House Democratic leader took a stand against a measure giving President Bush enhanced trade authority. B8

LOCAL MEASURES -- Governors, legislators and local officials in virtually every state are considering proposals to fight terrorism. B8

The Aftermath in New York

DAMAGE ESTIMATE -- The city comptroller issued the first official estimate of how much the World Trade Center disaster would cost: $105 billion over the next two years. B10

SECURITY STEPS -- New York has begun a host of security measures in schools, on the roads, in businesses and even at baseball games. B10

INVESTMENT VOW -- Union leaders say they want to invest what may potentially be more than $1 billion in rebuilding Lower Manhattan. B10

DEVELOPER'S PLANS -- Less than a month after the towers fell, the developer who holds the lease on the property is making plans and hiring architects to rebuild. B1

WORKERS MONITORED -- After reports of plundering, the Giuliani administration has hired four companies to monitor contractors working at the disaster site. B11

RELIEF TROUBLE -- Immigrants who were paid off the books face a maze in getting disaster relief. B11

SUPPORT FOR REBUILDING -- Those who argue that Lower Manhattan must be rebuilt quickly -- even if it means streamlining some environmental protection rules -- are getting support from environmentalists. D1

Business

RENTAL-CAR INDUSTRY -- A coalition of rental car companies has begun lobbying for a $1.5 billion aid package, arguing that they have been devastated by a plunge in business. C1

ONE COMPANY'S WOES -- The terror attacks drove American Express out of its headquarters and immediately darkened its outlook. C1

The Missing and the Dead

IDENTIFICATIONS EXPECTED -- Of the more than 5,000 people reported missing in the World Trade Center attack, only 321 remains have been identified. But that number should rise sharply in coming weeks as the first matches of more than 3,000 DNA profiles are revealed. A1

HONORING COMRADES -- The Fire Department's ceremonial unit faces a daunting and undreamed of challenge: taking part in dozens and dozens of funerals. B1

A MEMORIAL -- About 5,000 employees of the Port Authority gathered to remember fallen colleagues and the fallen towers. B11

QUESTIONS FOR FAMILIES -- Families are trying to make their way through the unfamiliar territory of catastrophic death. B12

A BLESSING -- Among the ruins of the World Trade Center attack, a ceremony was held to bless an object that has been an inspiration to many: a beam that toppled and split, landing in the form of a cross. B12

NEEDIEST CASES B12

The Arts

SYMPHONIC SOLIDARITY -- The Berlin Philharmonic has changed significantly the programs for its New York concerts, to present works deemed more fitting after the terror attacks. Now, its program book declares, "We are all New Yorkers." E1

Portraits of Grief B13

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (92%); AL-QAEDA (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); HIJACKING (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (86%); LIBERALISM (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (71%); OPIUM (69%); REFUGEES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: PIZZA HUT INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); TONY BLAIR (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); AFGHANISTAN (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); ISRAEL (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001 



170 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 643 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
Oil Experts See Little Chance Of Cut in Russian Production

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Oct. 3 

 BODY:
Russia, the world's second-largest oil exporter, is unlikely to reduce output or even slow its growth, despite pressure from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to fall in line with its attempts to shore up prices by restricting supply, analysts say.
 Russia made a small gesture in OPEC's direction this week when it agreed to bring together representatives of its biggest oil companies for talks on working with the cartel to prop up prices. But few in the industry see any prospect of concrete moves to rein in exports. 
 "They've talked the talk, but have little intention of actually following through," said Gary Ross, chief executive of the PIRA Energy Group, an energy consultancy based in New York. "It's just not in their interests. It's better to be a freeloader and let it be OPEC's problem." 
Russia has exported 9 percent more oil so far this year than it did in the corresponding period in 2000, according to the Energy Ministry. Its shipments are growing faster than any other country outside OPEC, and they undermine OPEC's efforts to keep prices high, a struggle that has become more difficult since the terror attacks on Sept. 11.
With a global economic slowdown apparently at hand, OPEC is considering trying to reduce its members' total output by 500,000 barrels a day -- exactly the amount by which Russia has increased production this year.
Unlike rivals in the Middle East, Africa and Asia, Russia has an oil industry made up of many competing private producers and traders, not a state-controlled monolith. Moscow would have a difficult time allocating and enforcing production cuts on such a fractious -- but influential -- industry.
"It's unclear politically and logistically whether they would actually manage it," said Al Breach, an economist for Goldman Sachs in Moscow. "It requires a degree of discipline which I'm not sure that decentralized Russia has."
The oil companies say it would be problematic to slow production in Russia, where most wells are old and small, pumping an average of just 100 barrels a day each. They also feel pressure to wring returns from the billions of dollars they have invested repairing old wells and upgrading fields over the last two years, ever since high world oil prices and a currency devaluation caused profits to soar.
"We're enjoying new technology that allows us to increase production," said Simon Kukes, chief executive of the Tyumen Oil Company. Slowing production, Mr. Kukes said, "is expensive -- it changes the economics for us." He said Tyumen would consider it only if the benchmark price fell below $15 a barrel.
Oil and gas are central to Russia's economy, supplying half its export earnings and one-third of the federal budget. A sharp drop in prices would puncture the budget, delicately balanced on an assumption that oil will fetch $18 a barrel, and could thereby erode President Vladimir V. Putin's popularity, which has been steady so far. 
"There's no question that a lower oil price really hurts them," Mr. Breach said. "The lower you go in the teens, the tighter the fiscal situation becomes."
The government could decide to intervene by limiting exports instead of production. The main export pipeline is run by a state-owned company, Transneft, and the Energy Ministry already sets quotas, generally allowing each producer to export about one-third of its output.
"If the government really wants to limit exports, it will," said Dmitri Savelyev, a member of Parliament who once headed Transneft.
But choking off exports without slowing production would flood oil onto Russia's domestic market, where demand is already weak and where crude sells for about two-thirds of the world price.
"It's a puny market," said Mikhail Perfilov, an editor in Moscow for Petroleum Argus, a trade publisher. "For now, the wider the pipe, the more companies are going to export."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Production at Russian refineries, including this one at Omsk, is unlikely to be altered much by pressure from OPEC. Russia has exported 9 percent more oil so far this year than it did in the period in 2000. (Yuri Kozyrev for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CARTELS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BUDGETS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); TERRORISM (66%); CURRENCIES (64%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (51%); DEVALUATION (50%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: TNK-BP LTD (61%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (61%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



171 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
New Software Patent Law For Europe Looking Limited

BYLINE:  By PAUL MELLER 

DATELINE: BRUSSELS, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
The European Union appears to be moving toward unified regulations for software patents that would be less encompassing than regulations in the United States and Japan.
 Competition officials at the European Commission, the executive arm of the 15-nation union, met Wednesday with their colleagues in charge of drafting a new law for the union, to press their case for limiting its scope. Their concern is that overly protective patent regulation could hinder competition by helping large software manufacturers maintain their dominant positions. 
 A person involved in the discussions said the concerns of the competition officials had been met. "We haven't agreed on a final position, but I don't anticipate any further difficulties in getting the draft directive approved within the commission," he said.
The approach being adopted by the commission would allow patents only for software of a technical nature, and it would not permit patents on business methods. The United States and Japan allow patents on a much wider range of software applications, and they both permit patents for business methods.
Software of a technical nature would include, for example, applications that increase the processing speed of a personal computer. Business methods include innovations like one-click purchasing, for which the online retailer Amazon received a patent in the United States in 1999. Amazon used the patent to get an injunction against use of a similar purchasing feature by a rival, Barnesandnoble.com, but that injunction was lifted by an appeals court this year pending a trial.
"The United States has swung far too far toward granting patent protection," said Thomas Vinje, a lawyer in the Brussels office of Morrison & Foerster, which represents several information technology companies. He said the appeals decision in the Barnesandnoble case was a swing back to the more sensible approach being adopted in Europe.
"The commission appears to be taking a wise approach to the software patent law," he said. "They will have come under considerable pressure to come up with something more in line with the United States and Japan. But I am glad they appear to have resisted."
Those favoring greater scope for patent protection argue that Europe's failure to adopt more protective regulations has harmed software innovation in Europe by denying the protection innovators need to get financial support for their ideas.
The European Union committee of the American Chamber of Commerce in Belgium has urged the commission at least to permit business methods to be patented.
"Some would argue that in Europe, where there is a narrower view of what can be patented, economic opportunity from software invention is limited," said Thaddeus Burns, a lawyer with the Brussels office of Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld. Europe's approach to patent law, he said, has encouraged some software engineers to seek better returns from their work elsewhere.
The software patent law for all of Europe about to be introduced by the commission follows a yearlong consultation process with the software industry and the open source software community, which develops nonproprietary computer code. The proposed directive appears to be following the less restrictive approach of the existing individual laws in place in the 15 countries of the European Union, the person involved with the discussions said.
The European Patent Office can register patents for every country in the European Union. But the system is expensive because applicants have to pay each country's national patent office to exercise their protection in that country, Mr. Burns said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PATENTS (95%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (91%); PATENT LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (77%); ENGINEERING (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (73%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); INJUNCTIONS (70%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (69%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (67%); INTERNET RETAILING (66%); APPEALS COURTS (64%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; INVENTIONS AND PATENTS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: AKIN GUMP STRAUSS HAUER & FELD LLP (84%); AMAZON.COM INC (82%); MORRISON & FOERSTER LLP (58%); BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%) EUROPEAN UNION; EUROPEAN COMMISSION 

TICKER: AMZN (NASDAQ) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (82%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (82%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (54%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (54%)

PERSON: MELLER, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); BELGIUM (94%); JAPAN (94%) EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



172 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Consumer Credit Rises at a 1.7% Rate 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Consumer credit rose by a seasonally adjusted $2.3 billion in August, or a 1.7 percent annual rate, the Federal Reserve reported today.
 Americans used credit cards more freely in August than in the previous month and took out more loans to finance big-ticket items like new cars and vacations. 
 Before the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, consumers -- whose spending accounts for two-thirds of all economic activity -- were the main force keeping the economy out of recession.
Economists were hopeful that tax rebate checks of up to $300 for individuals and $600 for couples would encourage consumers to keep spending. Most of the checks were mailed out in August and September.
But analysts now fear that consumers will cut spending, making the economy even weaker. In fact, given the economic fallout from the attacks, most economists say a recession this year is unavoidable.
The economists said they believed that consumers, faced with growing layoffs, would be reluctant to take on extra debt. 
In July, consumer borrowing fell $576.6 million, or at a rate of 0.4 percent, the second straight month of a decline in credit use.
But in August, consumers borrowed more freely. Revolving credit, like that used for credit cards, rose $1.2 billion, or at an annual rate of 2.1 percent, compared with $1.1 billion and a 1.9 percent rate in July. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER CREDIT (91%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); TERRORISM (71%) CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



173 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Cayun Journal; 
Persistence Reclaims Indians' Ceremonial Grounds

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: CAYUN, Argentina Oct. 4 

 BODY:
At 83, Filomena Cayun is missing several front teeth and needs the help of a long stick to hike the wooded Andean trails of Lanin National Park. But her memory is acute and the memories of the Mapuche Indians are full of struggle and pain.
 "My grandparents had everything, all the potatoes, goats, horses and cows they needed," she recalled. "Then the park guards came. They wouldn't let us work, and all the young people left our lands." 
 She lived in the 250-square-mile park before rangers began limiting Indian ranching and agricultural rights in the late 1940's, and now in her twilight years she is part of a resurgence of the Mapuche here.
As the rangers saw it, they were protecting the magnificent Patagonian oak and beech forests from deforestation and erosion. But by impinging on Indian land rights and burning down the huts of four Mapuche families responsible for caring for a remote holy Indian ceremonial site, the rangers stoked a lasting antagonism.
Just three years ago, 30 Mapuches stormed and occupied the central Lanin park office in nearby San Martin de los Andes. That action, along with a series of new laws and the changing attitudes of the government of President Fernando de la Rua, have spurred a new relationship between the Mapuches and the people whom the Indians still derisively call the "huincas," or palefaces.
It has taken two years of negotiations, but now government officials and Mapuche leaders meet regularly in an effort called "co-management." The growing cooperation has reversed many past policies and given the 1,500 Mapuches who live in the park new self-governing responsibilities and an array of nascent forestry, tourism, education and housing projects that emphasize self-help and jobs.
A loose confederation of hunters and fishermen, the Mapuches were fierce fighters who first resisted the Inca empire and then the Spanish on their traditional lands in Chile. Most Mapuches still live in Chile, and their contentious land battles continue there to this day. 
But tens of thousands of others were pushed into Argentina in the 18th and 19th centuries; most were massacred by the Argentine Army in the 1870's and 80's. The military campaign, known as the "Conquest of the Desert," is still commemorated on the Argentine 100 peso note.
Some 40,000 Mapuches live in Argentina today, their culture mostly broken. 
Here in Cayun, a sprawling agricultural community where many of the 20 families go by the surname Cayun, people still cling to the myth that a nearby pointed-rock formation is an enchanted volcano that has the power to discharge thunderclaps before storms arrive. Few Mapuches speak their ancient dialect, and traditional Mapuche dress has mostly been discarded.
But there is something of a cultural renaissance unfolding.
The Mapuche dialect is being taught in the local school again. Newborns are being given Mapuche names like Ayelen ("Flower") or Nahuel ("Tiger") for the first time in years. The Mapuches give much of the credit for the revival to their new relationship with the government and the National Park Service.
Thirteen houses have been constructed that combine traditional Indian materials like round volcanic rocks and the types of lumber that Mapuches here favor, but with modern insulation and bathrooms.
Ms. Cayun, who recently retired as the village leader, said she was delighted with her new house, but added: 
" We need tools to work the land and we need pavement on the roads. We need some help, but we want to do it for ourselves." 
Her house is a mix of the new and the old, with an old cast-iron stove that sits atop a modern tile floor and emits pungent wood smoke.
One house serves as a community hall, and another as a school, where a Mapuche teacher is instructing youngsters in the dialect of their ancestors. 
Esteban Manqui, 30, who works on a new government sponsored forestry project, said he derives particular satisfaction from hearing his eldest daughter speak to him in the Mapuche dialect. "I can't understand what she is saying," he said. "So I have to go to her notebook with her, and she teaches me new words." 
A community reduced to 50 people just four years ago has grown to 100. The rebirth of this village has been duplicated in others, increasing the Mapuche population in the park by 30 percent. That growth has spurred some concerns in San Martin de los Andes that conservation may be losing priority to the economic needs of the Mapuches.
Financing for the new projects is scarce, and not all the programs have gone smoothly. 
An effort in one village to replace herds of goats with llamas, which are less voracious grazers and cause less erosion, was abandoned when dogs owned by the Mapuches attacked the llamas. Since the Mapuches depend on their dogs for rabbit hunting and guarding their sheep from puma attacks, the llamas are gone. Goats are back.
More successful programs have brought Mapuche villages across the park drinking water, electricity and fencing to control animals. Several communities are being taught how to be guides for tourists who visit to fish trout or hunt wild boar.
Descendants of the four families who lost their houses in the northern reaches of the park are being allowed to return to care for the old ceremonial grounds, where a religious totem is carved in an old cypress stem. The sole condition of their return is that they do not ranch so the forests can grow undisturbed.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Filomena Cayun, 83, in Lanin National Park in Argentina. She recalled the time before rangers limited Indians rights to park land. After a protest, the Indians have new self-governing responsibilities. Esteban Manqui, right, a Mapuche on a government-sponsored lumber project, said he enjoyed hearing his eldest daughter speak to him in the Mapuche dialect. (Photographs by Horacio Paone for The New York Times) Map of Argentina highlighting Cayun: Something of a cultural renaissance is unfolding in Cayun.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (92%); MAMMALS (90%); HIKING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (76%); DEFORESTATION (75%); CHILDREN (74%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%) INDIANS, AMERICAN; MAPUCHE INDIANS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARGENTINA (95%); CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%) ARGENTINA; CAYUN (ARGENTINA); LANIN NATIONAL PARK (ARGENTINA)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



174 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: Official Says Turkey Is Advancing in Drive for I.M.F. Financing 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Turkey's economy minister said today that he had gained support in his effort to work out a deal with the International Monetary Fund by the end of October to bridge a financing gap projected for 2002.
 The minister, Kemal Dervis, confirmed that in a series of meetings this week with the I.M.F., the World Bank and the United States Treasury, he had requested additional financing for next year to help Turkey deal with the economic fallout from the attacks on the United States. 
 The minister said there was "definite support" for helping Turkey bridge its financing gap and that he was "confident" negotiations would be successful.
"I don't have an exact timetable, but I believe the next few days are going to be very important on all sides," Mr. Dervis said at a news briefing. 
"I hope we can have the review, perhaps not in the middle, but before the end of October," he said, referring to a review of Turkey's $15.7 billion I.M.F. loan program.
Mr. Dervis said he hoped that review would include bridging the financing gap for next year with either multilateral aid or some other form of support.
Turkey had been expected to complete the next review by the middle of October, but the nation's economy has suffered in recent weeks as a result of the attacks, which have shaken confidence in emerging markets around the world.
On Monday, Mr. Dervis said the impact of the attacks would wipe as much as one percentage point off economic output next year after a contraction of about 8 percent this year -- an outlook that is forcing renegotiation of I.M.F. goals for 2002.
Turkey needs foreign help to manage a huge domestic debt load and extricate its economy from its worst recession since 1945. The debt load and contraction are legacies of financial crises in November of last year and February of this year.
"We have explained through official channels the need for financing that matches the targets of our program; they will definitely support us," Mr. Dervis said. "The need for some official financing that was not originally foreseen in the 2002 numbers is accepted on all sides."
Mr. Dervis said that he had general agreement that international uncertainty following the attacks on the United States meant that Turkey, a crucial NATO ally, needed additional financing in 2002.
"Everyone accepts that because of the latest events there is a higher financing need," he told reporters. "We have to decide on the amount and shape of these in the coming days."
Mr. Dervis declined to specify how large the financing gap would be or how it would be bridged, saying only that all alternatives were under discussion.
A global downturn has shelved plans by Turkey to export its way out of trouble, and upheaval in the Middle East has hurt its ability to borrow on international markets.
Turkey has an economic recovery plan backed by $15.7 billion in I.M.F. and World Bank lending for this year. Markets in Istanbul are very keen to see details of aid for 2002, which some analysts say will have to be $10 billion to $15 billion.
Mr. Dervis said he would update Washington on the economic situation and reiterate Turkey's support for fighting against terrorism.
He also emphasized that Turkey would have to take action at home in order to secure a deal with the I.M.F or other lenders.
"Like other countries, we have to show additional efforts," he said. "Particularly on the budget and related issues, we must be fast and determined. We are working on cutting state spending as quickly as possible." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRENDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%) CREDIT; FINANCES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%) INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND; INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT 

PERSON: DERVIS, KEMAL (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



175 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1459 words

HEADLINE: Correspondent; 
The 40-Year War

BYLINE:  By BILL KELLER 

 BODY:
A dozen years ago in Termez, a dusty Uzbekistan border town that may again become a dateline, I watched the Russian Army begin its retreat from Afghanistan. As paratroopers crossed a railroad bridge into the waiting arms of parents and girlfriends, an all-girl, all-drum band from a local school tapped out a cheerless homecoming rhythm. When I asked the soldiers what they had accomplished down there, expecting at least a rehearsed sample of national pride, they would stare blankly. "We survived," one weary private shrugged. The war that had sent home 15,000 zinc coffins had also killed off a lot of illusions.
 No, this is not another warning about the perils of Afghanistan. The American officials I've talked to understand the frustrations of playing hide-and-seek in a mountain labyrinth. They appreciate the lethal instability of that country's tribal politics. The risks they take will be as calculated as they are justified. 
 What those paratroopers in Termez had lost in Afghanistan, and what our commandos are undertaking there now, is one skirmish in a bigger struggle between rival ways of seeing the world. Whether the declared war against terror will amount to a new cold war I'm not sure. The war against Communism had a definable end, where ending terrorism is a goal without a goal line. And I wonder if we have the patience for another 40-year war. Still, President Kennedy's "long twilight struggle," a bit of inaugural poetry that has been getting a lot of replay in the past few weeks, is an instructive analogy for a war that you don't so much fight as live. Certainly the new cause is giving sudden focus not only to our novice commander in chief but to anyone who has felt a little disoriented in the disorderly decade since our favorite enemy died.
There is, of course, no Soviet Union of terrorism, but as John Lewis Gaddis, the dean of cold-war historians, has been telling his classes at Yale since Sept. 11, there are striking parallels. Communism in the 1950's, Professor Gaddis points out, was seen not as a rival state but as a fearsome, state-sponsored, international conspiracy, one that threatened us from within as well as externally. The American response was called "containment," a kind of global gopher hunt aimed at countering Communist influence wherever it surfaced, using diplomacy and economic power and armed proxies more often than American military might. Rather than a wholesale frontal assault on Communism, which might have caused it to adhere, we tried to divide the Communist world -- supporting Tito in Yugoslavia, for example, and later trying to tease China apart from Russia. The grand idea of containment was that ultimately the societies stewing under Communism would reject it -- much as we now hope the host countries of the Terror International will turn against that pathology. Interviews with refugees who tell of Taliban panic and defections suggest that something of the kind may already be happening in Afghanistan.
If we are serious about this, it is one of those conflicts that can realign the world. Like the cold war, this one, while it lasts, will assert a gravitational pull on everything. It will determine who our friends are, revise our priorities and test the elasticity of our ideals. It will influence which departments are suddenly overenrolled in our colleges and who the bad guys are in our movies. It is siphoning our charity from a hundred important but suddenly less topical causes, and turning grade-school fire drills into the modern equivalent of my childhood duck-and-cover exercises. It will provide -- already is providing -- a new, opportunistic national-interest spin for lobbyists peddling everything from corporate tax cuts to medical research to farm subsidies. It may, belatedly, reshape our lumbering military and our neglected intelligence services. In the cold war, we trained soldiers to fight on great battlefields and spies to pass for diplomats. Now, if we're smart, we'll be buying agility and shrewdness and daring. We'll be featuring Islamic Americans in our Army enlistment ads and maybe recruiting some of those bright Saudi college kids from the prolific bin Laden family.
The new cold war will determine which foreign leaders and which issues occupy the president's attention. Adios, amigo, Vicente Fox and your campaign for more porous borders! Welcome, soul-brother Putin! The original cold war taught us a good deal about the value of allies. It gave birth to the Marshall Plan and NATO and those comforting arms-control treaties that, at least until recently, the new administration belittled as constraints on our freedom. Now the common fear of terrorism is beginning to drive us together, much as the fear of nuclear annihilation did. The new cold war has finally got us to pay our United Nations dues.
One price of coalition politics is unsavory bedfellows. Most Americans are more pragmatic about that than op-ed page moralists. Consort with nasty regimes if you figure it's worth it, but keep rechecking your arithmetic. We need the Russians now, as we needed Stalin once, and if that means our president pulls a punch on the subject of the indiscriminate civil carnage in Chechnya, I can live with that; the punch had no muscle behind it anyway. If there is even a remote chance that we can make Syria and Iran and Pakistan a little less hospitable for terrorists through the instrument of craven diplomacy, let's talk to them for a while, as long as talking does not become an end in itself. (I'd draw the line at selling the Iranians weapons and diverting the profits for covert wars somewhere else. That would be really stupid.) President Bush's increasingly disenchanted right-wing chorus will say we are forfeiting the moral high ground. But they managed to swallow their qualms when we were cozying up to killers in Latin America and Africa during the first cold war, and I don't recall that Jonas Savimbi was much help in the triumph of democracy.
In such a war, collateral damage means more than the civilians who perish in the path of your air strikes. It means how much you sully yourself by empowering ugly regimes in the name of common struggle, how much you compromise your freedom in the name of security, how much you undermine public trust through lies and patriotic-sounding cant. The chronicle of friendly fire upon our own people and principles in the first cold war began with the Red Scare and continued through Vietnam to the Iran-contra scandal and the eccentric politics of our Cuba policy.
This is going to be a trying time for those who promote human rights, and for those who advocate humanitarian intervention. That decent 1990's impulse to do good in Bosnia and Kosovo, even at the price of alienating Russia and China, was already, before Sept. 11, giving way to a foreign policy based on an unsentimental notion of our national interest. Now the calculations will be even colder.
On the home front, the first cold war gave us J. Edgar Hoover and Joseph McCarthy. This time, the dangers of constricting our civil liberties and forsaking our privacy are real -- ask any American Muslim or Sikh -- but they are tempered considerably by a heartland suspicion of excess government that should be deep in the fiber of this administration. As for the temptation to demonize, our tolerance has been stretched but not broken. The Wall Street Journal's editorials have been questioning the patriotism of any professor who suggests we try to understand the motives of the attackers. Some of the more hawkish demagogy aimed at Colin Powell recalls Senator McCarthy's slurs on the patriotism of the last four-star secretary of state, George C. Marshall. So far, though, it seems to me we are mostly within the bounds of robust debate.
It always bears remembering that we won the cold war less because of what we did than because of what we are. We won it because the Soviet Union had nothing to offer the least bit as enticing as what its people saw and envied in us. (The earthbound Communists could not even offer Al Qaeda's illusion of a happy next life.)
Fifty years ago, in the first flush of Red panic, George Kennan, the author of the containment policy and one of the shrewdest students of the cold war, wrote a letter warning that the fear of Communism could turn us "intolerant, secretive, suspicious, cruel, and terrified of internal dissension because we have lost our own belief in ourselves and in the power of our ideals."
"The worst thing that our Communists could do to us," he went on, "and the thing we have most to fear from their activities, is that we should become like them."
Copies of his letter should be inserted in the orientation package for employees of the new Homeland Security Council.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Knickerbocker) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); HISTORY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); POETRY (71%); HIJACKING (71%); CONSPIRACY (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: JOHN LEWIS (52%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%) KELLER, BILL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); CHINA (79%) AFGHANISTAN; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



176 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: Meeting Lean Times, Salesman Casts Net Wider and Deeper 

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: ELKHART, Ind., Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Rolling down County Road 38 in his dark green Plymouth Neon with an American flag taped to the antenna, Tom Giorgio looks out at the suburban landscape and talks about how much better the economy was not just before Sept. 11, but a year or two ago.
 "This was just a boomtown. Everything was chugging along," said Mr. Giorgio, a salesman here for W. W. Grainger Inc., which sells tools, maintenance supplies, light fixtures and other industrial supplies. "Now, we're in a recession, definitely in a recession. You can see it everywhere." 
 Mr. Giorgio, 44, sees it on his first sales call this morning, a 9 a.m. meeting in nearby Goshen at Benteler Automotive, which stamps metal parts for the auto industry. He does not get past the receptionist before hearing about how hard times have become. 
"Hello," he says. "Here to see Donna." They chitchat. "How are things going here?" Mr. Giorgio asks.
"The recession hasn't hit yet, but they're expecting it," the receptionist says. "They did halt all air travel, because they want to cut down on expenses. We sometimes fly to Tennessee when we could drive. So it's coming."
Donna Scheffers, a purchasing manager, paints a similarly stark picture after ushering Mr. Giorgio into a conference room. He pulls out his cost reports; she pulls out a pack of Doral cigarettes and says that Benteler has turned "cautious" on spending. People in the tool room, she says, have already accepted rolling two-week layoffs. 
There is no sale to be made today at Benteler. And that has often been the case for Mr. Giorgio since early last year, when the area around Elkhart, 15 miles east of South Bend and just south of the Michigan border, began feeling the first effects of an economic slowdown. On Sept. 11, the slowdown became an abrupt halt. Now, people are ready to see Mr. Giorgio again, but they are reluctant to buy. Projects are being put off; budgets are tight. And Mr. Giorgio sees the little recessionary indicators each day as he travels to his business calls.
"One sign that we're in tough times is that people have toys for sale," he says, driving through Goshen. "That was a canoe for sale back there. People are selling snowmobiles, boats and fancy R.V.'s, all their expensive toys."
The slump, Mr. Giorgio explains, has forced him to alter his sales practices. He used to spend 80 percent of his time with 20 percent of his customers -- the big purchasers like Supreme Industries, which builds trolley cars and airport buses, and Coachmen Industries, one of the recreational vehicle manufacturers which has headquarters here, earning Elkhart the nickname R.V. Capital of the World. 
Now, he is broadening his reach. "I'm out looking for new customers -- people unaffected, like school systems, food companies," he says.
So leaving Benteler, he runs over to Fairfield High School in Goshen, where he spends half an hour trying to solve a lighting problem in the gymnasium.
The head maintenance man is not too sure that Mr. Giorgio's lighting solution is going to work, but he notices that the salesman is working a little harder these days, searching catalogs and running cost estimates.
"Are you guys going to start stopping in every week now?" he asks. 
"Every other week," Mr. Giorgio replies.
"Wow. We've never had that before," the custodian says.
Back behind the wheel, heading to a 10 a.m. appointment at Supreme Industries, Mr. Giorgio points through the car windows to manufacturing plants where the workweek has shrunk to four days, in hopes of avoiding layoffs.
"This is middle America," he says, a place where subdivisions nestle against Amish farms and the local Wal-Mart has a hitching post. "But this is middle America in a downturn."
At Supreme, Mr. Giorgio makes small talk with Orv Kropf, a purchasing manager, about Notre Dame football, the 450 layoffs at Utilimaster, a local truck builder, the attacks on the World Trade Center and the prospect of war. Then the conversation turns to the 24 light fixtures that Mr. Kropf wants to order.
"Things are bad right now," Mr. Kropf says. "We need a better price. We need you to come down some." 
Mr. Giorgio, accustomed now to such talk, promised to do the best he could. Married, with two children, he is facing his own financial slowdown. He squirreled away some of his earnings from 1999, when he made the President's Club at Grainger as one of the company's top salesmen. That year, Grainger sent him and his wife, Shelley, to Cancun. This year, the family vacationed at Yellowstone National Park, a trip that he says was extremely frugal.
But like many sales people, Mr. Giorgio, who grew up in Munster, Ind., and has a degree in marketing distribution from Vincennes University, has trained himself to remain optimistic. He likes to talk about not giving up, about thinking of his sales task like a perpetual motion machine: you don't want to move a semi-truck from a dead stop.
That is why on most days he starts making calls at 6:30 a.m., planting the seeds of new sales at dawn. He knows all of his good customers well, their likes, dislikes, hobbies and recent projects. ("Hey Donna, how's your husband doing with the cars?") ("Hey Larry, how's that clamp working out?") ("Hi, Orv. How's your son's house coming along?")
At the Elkhart County archives, Randy Yohn, the county clerk, greets Mr. Giorgio with conversation about Nascar racing. Then reality sets in. "Anyway, we've been out of money," Mr. Yohn says abruptly. "That means we'll have to wait on some things. We have to wait for the next appropriation."
The county has leased a storage facility for its records, and Grainger is supplying the shelving and a few odds and ends. Mr. Giorgio generally deals in bigger items, but these days he does not mind writing up even the small sale that Mr. Yohn eventually agrees to -- for a push broom and a 55-gallon garbage container. 
He trots out to the car to get a Grainger catalog -- roughly the size of the Yellow Pages -- to look up the item numbers.
"When everyone started pulling back their purse strings, I started selling deeper in the catalog," Mr. Giorgio explains a little later. "I started saying, 'Why aren't you buying your janitorial supplies from me?' "
The recreational vehicle business, whose growth in the 1990's fueled Elkhart's boom, has led the local economy down. High interest rates and fuel prices, and a falling stock market that kept retirees from buying recreational vehicles, crushed sales at Coachmen and Jayco Inc., both industry leaders.
"A lot of economists use Elkhart as a barometer, because the R.V. industry is usually the first to go down in a recession, and the first to come back," Mr. Giorgio says. "I don't know why, but that's what they say."
After lunch, he declares, "I need to see Liz," and he steers the car toward Jayco's headquarters in Middlebury. ("It's really Mayberry," Mr. Giorgio jokes. "It's a great town.")
Elizabeth Jackson is the company's purchasing manager, and Mr. Giorgio hovers outside her office until she gets off the phone. They review some billing questions, and he asks her about the privately held company's business.
"It's not too bad, but it's nothing compared to last year," she says, and she seems less than optimistic about the prospects for a quick turnaround. She orders some janitorial equipment and ladders.
"Anything else I can help you with, Liz?" Mr. Giorgio asks. "Any projects?"
No, she says. "Everything is on hold now. They're watching things closely."
Mr. Giorgio smiles as he leaves. Not a bad day at all, he says, considering the economy. Average. 
Or maybe a little better. Supreme faxed to his office a request for a price on nine tons of rock salt. It had not been clear earlier in the day if Orv Kropf needed salt. Apparently he does.
"This is a good thing," Mr. Giorgio says, pulling into the office driveway. "I think things are going to get better."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tom Giorgio, a salesman for W.W. Grainger, makes more visits and offers more products than he used to. (Joe Raymond for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Tom Giorgio chats with John Hurley, assistant vice president of Coachmen, a maker of R.V.'s. (Joe Raymond for The New York Times)(pg. C3) Map of Indiana highlighting Elkhart: Elkhart, Ind. prospered in the 1990's by making recreational vehicles, but sales are now down. (pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (74%); TERRORISM (72%); HIJACKING (64%); AIRLINES (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; SALESMEN; TOOLS; MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT; FINANCES 

COMPANY: WW GRAINGER INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: ;GRAINGER, W W, INC 

TICKER: GWW (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5063 ELECTRICAL APPARATUS & EQUIPMENT (72%)

PERSON: ;BARBOZA, DAVID; GIORGIO, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); SOUTH BEND, IN, USA (71%) INDIANA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC); ELKHART (IND)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



177 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Green Assails Ferrer's Call For Decentralizing Business 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
Mark Green charged yesterday that Fernando Ferrer was not prepared to rebuild the city's economy in the wake of the attack on the World Trade Center, saying his plans did "not measure up to the crisis" and warning that his call to decentralize office space could break up the financial district.
 "Anybody who understands how integral financial services is to New York, anyone who understands the way markets operate, should know that you don't break up Wall Street," said Mr. Green, the public advocate and a Democratic candidate for mayor. "You don't break up Broadway, Detroit doesn't break up the auto industry, and New York doesn't break up downtown Manhattan and financial services." 
 His remarks were the latest in a series aimed at raising doubts in the minds of voters about whether his opponent for the Democratic mayoral nomination, Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, was prepared to guide the city through the current crisis.
Mr. Green has taken to speaking of his "citywide experience" a lot in recent days. On Thursday he said that Mr. Ferrer had not "risen to the emergency when it comes to safety and security." 
A spokesman for Mr. Ferrer, John Del Cecato, said, "When your political opponent attacks the details of your plan, you know you've struck a nerve."
At the heart of the debate is Mr. Ferrer's call for decentralizing office space. Mr. Ferrer released a proposal on Tuesday which said that "while Lower Manhattan must be rebuilt to have a critical mass of finance and related industries, this is an opportunity to pursue much needed development opportunities in the city outside Lower Manhattan, including the other four boroughs."
Mr. Green called a news conference yesterday with two supporters from the field of municipal finance -- the current and previous city comptrollers, Alan G. Hevesi, and Elizabeth Holtzman. They all warned that any plan that would disperse businesses from downtown would be dangerous. "A plan that calls for decentralization is not a plan for the future of New York City," Ms. Holtzman said.
Mr. Del Cecato said that Mr. Green and his supporters were misreading Mr. Ferrer's proposal. He said decentralization was a short-term solution.
"The mayor's office suggested that it will take a least a year just to clear the site," he said. "If we don't provide at least 10 million square feet of office space elsewhere, those businesses will leave, and we can't afford to have businesses flee New York City."
But in a statement that accompanied the release of the plan, Mr. Ferrer also described the need to decentralize office space as "a longer-term objective." In a debate between the two candidates on Tuesday, Mr. Ferrer said that the shape of Lower Manhattan would have to be decided in the future.
Mr. Green's salvos on the economy were representative of the more sharply confrontational tone his campaign has taken as the race heads into the final days before the Oct. 11 runoff.
Ever since Mr. Ferrer finished first in the Sept. 25 primary, and won several important endorsements -- including one from former Mayor Edward I. Koch and, yesterday, another from the United Federation of Teachers -- Mr. Green has shown a new willingness to openly criticize him.
This week Mr. Green accused Mr. Ferrer of running a "polarizing campaign" because of his theme of running for "the other New York."
He has said that the Rev. Al Sharpton, who is supporting Mr. Ferrer, was wrong to diminish Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's response to the recent terrorist attacks by saying that even Bozo could have brought the city together. And Mr. Green has repeatedly questioned Mr. Ferrer's plans to rebuild the city and provide security.
As Mr. Ferrer received the endorsement of the teachers union, he said: "There should be no negative campaigning here. I won't engage in it. I won't respond to it."
Mr. Green still has a big financial advantage over Mr. Ferrer. Papers filed yesterday with the Campaign Finance Board indicated that Mr. Green had more than four times as much money on hand as Mr. Ferrer does, but that Mr. Ferrer has been raising more than he has in recent weeks.
From Sept. 18 to Oct. 1., Mr. Green raised $87,435 and spent $1,397,617, according to the filings. His campaign said that its balance at the end of the period was $3.8 million. During the same period Mr. Ferrer raised $134,011 and spent $878,159, his campaign reported. They said that the campaign's balance at the end of the period was $892,609.
When Mayor Giuliani was asked about the new tone of the race, he said: "If each of them would stop accusing each other of being divisive, then nobody would. . ." Then he stopped in midsentence. "If I say anything about the Democratic primary, they'll say I'm interfering in the Democratic primary," he said. "That's either a sin or a crime." He was not so circumspect earlier, when he made a series of daily attacks on one of the candidates, Mr. Hevesi, which many Democrats believe were critically damaging.
Mr. Green was endorsed yesterday by the unions representing New York City police captains and lieutenants and the Uniformed Fire Officers Association. Capt. John Driscoll, the president of the Captains Endowment Association, painted Mr. Green as a consistent police critic back in August, after endorsing endorsing Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker.
But yesterday he praised Mr. Green as someone who would stay "vigilant on crime."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Green, right, meeting with the Rev. Gardner Taylor at the East Ward Missionary Baptist Church in Manhattan. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); HIJACKING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); TERRORISM (73%); RELOCATIONS (72%); TRENDS (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ELECTION ISSUES; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); MISSING PERSONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; TERRORISM; ENDORSEMENTS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLICE; FIRES AND FIREMEN; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: ;UNIFORMED FIRE OFFICERS ASSN; CAPTAINS ENDOWMENT ASSN 

PERSON: GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); COOPER, MICHAEL; HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); HOLTZMAN, ELIZABETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



178 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Group of 7 Set to Explore Ways to Recharge World Economy 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said he and his counterparts from the world's leading industrial nations would explore fresh ways of stimulating their economies when they gathered here this weekend. But European and Japanese leaders played down expectations that wealthy countries would act in concert to address the worsening global slump.
 Mr. O'Neill said the Group of 7 finance ministers also plan to step up their coordinated crackdown on the finances of terrorists by making sure all allied countries have laws in place that would make it harder for terrorists to use the international financial system. 
 The United States and its peers were suffering a synchronized slump even before Sept. 11. They have now entered a period of severe weakness, with both the United States and Japan likely to experience recessions this year and Europe growing at a negligible rate.
American officials have urged their Japanese and European counterparts for years to overhaul their economies and reduce the cost of money so they can grow as rapidly as the United States. The idea that Europe and Japan need to fuel their economies has become even more pressing now, with the United States unable to serve as a locomotive as it did through much of the 1990's.
Though Mr. O'Neill did not provide details of what he hopes to achieve at this weekend's meeting, he sounded optimistic that a renewed spirit of unity after the terrorist strikes might prompt the other industrial nations to become more aggressive in stimulating their economies.
"Things that up to now seemed not possible are all of a sudden not only possible, but quick action is possible with lots of countries," he said.
For Europe, the main topic will be increasing fiscal spending to counter the downturn without breaching the rules set when the region's common currency, the euro, was created. Under the Stability and Growth Pact, countries risk fines if their deficits exceed 3 percent of gross domestic product. But they have the leeway to suspend that requirement in a crisis, and American officials are clearly hoping that Europe will agree to put the rule in abeyance.
Japan, which has already cut interest rates to zero and spent its way into huge deficits to try to ignite its economy, is under pressure to tackle its banking woes. Some American officials would like to see Japan print more money to counter deflation.
The United States has taken steps to counter its own economic problems. The Federal Reserve has lowered the benchmark interest rate by a full percentage point, to 2.5 percent, since the attacks. The Bush administration and Congress are working on spending and tax cuts of $100 billion or more.
It is unclear, though, whether the Group of 7 can muster a consensus for forceful action. Though Gordon Brown, Britain's chancellor of the exchequer, said his country would support doing "whatever we have to do" to revive growth, his German counterpart damped expectations.
"A concerted economic stimulus package is out of the question," Hans Eichel, the German finance minister, said in Berlin before departing for Washington. "The attacks affected the U.S. in a different way to the rest of the world. Therefore, such a package is not relevant to Europe."
Japanese officials also signaled that they are not eager to take decisive new steps. "If there is a shift in the international economic situation, then we may have to consider" fresh measures, Finance Minister Masajuro Shiokawa said. "But we can't decide what to do so soon."


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TERRORISM (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); TRENDS (77%); RECESSION (77%); DEFLATION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); TAX LAW (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); CURRENCIES (62%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN 

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (50%) O'NEILL, PAUL (SEC); KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (95%); JAPAN (95%) EUROPE; JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



179 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-7

Pentagon Says Data Shows Missile Brought Down Jet
Pentagon officials said they strongly believed that a long-range anti-aircraft missile fired in a Ukrainian military training exercise struck a Siberian Airways jet on Thursday, causing it to crash with a loss of 78 lives. Ukrainian officials, who initially denied suggestions that one of their missiles was responsible, said they were now uncertain about the cause of the crash. Russian officials demanded that the United States provide evidence to back up its version. A6

Iran Reviews Foreign Policy
Parliament established a special panel to study Iran's international relations in the face of a possible military strike by the United States against Afghanistan. A6

G-7 Seeks Economic Remedies
Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill said the Group of Seven leading industrial nations would explore ways of stimulating their economies when they meet in Washington this weekend. A5

World Briefing A6

OBITUARIES C15-16

Mike Mansfield
The former Senate majority leader, a Democrat from Montana, who also served as the United States ambassador to Japan, was 98. A1

SCIENCE/HEALTH

A Cosmic 'Building Block'
Astronomers have detected the faint light from a small congregation of stars so far away that they think it is a vision of the early universe at the beginning of its transformation from virtual emptiness to a place of arching galaxies on a majestic scale. A9

Anthrax Patient Dies
The 63-year-old South Florida man hospitalized with pulmonary anthrax on Tuesday died, state health officials said. They emphasized that there was no evidence that the man, Robert Stevens, had contracted the disease through bioterror and said that there was no public health risk. A9

NATIONAL A8-12

Georgia High Court Bars Use of Electrocution
The State Supreme Court ruled, 4 to 3, that electrocution is an unconstitutionally cruel and unusual punishment. The decision was the first of its kind by an appellate-level court in the United States. Alabama and Nebraska remain the only states using the electric chair as the sole method of execution. Some 441 inmates were put to death in Georgia's electric chair, the last in June 1998. A8

Killing May Be Bias Crime
The police in Reedley, Calif., are investigating the killing of a convenience store owner, Abdo Ali Ahmed, as a possible hate crime. Mr. Ahmed, 51, a Muslim and native of Yemen, was shot in his shop last Saturday afternoon. No money was taken, though the police are not ruling out the possibility that the killing resulted from a botched robbery. A8

Shooting Causes Pipeline Spill
Workers struggled to contain one of the largest spills in the 24-year history of the trans-Alaska oil pipeline, a leak caused by a man who fired a bullet into the 4-foot-wide structure on Thursday after a heavy bout of drinking, law enforcement officials said. The authorities said that they had no indication that the shooting, which caused at least 150,000 gallons to spill onto the tundra north of Fairbanks, was an act of terror or premeditated sabotage. A11

Higher Utility Rates Approved
A federal judge approved a settlement intended to keep Southern California Edison out of bankruptcy by having customers continue paying the higher rates that were imposed in May for at least two years more. The settlement also requires Edison shareholders to forgo $1.2 billion in dividends over three years. A12

New Pennsylvania Governor
Lt. Gov. Mark S. Schweiker, a Republican, was sworn in as the state's 44th governor, succeeding Tom Ridge, also a Republican, whom President Bush appointed to a new antiterror position in Washington. Mr. Schweiker said one of his first acts as governor would be to authorize the hiring of 100 more state troopers and appoint a task force on security. A8

Religion Journal A12

NEW YORK/REGION D1-4

Federal Study Endorses Natural Gas Pipeline
An environmental study by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, an independent agency, recommended approval of the Millennium Pipeline, a $700 million high-pressure natural gas line that would run through Westchester County and parts of upstate New York. The plan is fiercely opposed by many local officials and residents. D1

Language Barrier Proves Deadly
Ibrahim Diallo, 52, an immigrant from Guinea who knew little English, was killed during a robbery at a Brooklyn restaurant apparently because he did not understand an assailant's command to hand over his wallet, the police said. Mr. Diallo was not related to Amadou Diallo, an unarmed immigrant who was killed by the police in the Bronx in 1999. D1

Attacks Figure in Labor Talks
Some labor leaders, especially those in the city's police unions, say the attack on the trade center could increase their bargaining leverage because of widespread acclaim for the heroism shown by police officers and firefighters. But the city may counter that the attacks have also caused huge budget problems. D2

EDUCATION

Teachers' Union Backs Ferrer
The union representing New York City teachers formally endorsed Fernando Ferrer for mayor. Randi Weingarten, the union president, portrayed Mr. Ferrer as the candidate who would rebuild Lower Manhattan and make New Yorkers feel safe without abandoning the goal of making teachers' salaries competitive with those in the suburbs. D1

ARTS & IDEAS A13-21

SPORTS D5-12

Bonds Passes McGwire
Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants hit his 71st and 72nd home runs of the regular season when the Giants faced the Los Angeles Dodgers. He surpassed the record 70 home runs that Mark McGwire hit during the 1998 season. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Jobs Cuts Rose Before Attacks
In the weeks before Sept. 11, the economy lost more jobs than in any similar period in the last decade, the government reported, making clear that the economy was sliding into recession before the attacks. C1

Broad Stock Advance
The Dow gained 58.89 points, to 9,119.77; the Nasdaq rose 7.99 points, to 1,605.30; and the S.& P. 500 edged up 1.75 points, to 1,071.38. The gains followed President Bush's calling on Congress to approve $60 billion in tax cuts to buttress the economy. C4

Airline Board Empowered
The Bush administration issued rules giving a special emergency board led by Alan Greenspan wide discretion to support the troubled airline industry, even allowing it to use government-backed loans to underwrite mergers if it sees fit. C1

Sun Warns of Bigger Loss
Sun Microsystems said it would post a wider-than-expected loss for its first fiscal quarter and lay off about 3,900 employees, or 9 percent of its work force, in an effort to become profitable again by June. C4

Price War Costs Chip Maker
Advanced Micro Devices said a price war with Intel, its chief rival, had driven down third-quarter revenue by 22 percent from the second quarter and widened its net loss to as much as $220 million. C4

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: The case against bin Laden; the fading appeal of farm subsidies; a flawed stimulus plan.

Columns: Bill Keller, Anthony Lewis.

Bridge A19
Public Lives A8
Crossword A20
Weather A10
TV Listings A24

GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EVIDENCE (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); ANTHRAX (87%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (86%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (85%); APPEALS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ANTIAIRCRAFT WEAPONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); MILITARY TRAINING (77%); ROBBERY (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); HATE CRIME (69%); CRUEL & UNUSUAL PUNISHMENT (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LITIGATION (67%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (65%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (64%); TERRORISM (64%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (63%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (62%); OIL SPILLS (62%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (60%); CONVENIENCE STORES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: ROBERT J STEVENS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); UKRAINE (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); JAPAN (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



180 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: I.N.S. Urges Immigrants to Report the Missing 

BYLINE:  By SOMINI SENGUPTA 

 BODY:
The chief of the nation's immigration agency yesterday urged immigrants who are in the country illegally to report friends and family missing in the trade center attack and to seek disaster relief without fear of retribution.
 The comments of the immigration commissioner, James W. Ziglar, came after widespread reports that illegal immigrants were reluctant to file missing-persons reports and seek disaster relief for fear that they would be discovered and deported by the Immigration and Naturalization Service. Their fears are compounded by a 1996 law that requires states to report, four times a year, information about people who are in the country illegally. 
 But Mr. Ziglar, speaking to reporters at a Roman Catholic church in Midtown after a rare meeting with immigrants' advocates called at his behest, insisted that his agency was not interested in knowing which victims of the terrorist attacks were here illegally. 
"We would not use that information against them," Mr. Ziglar said. "Frankly, we don't want that information."
A spokesman for the I.N.S. in Washington added later that the reporting requirement for states was not enforced and most states did not adhere to the letter of the law.
Mr. Ziglar, appointed by President Bush in July, is in a delicate political position in the wake of the terrorist attacks. With the heightened anxiety about foreigners, the nation's immigration policy has come under intense scrutiny. Members of Congress have called for measures like a moratorium on issuing student visas, and the Bush administration has sought to expand its authority to detain immigrants who are not yet United States citizens.
In measured tones yesterday, Mr. Ziglar cautioned that "people of ill will" should not use the terrorist attack to foment anti-immigrant sentiment. "What happened on Sept. 11 is not about immigrants; it's about evil," he said.
Nevertheless, he said, changes are likely to ensue, including a greater vigilance on tracking foreign students and those who overstay their tourist or temporary work visas. Negotiations over a program that would give legal status to the nation's eight million illegal immigrants has been suspended.
"I don't personally see some sort of harsh anti-immigrant policy coming out of this," he said. "I will weigh in on behalf of balance and good faith and compassion."
The number of illegal immigrants who were among the dead, missing and injured in the World Trade Center attack is impossible to know. According to State Department estimates, the citizens of 79 countries are among the missing.
There has been vast confusion and fear in immigrant communities about seeking relief. Families of those who are missing or injured are entitled to compensation from the State Crime Victims Board. Those who are unemployed as a result of the attacks, while ineligible for federally financed unemployment insurance, can apply for aid from private charities, like the Red Cross and United Way's Sept. 11 Fund.
Still, some immigrants who are here illegally have had great difficulty proving where they worked and how much they earned. They were paid off the books, so they have no pay stubs to offer. Some say they have had great difficulty obtaining a letter from their employers. Others have gone to agencies to apply for relief only to leave when asked for a Social Security number. For some disaster aid, they are not required to furnish a Social Security number.
Yesterday, the advocates who met with the commissioner said they hoped that his message was heard by workers at the relief centers.
Margie McHugh, director of the New York Immigration Coalition, an advocacy group, added that while she was reassured by the commissioner's comments, she still had concerns about how information about the immigration status of those applying for aid would be maintained and used. Until recently, a city law prohibited city workers from sharing such information with immigration authorities. But that law was superseded by the 1996 federal welfare statutes.
"There will be extensive records kept of people who access these programs," Ms. McHugh said. "In our view, it's essential that those records do not contain information about an individual's immigration status." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); TERRORISM (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); MISSING PERSONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEPORTATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); FAMILY (78%); HIJACKING (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (70%); RELIGION (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); CHARITIES (61%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (54%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; ILLEGAL ALIENS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; MISSING PERSONS 

ORGANIZATION: ;IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE 

PERSON: SENGUPTA, SOMINI; ZIGLAR, JAMES W (COMR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



181 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Backing Ferrer, Union Focuses On Teacher Pay 

BYLINE:  By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

 BODY:
As the union representing New York City teachers formally endorsed Fernando Ferrer for mayor, its leader sought to portray him yesterday as the candidate who would rebuild Lower Manhattan and make New Yorkers feel safe without abandoning the goal of making teachers' salaries competitive with those in the suburbs.
 Randi Weingarten, the union president, harked back to the fiscal crisis of the early 1970's and warned that the impending recession must not have the same devastating impact on the school system. 
 "Freddy understands that you cannot rebuild New York unless you ensure that our schools work for all our children," Ms. Weingarten said in a news conference at the Manhattan headquarters of the union, the United Federation of Teachers. 
But it remains unclear whether the union's 100,000 members who live in New York City will follow Ms. Weingarten's lead and vote for Mr. Ferrer in the runoff on Thursday. After the union endorsed Alan G. Hevesi for the Democratic primary, only 20 percent of teachers voted for Mr. Hevesi, compared with 29 percent for Mr. Ferrer and 32 percent for Mark Green, according to surveys of voters leaving the polls.
In an interview after the news conference, Ms. Weingarten suggested that many of her members did not vote for Mr. Hevesi because the union stopped promoting his candidacy after Sept. 11, the day of the World Trade Center attack. "The members want signals," she said, "and once we didn't give them a signal, in school after school, they voted for whomever they wished to vote for."
One longtime union delegate said yesterday that since this week's meeting for the endorsement vote was scheduled at the last minute, the delegates who ended up attending -- only about 500 out of 2,800 -- were those closest to the union leadership and most likely to support the candidate Ms. Weingarten favored. Many teachers had hoped the union would remain neutral in the runoff, the delegate said.
Ms. Weingarten said she had seriously considered remaining neutral until after the two Democratic candidates addressed the delegates and Mr. Ferrer was received fervently. "I think it's very fair to say that Freddy Ferrer earned the endorsement of the delegates," she said.
Mr. Ferrer, the Bronx borough president, repeated some of his remarks to the teachers at yesterday's news conference, saying that school reform would remain a top priority. "The minute we abandon our school system, the minute we sacrifice the things we say we believe in, then we've lost a long-term fight for New York," he said.
Yet even as Mr. Ferrer reiterated his goal to invest heavily in schools, both he and Ms. Weingarten acknowledged that his cornerstone proposal, raising teachers' salaries by 30 percent at the cost of at least $1 billion a year, would not be achieved anytime soon.
Ms. Weingarten even suggested that Mr. Ferrer's 30 percent figure, which he has discussed repeatedly and insistently since January, had been more a symbol than a concrete goal. She said that she had chastised Mr. Ferrer for proposing such a specific salary increase when he first did so in January, but that Mr. Ferrer had assured her that he was only trying to make a point.
"What he said to me initially, privately, was, 'What I was doing was making sure people knew how important it was, and if I didn't put a number out there that was very big, people wouldn't understand how important it was,' " she said.
Ms. Weingarten said that both Mr. Ferrer and Mr. Green, his opponent in the Democratic runoff, had assured the union's delegate assembly on Thursday that they would not abandon their major education proposals. But Mr. Green, the city's public advocate, failed to persuade the delegates in attendance that he had "walked in their shoes," Ms. Weingarten said. For example, she said, Mr. Green emphasized his plan to reduce class sizes in kindergarten through third grade, which would not affect the tens of thousands of members who teach older children.
Ms. Weingarten said that many teachers were also reluctant to endorse Mr. Green because he had agreed to Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's proposal to remain in office for three more months. The union loathes Mr. Giuliani because he has harshly criticized teachers throughout his tenure and has refused to meet their demands for a raise of at least 20 percent. Unlike Mr. Green, Mr. Ferrer refused to support the mayor's request.
Besides sharply raising the starting teacher's salary of $31,910, Mr. Ferrer has promised to keep all the city's 200 middle schools open until 6 p.m. on weekdays and create weekend programs for middle-school students. To cover the estimated $100 million annual cost, Mr. Ferrer would reinstate part of the surcharge of the personal income tax.
Mr. Ferrer's spokesman, John Del Cecato, said yesterday that Mr. Ferrer was still "completely committed" to raising taxes to finance his after-school proposal. But he said that Mr. Ferrer would be more insistent that the state meet a court order to sharply increase aid to New York City schools. Gov. George E. Pataki has appealed the court decision, which would increase state education aid by at least $1 billion.
Mr. Green had long rankled the teachers' union by putting the reduction of class sizes at the top of his education agenda, a strategy that the union saw as a distraction from the goal of steep raises for teachers. While his spokesman said yesterday that Mr. Green still embraced both goals, he made clear that smaller classes remained the top priority.
"Along with rebuilding the city, reducing class size remains for him a No. 1 priority," the spokesman, Joe DePlasco, said. Asked about increasing teachers' salaries, Mr. DePlasco said that Mr. Green was still committed to doing so, but that the police also needed a raise.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Randi Weingarten, president of the United Federation of teachers, yesterday with Fernando Ferrer, whom the union endorsed. Many teachers had hoped the union would remain neutral in the runoff, one delegate said. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (91%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); MAYORS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (70%) ELECTIONS; MAYORS; ENDORSEMENTS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS (91%) UNITED FEDERATION OF TEACHERS 

PERSON: FERRER, FERNANDO (BORO PRES); GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); WEINGARTEN, RANDI; GOODNOUGH, ABBY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



182 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 130 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED 

 BODY:
 Anthrax Vaccine Problems
The only laboratory in the United States licensed to make an anthrax vaccine has not produced any since 1998 because it keeps failing government inspections. PAGE B1

National Guard at Airports
National Guard troops took up security positions at airports across the country, trying to reassure passengers that it is once again safe to take to the skies. PAGE B9

Trying to Buy a Safer World
Nervous about terrorism, wealthy Americans are pouring money into a variety of measures that they hope will make their private worlds a little bit safer. PAGE B7

Big Job Cuts Before Attacks
In the weeks before Sept. 11, the economy lost more jobs than in any similar period in a decade, making clear that the country was already sliding into recession. PAGE C1

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VACCINES (90%); ANTHRAX (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LAYOFFS (87%); RECESSION (85%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%) TERRORISM 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



183 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
SEMICONDUCTOR MAKER PAYS DOWN AND EXTENDS ITS DEBT

BYLINE:  Reuters 

 BODY:
 Agere Systems Inc., a maker of semiconductors and optical components, said it had paid back $1 billion of the $2.5 billion of debt it took on when it was spun off by the telecommunications equipment maker Lucent Technologies Inc. in March. 
Agere also said its bank lenders had extended the maturity date of its remaining $1.5 billion credit facility to Sept. 30, 2002, from Feb. 21, 2002. The banks modified other parts of the facility as well, the company said. The company, based in Allentown, Pa., said the lower debt and amended credit facility would give it room as it struggles with the economic slowdown. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (92%); ELECTRONICS (91%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (85%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) FINANCES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; CREDIT 

COMPANY: LSI CORP (93%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (72%)

ORGANIZATION: AGERE SYSTEMS INC; LUCENT TECHNOLOGIES INC 

TICKER: LSI (NASDAQ) (93%); ALU (PAR) (72%); ALU (NYSE) (72%); ALU (BIT) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (72%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (72%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (72%) SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALLENTOWN, PA, USA (51%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (66%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



184 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1786 words

HEADLINE: Counterpoint to Unity: Dissent 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
The novelist Alice Walker argued that the best way to punish Osama bin Laden for the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11 would be not to strike militarily: "The only punishment that works is love." Noam Chomsky, the perennial dissenter from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, argued that American actions around the world had caused more death and destruction than took place in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania. Chalmers Johnson, a political science professor, in an article in The Los Angeles Times, wrote that a military "overreaction" by the United States would turn the country into a "rogue state" that would be subject to more terrorist attacks.
 As Americans waited for the Bush administration to act against Mr. bin Laden and the Taliban in Afghanistan, a few voices of opposition could be heard, even as peace demonstrations took place in Washington and on many university campuses. Intellectuals, in other words, were doing what they always do, and what a free society usually expects them to: trying to anchor opinion in knowledge, giving priority to reason at a time when many others may be overcome with emotion, and pricking the consciences of their fellow citizens. 
 As always, too, sober, refined and thoughtful statements were mixed with a degree of what some critics of the dissenters were treating as the higher silliness. And so, not surprisingly, some of the dissenting statements produced angry or sarcastic rejoinders. 
The liberal New Republic, for example, put what it called an "Idiocy Watch" on its Web site (www.thenewrepublic.com) and invited readers to submit examples of silly things being said in the wake of the attack. And the conservative Weekly Standard last week gave what it called its first Susan Sontag Certificate, as its "way of recognizing inanity by intellectuals and artists in the wake of terrorist attacks." 
The magazine's jokey awards were a measure of the attention that Ms. Sontag, the essayist and critic, attracted with a short article she wrote in the New Yorker the week after the attacks. In it Ms. Sontag said the attacks were aimed not at American freedom but rather at "the world's self-proclaimed superpower, undertaken as a consequence of specific American alliances and actions." If anyone was a coward, she said, it was not the suicidal hijackers but those -- presumably American -- pilots who bomb from the air, safe from harm themselves.
On the left, where most of the dissent derives, essentially two arguments have been made against the early pronouncements and programs of the Bush administration. One is that military action would only increase the cycle of violence while failing to cure the root cause of terrorism, which the writer Barbara Ehrenreich called "the vast global inequalities in which terrorism is ultimately rooted." 
Mr. Johnson, a professor emeritus at the University of California at San Diego, agreed that those responsible should be brought to justice and that it would be appropriate to declare war on any state that harbored the terrorists or helped them. But he warned that an American overreaction -- namely a war against "the hopeless and impoverished people of Afghanistan" -- would produce "a further cycle of terrorist attacks, American casualties and escalation."
On the right side of the spectrum, the opposite point of view -- that the military response must be overwhelming -- prevails, and since the Bush administration has promised to get Mr. bin Laden dead or alive, there has been less dissent from official policy despite a few comments like that of the writer Mark Helprin that the attacks were a consequence of American "appeasement." 
The other common critique offered by the left is a more general one, that American policies and actions around the world caused the anti-American fury that erupted on Sept. 11. 
The idea that the United States is widely hated because of its policies -- rather than because of its freedom -- is a common theme. Stanley Hauerwas, a professor of theological ethics at Duke University and an avowed pacifist, argued that the United States should arrest those responsible instead of killing them. 
"The events of Sept. 11 have brought home to America that war is about dying," he wrote in The Chronicle of Higher Education. "I'm not quite sure how that will be received. I suspect it will produce a more repressive politics than we already experience. Americans have no sense of how it is that we can be this hated. It never occurs to them that our country's actions have terrible results for other people around the world, and that they blame us."
Paul Kennedy, the Yale University professor best known for his book warning against American imperial overreach, provoked a stir when he asked students to imagine how they would feel if the United States were small and the world dominated by a unified Arab-Muslim state. "In those conditions, would not many Americans grow to loathe that colossus?" he asked. "I think so."
This prompted a rejoinder from Donald Kagan, a Yale classics professor and a conservative in foreign affairs, who said that Mr. Kennedy's comments were a "classic case of blaming the victim." 
Other commentators have reacted more strongly to such expressions of dissent. Andrew Sullivan wrote on www.andrewsullivan.com, his Web site: "The middle part of the country -- the great red zone that voted for Bush -- is clearly ready for war. The decadent left in its enclaves on the coasts is not dead -- and may well mount what amounts to a fifth column." 
In addition to these sharply polemical exchanges, some thoughtful scholars have established a kind of middle position, one in which they blame the terrorists for terrorism but caution against a response that would erode democratic values or commitment to laws. Richard Falk, the political science professor from Princeton, known as a leftist critic of American foreign policy, argued like other dissenters that the deeper cause of terrorism was "the mass of humanity" that "finds itself under the heels of U.S. economic, military, cultural and diplomatic power." 
Still, he labeled the attacks "massive crimes against humanity" and said that those responsible should be punished to the full extent of the law. "Any use of force," he argued, "should be consistent with international law and with the 'just war' tradition governing the use of force -- that is, it should discriminate between military and civilian targets, be proportionate to the challenge and be necessary to achieve a military objective, avoiding superfluous suffering." 
Mr. Falk is a familiar figure from the years of the anti-Vietnam War movement of a quarter century ago, and so are some of the other figures on the left who have spoken out. Howard Zinn, the Boston University history professor wrote, "We need to think about the resentment all over the world felt by people who have been the victims of American military action -- in Vietnam, in Latin America, in Iraq." 
Another figure from the antiwar movement is Mr. Chomsky, who has never stopped criticizing American foreign policy as the major cause of hardship and harm in the world. He has long since stopped getting much notice among mainstream journals of opinion in the United States, but he retains an avid following among the numerous small leftist groups with magazines and Web sites and among the foes of so-called globalization. 
"The terrorist attacks were major atrocities," Mr. Chomsky wrote, "but in scale they may not reach the level of many others, for example, Clinton's bombing of the Sudan with no credible pretext, destroying half its pharmaceutical supplies and killing unknown numbers of people." His reference was to the 1998 missile attack against a factory that was believed by American intelligence to be a cover for a chemical weapons plant.
Statements like these have generated responses both from the more moderate left and from conservatives, like the editors of The Weekly Standard, who declared that Mr. Chomsky "fell off the cliff into goofiness more than 30 years ago and hasn't made any effort to climb back." 
His most visible critic from the left was the writer Christopher Hitchens, whose columns over the years in The Nation have not generally shown him to be an uncritical admirer of the American role in the world. Mr. Hitchens, beginning several public exchanges with Mr. Chomsky published in The Nation, excoriated what he called "the liberal-left tendency to 'rationalize' the aggression of Sept. 11," which, he added, was "a plan, deliberated for months, to inflict maximum horror upon the innocent." 
To conservative commentators, remarks like those of Ms. Sontag, Mr. Kennedy and Mr. Chomsky smacked of an old leftist impulse to find the primary fault with the United States and to assume that its enemies were reacting naturally and understandably to the American abuse of power around the world. The specific measures, for example, that Mr. Johnson recommended were these: 
"We must recognize that the terrorism of Sept. 11 was not directed against America but against American foreign policy. We should listen to the grievances of the Islamic peoples, stop propping up repressive regimes in the area, protect Israel's security but denounce its apartheid practices in Palestinian areas and reform our 'globalization' policies so that they no longer mean that the rich are getting richer and the poor poorer." 
One difference between dissent during the Vietnam War era and now, however is that nobody feels any sympathy for the forces decreed by the American government to be the country's enemies. The arguments are not that Mr. bin Laden's organization, or the Taliban, are progressive or revolutionary forces, but that war fever, as some critics have characterized the American response so far, will only lead to no good. 
But has war fever really taken over? As the week ended, there was no full-scale invasion or massive bombing of Afghanistan; the White House has been talking of a carefully calibrated response. It seemed as though the recommendations of some supposed critics of American policy were indistinguishable from the actual policies being carried out. The Bush administration's announcement that it would send $320 million in food and medicine to Afghanistan, for example, seemed consistent with the belief of Katha Pollitt, a columnist for The Nation, that the United States should take the money it would spend on bombs "to help the wretched Afghan people and support those among them who favor democracy." 
In this sense, some of the dissent seemed more to anticipate events rather than react to them. It will be up to thinkers and commentators in the weeks ahead to see if the worries they have expressed were real.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Demonstrators in Washington, above, and Swarthmore, Pa., right, urge a restrained response to terrorist attacks. (Above, Agence France-Presse; below, Associated Press)(pg. A13); Alice Walker said terrorism should be met with love. (Peter DaSilva)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); WRITERS (89%); HIJACKING (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LITERARY CRITICISM (78%); TALIBAN (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); RIOTS (65%); SUICIDE (64%); AIRLINES (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (56%); WEB SITES (50%) TERRORISM; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; PENTAGON BUILDING; HIJACKING; MISSING PERSONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (71%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%) WALKER, ALICE; SONTAG, SUSAN; BERNSTEIN, RICHARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



185 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Job Cuts Increased Even Before Sept. 11 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
In the weeks before Sept. 11, the American economy lost more jobs than in any similar period in the last decade, the government reported yesterday, making clear that the country was sliding into recession even before the terrorist attacks.
 The layoffs extended far beyond the manufacturing sector that had earlier suffered the brunt of the slowdown and into the usually stable service sector that makes up most of the economy. Supermarkets, restaurants, clothing stores, movie theaters and temporary-help agencies all cut thousands of jobs in late August and early September. 
 "We were headed into a recession already on Sept. 10," said John P. Lipsky, the chief economist at J. P. Morgan Chase & Company. 
The Labor Department, which conducted its monthly jobs survey shortly after the attacks, considered anybody who worked at all during the week beginning Monday, Sept. 10, to be employed in September. Even so, the economy lost 199,000 jobs from the month before, the agency reported, the most since February 1991, when the United States was last in a recession. 
With airlines, other travel-related businesses and a variety of companies in different industries having already made or announced large layoffs in the last three weeks, economists said the unemployment numbers were likely to become significantly worse in the government's next report, which will be released early in November.
In September, the unemployment rate held steady at 4.9 percent, but economists said that disguised the labor market's weakness. Since January, the survey of households, which produces the unemployment rate, has offered a more pessimistic picture of the work force than a more comprehensive survey of businesses. Yesterday's report brings the two sets of statistics more closely in line with each other.
The decline in payrolls was twice as large as most analysts had expected, and stocks fell after the report's release. They recovered in the afternoon, and the Dow Jones industrial average closed at 9,119.77, up 58.89 points, or 0.65 percent.
The jobs data underscored the difficulty of the task facing policy makers who are trying to revive the economy through a combination of interest rate reductions, tax cuts and government spending. Even before the Sept. 11 attacks shocked many Americans into reducing spending, if only temporarily, consumer confidence was falling sharply. That heightened concerns among analysts that the strongest part of the economy over the last year -- personal spending -- was on the verge of weakening further. 
"The consumer had hung in there and hung in there, shrugging off a lot of adversity, like the decline in the stock market," said Stephen Slifer, an economist at Lehman Brothers. But in the few weeks before Sept. 11, he added, the consumer "was suddenly worried about his job, and that's a horse of a different color." 
The overall earnings of American workers also appear to have begun shrinking, as companies reduced the total number of hours worked last month more quickly than they increased wages. For much of this year, increases in wages were at a healthy pace, as a labor market that remained tight by historical standards prodded most companies into continuing to raise the pay of their employees.
In September, average hourly earnings rose 0.2 percent, to $14.44, while an index that tracks the hours worked by a large number of employees fell 0.3 percent, its fourth consecutive decline. The terrorist attacks may well have affected or partly distorted the data on hours worked, economists said.
Still, Mr. Lipsky of J. P. Morgan said, many consumers now have much stronger reasons to spend less money than they had been during the summer: the smaller paychecks they are receiving and the newfound uncertainty they have about the country's future.
President Bush, speaking yesterday in the Rose Garden, said nearly all of the stimulus package now being debated in Washington should consist of tax cuts, giving people more money to spend. Democrats in Congress want more of the money to go toward payments to unemployed workers and toward new spending programs the Democrats say will create jobs.
Over all, the American economy employed 132.2 million workers in September, down from a high of 132.7 million in March. The Labor Department revised its August numbers, saying that the economy had shed 84,000 jobs, not the 113,000 that the department originally reported. 
Still, said Stephen S. Roach, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Company, "These are two months of sickening declines in a row."
"It says we were in even worse shape than we had thought," added Mr. Roach, long one of Wall Street's most pessimistic economists.
Manufacturing has been hit the hardest, suffering primarily from steep cuts in corporate spending on new buildings, equipment and technology. Factory employment fell in September for the 14th consecutive month and has declined by 1.1 million jobs, or 6 percent, since July 2000.
In the weeks before Sept. 11, the malaise spread to the giant service sector, which accounts for more than 80 percent of jobs. Last month, services lost 102,000 jobs, the first reduction this year and also the largest drop -- other than a one-time aberration related to the employment of census workers -- since February 1991.
One of the few bright spots was health care. Hospitals, doctors' offices and other health care companies added 29,000 jobs, bringing their total to 10.4 million. Employment at hotels also rose slightly, in a clear sign of the report's pre-Sept. 11 time frame.
The report also confirmed that the downturn was now affecting less-educated, lower-paid workers more than it was earlier this year. 
After staying largely unchanged for most of the year, the unemployment rate for people without a high school diploma has risen to 7.8 percent, from 6.6 percent, since July. The jobless rate for college graduates rose from 1.6 percent to 2.2 percent between December and June but has only edged up to 2.4 percent since then.
The government considers only those who are jobless and actively looking for work to be unemployed.
In the weeks since the attacks the number of people filing for unemployment benefits has surged, to 528,000 from 431,000, its highest level in more than nine years. That suggests that the October unemployment rate will easily surpass 5 percent, economists said, putting it above that mark for the first time since early 1997.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in September"UNEMPLOYMENT DEMOGRAPHICS White: 4.3Black: 8.7Hispanic*: 6.4Men 20 and over: 4.3Women 20 and over: 4.4Teenagers (16-19): 14.7 OUT OF WORK (millions)Total: 7.0Lost job: 3.6Left job: 0.8Returning to labor market: 2.1New to labor market: 0.5 EMPLOYMENT TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmAug.: 132.4Sept.: 132.2 (Nonfarm) GoodsAug.: 25.0Sept.: 24.9 (Nonfarm) ServicesAug.: 107.4Sept.: 107.3 AgricultureAug.: 3.1Sept.: 3.2 SHARE OF POPULATION (percent) Work forceAug.: 63.4Sept.: 63.7 Labor force (workers and unemployed)Aug.: 66.6Sept.: 67.0 Graphs show:Civilian unemployment: 4.9 percent(Oct 2000-Sept. 2001) Household survey: 135.2 millionNonfarm payroll survey: 132.2 million(Oct 2000-Sept. 2001) All figures are seasonally adjusted. *Hispanics can be of any race. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); HIJACKING (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); RESTAURANTS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (56%) LABOR; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNEMPLOYMENT; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; WAGES AND SALARIES; WORKING HOURS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (70%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) ;LABOR DEPARTMENT 

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (70%); JPM (LSE) (70%); 8634 (TSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (70%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (70%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (70%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



186 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1058 words

HEADLINE: SHELF LIFE; 
Pleasure Domes Built of Giggles and Moonlight

BYLINE:  By Edward Rothstein 

 BODY:
 Once upon a time a great pleasure palace was built on the edge of the sea. Streets curled past onion domes and minarets; statues moved as if they were alive; great elephants shed their lumbering bulk as they plunged down enormous slides. At night the edges of the cupolas and balustrades were draped with what was said to have been "a huge mantle of light," a luminous -- almost lunar -- demonstration of magical powers. 
 Such was Luna Park built in Coney Island, Brooklyn, in 1903 by an entrepreneur and visionary, Fred Thompson. So remarkable was this first theme park that before long imitations sprang up throughout the United States. By 1915 there were Luna Parks in Berlin, Buenos Aires, Rome and Melbourne. Thompson dreamed of creating one along the Seine, giving Paris what he called its "first taste of American outdoor amusements," something that had to wait for the building of Euro Disney. 
But Luna Park was gone a few decades later, and Thompson's other grand project, the $3.5 million Hippodrome Theater on Sixth Avenue and 43rd Street in Manhattan, was demolished in 1939. By the end of his career as producer, architect, designer and entertainer, Thompson was bankrupt and broken, a pathetic dreamer of grandiose extravaganzas. It was as if he had taken a long ride downward on the giant electric teeter-totter he had invented. 
Now though, Woody Register, a professor of American Studies at Sewanee, the University of the South, has restored weighty significance to Thompson's flighty achievements. Mr. Register, adding to the growing academic literature about consumerism and culture, shows that Thompson represented a historic shift in American life. And despite some repetitions and exaggerations, Mr. Register's tale is vivid and compelling.
During the 19th century, Mr. Register argues, leisure was seen as an indulgence; industrial capitalism demanded renunciation of distracting pleasures. But Thompson created an "ethos of fun" that has extended into the present day. Thompson called Luna Park "the Biggest Playground on Earth"; Mr. Register says it "challenged the moral economy of the 19th century." 
It seems that this was precisely what Thompson intended. In 1901, for example, The Pan-American International Exhibition in Buffalo was meant as a solemn celebration of the values of "civilized progress" and was designed by the same architect who built the New York Public Library. But attendance was dismal until Thompson was brought in, declaring that "an exposition is not, nor should it be, a serious thing."
The public thrilled to novelties like human cannonballs, a marriage ceremony that took place in a sky-borne balloon, and 800 dancers on an open stage. He created "A Trip to the Moon," an early version of a Disney-type ride; the passengers' airplane rocked and tilted as scenery moved by, until the plane finally landed on a moon populated by midgets. 
"The trouble with this present age," Thompson said, "is too much work and too little play." He scorned architecture with "straight lines," which were, he said, "as hard and serious as baccalaureate sermons." And he celebrated, as Mr. Register argues, the Peter Pan view that we can all remain children. "We're all just tots grown," Thompson once wrote. "We're playing games and the toys may be the theater, the mart of trade, the stock ticker, the factory or the laboratory, but they're toys just the same."
It is no accident, Mr. Register argues, that it was around this time the toy industry began to grow, with purchases tripling between 1913 and 1919. So prevalent had stuffed animals become that some worried over their effects on the maternal instinct. Dolls were becoming so realistic, one woman was mistakenly accused of murder after she discarded two. 
This is remarkable stuff. Thompson's celebration of pleasure and play also anticipated in many ways some of the arguments about high and low culture still being made. But there are other themes touched upon by Mr. Register, primarily involving gender roles, that are less convincing. In addition many aspects of Thompson's enterprises were neither as pioneering nor as uniquely American as Mr. Register suggests. In European courts similarly extravagant displays and amusements were regular offerings. Thompson's efforts were so notable because for the first time these fantasies were offered to a working middle class.
But Mr. Register is right that something profound takes place in the midst of these forms of play. Play reflects the world, offering forms of escape and promises of mastery. 
In contemporary Disney parks -- the most obvious heirs to Thompson's vision -- every visitor passes through an idealized premodern village that is deliberately scaled down; perspectives are altered to create a sense of intimacy. The rides do just the opposite; they attempt to dwarf the merely human in regions whose very names suggest the untamed or unknown, like Frontierland or Tomorrowland. In these rides, in the midst of an unpredictable rush of sensation, everything seems out of control. But the rider survives and is eventually returned to that comfortable, miniaturized town, with its promises of control and order. We can always come home.
There is comfort in Disney, and a certain amount of confidence. Thompson's vision, however, was more distracting but perhaps less reassuring. 
In one of his theatrical productions at the Hippodrome, "A Yankee Circus on Mars," for example, a barker onstage offers the pleasures of paradise to a town of prospective customers. But he is interrupted by disgruntled workers who want to strike for unpaid wages; even the sheriff arrives to auction the bankrupt circus's property. At that moment a spaceship arrives, bringing the entire company to Mars for a command performance. Hundreds of elaborately costumed Martians dance about, elephants are driven onstage wearing goggles, and the Yankee circus performs to great acclaim. We can always flee home. 
Each fantasy offers pleasures, but Thompson's escape from disorder and unrest offers less enduring comfort. Maybe that's why his fantasies faltered on the eve of World War I and why similar fantasies of escape and distraction may also change in the next few years.

THE KID OF CONEY ISLAND
Fred Thompson and the Rise of American Amusements
By Woody Register
Illustrated. Oxford University Press. 400 pages. $30.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fred Thompson's dream: Luna Park at Coney Island, draped by "a huge mantle of light." (Museum of the City of New York/From "The Kid From Coney Island" by Woody Register) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRADE SHOWS (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); LITERATURE (69%); EXHIBITIONS (69%); DANCERS (66%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (63%); LIBRARIES (60%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS; AMUSEMENT PARKS; LUNA PARK (CONEY ISLAND); HISTORY 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); EURO DISNEY SCA (56%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); EDL (PAR) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (56%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (56%)

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, EDWARD; REGISTER, WOODY; THOMPSON, FRED (AMUSEMENT PARK CREATOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (57%); PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); EARTH'S MOON (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); AUSTRALIA (57%); FRANCE (56%) CONEY ISLAND (NYC)

TITLE: KID OF CONEY ISLAND, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



187 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: A Flawed Stimulus Plan 

 BODY:
Responding to the demands of Republicans in Congress, President Bush has laid out a stimulus package that relies in large part on ineffective, irresponsible and regressive tax cuts. He gave short shrift to Democratic demands that the stimulus contain government spending designed to boost the economy as well.
 For the first time, the president asked for permanent abolition of the corporate alternative minimum tax, which forces companies that can mask their profits with lots of deductions to pay at least some taxes. There is no reason these businesses should be helped more than companies that are actually losing money. The latter pay no taxes and would not be helped at all. It is also far from clear that any change in corporate income tax rates would actually stimulate the economy. Most important, there is absolutely no reason to use permanent tax changes to battle a temporary economic slowdown. 
 Mr. Bush also repeated his request for acceleration of the huge package of income tax reductions he won from Congress earlier this year. Yet these cuts overwhelmingly favor high-income Americans, who feel the pain of a recession least and whose spending is least influenced by tax cuts. On the positive side, the president did recommend that low- to moderate-income people receive some relief as well, presumably through the payroll tax. A team of top Wall Street economists speaking at the Council on Foreign Relations yesterday morning cited that policy as the most effective way to stimulate the economy.
The spending portion of the president's package -- some $60 billion in all -- does not seem adequate to stimulate the economy quickly. Most of the $45 billion already allocated for recovery, counterterrorist efforts and the airline bailout, including $11 billion for a defense appropriation that was originally requested by the White House last summer, will not take effect until next year. Much of the remaining $15 billion would be used to extend cash assistance and health coverage for workers left unemployed by the terrorist attacks. These benefits will give people extra time to find better jobs, but most of the money will not begin to help the economy directly until March 2002, when current benefits run out. To boost the economy, spending must have a more immediate impact.
So far, the president has said next to nothing about how he would pay for the stimulus. This omission is particularly irresponsible given his fondness for permanent tax cuts that would hurt the government's finances for years to come. Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate and House Budget Committees agree that a stimulus should be temporary and should not push up long-term interest rates.
Congress should reject permanent tax cuts out of hand, and consider rolling back -- not speeding up -- the regressive parts of the president's 10-year tax plan. Even a truly temporary stimulus should not be allowed to saddle the nation with tens of billions in future debts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (75%); CORPORATE TAX (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (70%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (63%); TERRORISM (63%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (50%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CORPORATIONS; TAX CREDITS 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



188 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: A NATION CHALLENGED: THE ECONOMY; 
Bush Wants More Tax Cuts In Effort to Help Economy

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
President Bush called on Congress today to use nearly all the money remaining for the proposed economic recovery plan for at least $60 billion of tax cuts. Democrats immediately replied that increased government spending to create jobs and help the unemployed should be a big part of the package.
 "Congress doesn't need to spend any more money," Mr. Bush said. "What they need to do is cut taxes." 
 Mr. Bush made his statement after the White House came under pressure from conservative Republicans in Congress to head off further spending increases and again take up the cause of tax cuts as the best remedy for the weakened economy.
Democrats said the president's remarks undercut the emphasis on compromise and bipartisanship that marked the early stages of the debate over how to address the economy's yearlong deterioration and the economic aftershocks of the terrorist attacks.
"Unfortunately, I fear that some of the more extreme voices in Congress are now pressuring the administration to take a more divisive approach to the stimulus legislation," said Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic majority leader. 
Mr. Bush said on Wednesday that he would support an economic stimulus package of $60 billion to $75 billion beyond what Congress had spent in the weeks immediately after the attacks. He sent Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill to Capitol Hill to begin negotiating the components of the package.
On Thursday, a senior Treasury Department official told reporters that the administration would support dividing the overall stimulus package roughly equally between tax cuts and spending. 
But the official said all the spending programs already passed by Congress in response to the attacks -- including those agreed to before Mr. Bush made his proposal for another $60 billion to $75 billion of fiscal stimulus -- should count in dividing the money between tax cuts and spending. Those programs, he said, included more than $40 billion to be spent this year on reconstruction, relief, the military and the bailout of the airline industry.
Today, Mr. Bush said that Congress had already authorized spending of $60 billion to deal with the effects of the attacks, and that it now should pass tax cuts of at least that amount. His figure appeared to include money that has been appropriated for military and civilian uses that will not be spent for another year or two and that was not intended specifically to help the economy.
"I propose that the United States Congress, as quickly as possible, pass tax relief equal to or a little bit greater than the monies that we have already appropriated" for spending programs, Mr. Bush said in an appearance before reporters in the Rose Garden.
Mr. Bush singled out his proposal to accelerate the personal income tax rate reductions contained in the tax bill he signed into law in June. Under that bill, most income tax rates would decline in 2004 and again in 2006.
The president said Congress should also speed up the schedule under which businesses can write off the cost of investing in new factories and equipment, and eliminate the corporate alternative minimum tax, which requires companies to pay a bigger tax bill when their profits fall than they would have to otherwise.
For Mr. Bush, negotiating a bipartisan package of measures to help the economy has been politically treacherous from the start. 
On one hand, he has had to be careful to show his concern over rising layoffs and the likelihood of a recession. He made his appearance today after the Labor Department reported that employers had shed nearly 200,000 jobs last month even before the terrorist attacks.
On the other hand, Mr. Bush has also had to mind his conservative base of support.
Conservative Republicans had become increasingly and publicly agitated in recent days over Mr. Bush's handling of the economic plan, saying he was giving in too readily to Democrats in the name of avoiding a partisan fight.
In an indication of their discontent with the direction of the bipartisan negotiations being conducted by Mr. O'Neill, Republican leaders in the House said today that they planned to draw up a tax-cut package of their own and begin voting on it next week. They said they had not decided on its components, but suggested that it could be as big as $75 billion.
Republicans had told Mr. Bush of their concerns in meetings at the White House on Thursday, Congressional aides said.
Democrats said that they understood the political pressures on Mr. Bush from his party's right wing, and that they hoped he would not abandon his pledge to seek a bipartisan agreement on how to deal with the economy. But they also made clear that they would fight any effort to turn the stimulus package into a new round of Republican tax cuts.
"I think it is too early to be putting numbers on spending versus tax reduction," said Senator Max Baucus, Democrat of Montana, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
Democrats said Mr. Bush's tax proposals would focus their benefits on upper-income people who need the help the least, and would provide too much assistance to companies at the expense of unemployed people.
"Our top priority in Congress must be to guarantee that workers in every state receive the unemployment insurance benefits, health care coverage and job training they need in this time of crisis, and not tax breaks for wealthy corporations," said Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush, with Treasury Secretary Paul H. O'Neill, called yesterday for more tax cuts. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BAILOUTS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); TERRORISM (68%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (68%); AIRLINES (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; LABOR 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); TOM DASCHLE (57%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); O'NEILL, PAUL H (SEC) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



189 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Requests Tax Cuts From Rest of Stimulus Plan
President Bush called on Congress to use nearly all the money remaining for the proposed economic recovery plan for at least $60 billion of tax cuts.
 Democrats immediately replied that increased government spending to create jobs and help the unemployed should be a big part of the package. Page B7. 

Markets Rise On Bush's Comments
Stocks rose modestly after President Bush urged Congress to approve $60 billion in tax cuts. The Nasdaq composite index advanced 7.99 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,605.30. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 58.89 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 9,119.77, and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.75 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,071.38. C4.

Enron Plans to Sell Oregon Utility
Enron is planning to announce on Monday that it has agreed to sell Portland General Electric to another Oregon utility, Northwest Natural Gas, for about $1.9 billion in cash and stock, executives close to the deal said. C4.

Assets of Failed Bank Are Bought
The assets of Offroad Capital, a failed online investment bank, have been purchased by the owners of New York Private Placement Exchange, an electronic trading network for shares of companies that are not public. C14.

Utility to Emerge From Bankruptcy
A federal judge approved a settlement to keep Southern California Edison out of bankruptcy, by having customers continue paying for at least two more years the higher rates that were imposed last May. The settlement also requires Edison shareholders to forgo $1.2 billion in dividends over three years. A12.

Airlines Match Delta Fare Cuts
Most major airlines matched Delta Air Lines in cutting fares as much as 50 percent on routes worldwide. C4.

Loss Widens at Advanced Micro
Advanced Micro Devices said a price war with Intel drove down third-quarter revenue 22 percent and widened its net loss to as much as $220 million. "In an effort to make up for the performance deficiencies of computers based on its Pentium 4 processors, Intel resorted to aggressive pricing and large, cash-backed marketing programs," W. J. Sanders III, Advanced Micro's chairman said. C4.

More Time for 911 Cellphone Plan
The Federal Communications Commission gave five mobile phone companies more time to start installing gear that pinpoints the location of customers dialing 911. C4.

Russia Unlikely to Cut Oil Output
Russia, the world's second-largest oil exporter, is unlikely to reduce output or even slow its growth, despite pressure from the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to fall in line with its efforts to shore up prices by restricting supply, analysts said. C2.

Newport News-Grumman to Talk
Newport News Shipbuilding, the target of a takeover battle between General Dynamics and Northrop Grumman, said it would begin talks with Northrop Grumman. Newport News said it remained committed to its existing agreement to be acquired by General Dynamics but that the bid from Northrop Grumman might now be superior because of a recent rally in the stock price of Northrop. C3.

Columbus Day Closings
Though stock markets are open Monday, the Treasury bond market, commodity trading in some financial contracts, government offices and many banks are closed in observance of Columbus Day. They will reopen on Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,119.77 up 58.89Nasdaq composite -- 1,605.30 up 7.9910-yr. Treasury yield -- 4.50% down 0.01The euro -- $0.9180 up 0.0021The dollar -- 120.34 yen down 0.30 Graph shows daily closes of the Nasdaq composite from January through September. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Market)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); AIRLINES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PRICE CUTTING (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (77%); NEW ISSUES (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); JOB CREATION (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (71%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); SHIPBUILDING (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (66%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (66%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (56%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); PORTLAND GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (56%); INTEL CORP (53%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING & DRY DOCK CO (50%); NEWPORT NEWS SHIPBUILDING EMPLOYEES' CREDIT UNION (50%); GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP (50%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (50%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (66%); AMD (NYSE) (66%); AMD (FRA) (66%); POR (NYSE) (56%); INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); GD (NYSE) (50%); NOC (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (66%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (56%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (56%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (56%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); NAICS336992 MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE, TANK & TANK COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (50%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (50%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (50%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (56%) OREGON, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



190 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2153 words

PERSON: Mike Mansfield 

HEADLINE: Mike Mansfield, Longtime Leader Of Senate Democrats, Dies at 98 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Oct. 5 

 BODY:
Mike Mansfield, who served as Senate majority leader longer than anyone else and was instrumental in the 1960's and 1970's in the enactment of legislation on civil rights, social policy and foreign affairs that changed the course of the country, died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. He was 98.
 Mr. Mansfield lived in Washington and went to his office at Goldman Sachs Group almost every weekday until last week, when he went into the hospital, said his assistant, Barbara Hickey. 
 A Democrat from Montana, Mr. Mansfield was in the House of Representatives for 10 years and in the Senate for 24, 16 of them as majority leader. He left the Senate in 1977, ready to retire to Montana. But he was quickly named ambassador to Japan, and he held that post for 10 years, also longer than anyone else. 
In Congress, where bombast and pomposity are common, Mr. Mansfield was unusually modest and self-effacing.
"He's the most decent man I've ever met in public life," said former Senator Hugh D. Scott Jr. of Pennsylvania, who was the Republican minority leader when Mr. Mansfield retired as majority leader.
In Japan, where he served both Democratic and Republican presidents, Mr. Mansfield was a revered figure. He did not hesitate to tell the Japanese when he thought American patience was running out. But he also spoke out when he thought Americans had criticized Japan unfairly.
A few days after his 95th birthday, in March 1998, Mr. Mansfield expressed in an interview his philosophy of moderation and accommodation, which characterized his career as a politician and as an envoy. 
"Differences can be bridged, solutions can be found, concessions can be made," he said. "It's much better to take an inch than to take nothing at all. I don't believe that winning is everything, though it's very desirable. I don't think there's anything wrong in losing if you do it the right way."
At the time of the interview, Mr. Mansfield was vigorous and informed, with a straight back, a quick step and a strong voice. The week after his 95th birthday, he inaugurated a lecture series on leadership sponsored by the Senate Republican leader, Trent Lott of Mississippi.
Mr. Mansfield's distaste for partisan warfare often frustrated his more aggressive Democratic colleagues in the Senate, and his brand of leadership sometimes seemed ineffective compared with the strong-arm style of his predecessor as majority leader, Lyndon B. Johnson.
But after President John F. Kennedy was assassinated and Vice President Johnson became president, Mr. Mansfield guided the Senate toward passage of a spate of civil rights, health, education and antipoverty legislation that Johnson called the Great Society.
His leadership was essential in the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, which outlawed discrimination in all public accommodations, and the Voting Rights Act of 1965, which made possible the widespread participation of Southern blacks in state and federal elections.
Ross K. Baker, a political scientist at Rutgers University, calls this period "one of the golden ages of the U.S. Senate." Senator Mansfield's legacy, Professor Baker said, is that he sapped the influence of the inner club of a few powerful senators and "allowed the modern Senate of equals to emerge."
The current Senate majority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota, said today, "The Senate never had a finer leader."
Mr. Mansfield had strong personal views on many subjects, and he never hesitated to express them, even when he was at odds with presidents and many of his Democratic colleagues.
This was especially true in the war in Vietnam. He supported the increasing United States involvement in Vietnam in 1961 and 1962, but became an implacable critic of the American position after the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem of South Vietnam in November 1963.
Year after year, he backed legislation to withdraw troops and stop the bombing. In 1973, he was a principal architect of the War Powers Act, which was designed to check the president's ability to commit American troops abroad without the consent of Congress.
Mr. Mansfield often said he was proudest of the central role he played in winning Congressional approval of legislation that led, in 1971, to ratification of the 26th Amendment, which gave 18-year-olds the right to vote.
Throughout it all, he was remarkably taciturn, his statements often limited to "Yep," "Nope," "Maybe" or "Can't say."
In the 1998 interview, Mr. Mansfield said he worried about the political polarization that had developed in the country generally and in the Senate especially. 
"I've always felt," he said, "that the true strength of the Senate lay in the center, not on the right and not on the left, but with those people who could see both sides and were not so convicted of their own assumptions that they wouldn't listen to the other side."
Less than a year after he retired from the Senate, Mr. Mansfield, at 74, was named by President Jimmy Carter to be ambassador to Japan. In 1981, when Ronald Reagan became president, Mr. Mansfield began packing his belongings. 
In the interview, he described what happened next:
"The phone rang at 2 o'clock one morning, and I wondered who the hell is calling at this hour. It was President Reagan. He said, 'I'd like you to stay on.' I said, 'I'm half packed, ready to go.' He said, 'Unpack. I want you to stay on.' So I said, 'Hang on a minute,' and I woke up Maureen. And she said, 'Yes,' and so I said, 'Yes,' and so we stayed on for eight more years."
In Tokyo, Mr. Mansfield presided over some tense times in a relationship that he liked to call "the world's most important, bar none." In his tenure, the United States and Japan clashed over trade issues involving items including automobiles and television sets, telecommunications equipment and beef.
Mr. Mansfield also argued the American side in disputes over whether Japan hurt Western security interests by selling machine tools to the Soviet Union and differed with the Japanese on just how much Japan should spend to help its economy, pay for its own defense and dispense in foreign aid.
In many ways a prototypical rough-hewn, laconic Westerner, Mr. Mansfield was born in the East and had a hard, sad childhood.
Michael Joseph Mansfield was born on March 16, 1903, in New York City, the son of Irish immigrants. His father, Patrick, was a porter in a Greenwich Village hotel. His mother, the former Josephine O'Brien, died when he was 3, and the boy was sent to live with an aunt and uncle who owned a grocery store in Great Falls, Mont.
As soon as he was able, Michael was working, pushing his uncle's delivery cart around Great Falls. He was an unhappy boy and ran away from home several times. "I hopped freight cars and got sent home twice, and once I spent the night in jail," he recalled.
After lying to recruiters about his age -- he was a month shy of 15 at the time -- he joined the Navy shortly before the United States entered World War I and served in the Atlantic. After the war, he served in the Army for a year, and in 1920 he enlisted for two years in the Marine Corps. The Marines sent him to the Philippines, Japan and China, awakening a lifelong interest in the Far East.
Returning to Montana in 1922, Mr. Mansfield worked as a "mucker" in the copper mines of Butte, using a pick and shovel to clear away rock and debris in shafts half a mile underground. 
In Butte he met a schoolteacher, Maureen Hayes, who persuaded him to enter the Montana School of Mines, though he had not finished the eighth grade.
Mr. Mansfield enrolled as a special student and took college courses and high school correspondence courses simultaneously. He and Miss Hayes were married in 1932. The next year, at 30, he graduated from the University of Montana in Missoula with a degree in history and began teaching there. 
Mr. Mansfield always said that his wife was responsible for his successful career. 
"She did the pushing and pressing that got me where I am today," he said in 1998. "I get the credit. She does the work. It isn't fair. She cashed in her life insurance to get me through school. She gave up her job as a high school teacher to follow me in my career."
Mrs. Mansfield died last year. He is survived by their daughter, Anne Morris, and a granddaughter. 
As a popular professor of Far Eastern and Latin American affairs, Mr. Mansfield built up a network of former students, and they helped him throughout his political career.
In his first campaign, in 1940, he finished last in a three-man primary for the Democratic nomination for a seat in the House of Representatives. But in 1942 he won a close contest for the First Congressional District seat vacated when Jeannette Rankin, a Republican, retired.
In the decade he spent in the House, Mr. Mansfield's voting record included support for extensions of price controls, a higher minimum wage, the Marshall Plan to aid European recovery after World War II, economic aid to Turkey and Greece and immigration for people displaced in World War II. He opposed restrictions on labor unions, the peacetime draft, money for the House Un-American Activities Committee and the 22d Amendment, which limits presidents to two terms in office.
When Mr. Mansfield challenged Senator Zales N. Ecton, a Republican, in the 1952 senatorial race in Montana, Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, the flamboyant Red hunter from Wisconsin, went to Montana to campaign for Mr. Ecton. Senator McCarthy said Mr. Mansfield was "either stupid or a dupe" of the Communists and was guilty of coddling them. But Mr. Mansfield won the Senate seat despite the landslide victory of the Republican presidential candidate, Dwight D. Eisenhower.
Four years after entering the Senate, he was made assistant majority leader under Johnson. "I didn't want the job," he said in 1998, "but they kept insisting. Later I learned that they needed me because they didn't want an all-Southern leadership, so I took it. But Johnson did everything. I didn't have a thing to do. It was just a title."
But when Johnson became vice president in 1961, Mr. Mansfield was in position to become majority leader. 
Although some of Mr. Mansfield's colleagues criticized his style as lacking in vigor, he resisted suggestions to be tougher. "In the first place, I couldn't do it," he said. "In the second, if I were to do it and I got away with it, the result would be temporary. Sooner or later they'd just tell you to go to hell and do what they wanted to anyway. I like to treat the members as I would like them to treat me."
Mr. Mansfield was never known as an orator. But many Americans' sharpest memory of him is the brief eulogy in simple words and spare sentences he delivered for John F. Kennedy as the slain president lay in state in the Rotunda of the Capitol.
The eulogy began: "There was a sound of laughter; in a moment, it was no more. And so she took a ring from her finger and placed it in his hands."
After Johnson became president and steadily increased the American combat role in Vietnam, relations between him and Mr. Mansfield began to cool. Mr. Mansfield said the war in Vietnam convinced him that "Congress had handed its power over to the president on a silver platter" and for that reason he co-sponsored the war powers bill of 1973.
Through his close friendships with many Asian leaders, Mr. Mansfield helped pave the way for President Richard M. Nixon's 1972 visit to China, the first step toward the restoration of diplomatic relations between the countries. But Mr. Mansfield criticized Mr. Nixon for continuing the war in Vietnam.
When the Watergate scandal began to unfold in 1973, Mr. Mansfield became a leading opponent of the Nixon administration. "To excise Watergate and what it implies before it becomes fatal to liberty is a fundamental responsibility of this government," he said. "The people of this nation do not want government by the whim or the will of the most powerful and influential."
He was a staunch advocate of gun control, an unpopular position with many voters in Montana. Nevertheless, they returned him to the Senate in 1958, 1964 and 1970, each time with a winning margin that exceeded 60 percent. Had he chosen to run in 1976 there seemed no doubt he would have won again.
After serving in Japan, he returned to Washington at 85 and became a senior adviser on East Asian affairs at Goldman Sachs, the investment banking firm.
President Carter first asked Mr. Mansfield to be ambassador to Mexico. But he turned it down, he said, because "Maureen doesn't like high altitudes." But because of his longtime interest in the Far East, he accepted the post in Japan. 
The Japanese, who especially respect diplomats who have been seasoned by age and experience, enthusiastically welcomed him to Tokyo. A newspaper carried an editorial headlined, "A Giant Walks Among Us."
Mr. Mansfield's response was typical of him. "I'm no giant," he said. "I'm just a fellow embarking on a new career."

CORRECTION-DATE: October 13, 2001

 CORRECTION:
An obituary last Saturday about Mike Mansfield, the longest-serving Senate majority leader, misstated the timing of the lie about his age that allowed him to join the Navy before he was 15. It was after the United States entered World War I, not before.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mike Mansfield was the Senate majority leader for 16 years. (George Tames/The New York Times, 1969)(pg. A1); Mike Mansfield in 1975 with Robert C. Byrd, his successor as majority leader. In 1977, Mr. Mansfield began a new public life as envoy to Japan. (George Tames/The New York Times); Mike Mansfield conferring in 1961 with Lyndon B. Johnson, then vice president, who preceded him as the Senate majority leader. (United Press International)(pg. C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DISCRIMINATION (77%); ELECTION LAW (72%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (72%); ASSASSINATION (65%); ARMIES (57%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESS (US); SENATE (US) 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (72%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (72%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (72%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (72%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (72%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); ROBERT BYRD (58%); TRENT LOTT (58%) ROSENBAUM, DAVID E 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (94%) UNITED STATES; MONTANA; JAPAN; 

CATEGORY: Politics and Government (U.S.) 

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



191 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 6, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Shares Advance on Prospect Of $60 Billion in Tax Cuts

BYLINE:  By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
The stock market rose modestly yesterday after President Bush urged Congress to approve $60 billion in tax cuts to help shore up the economy after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11.
 "We're very, very excited about the fiscal stimulus package," said Arthur Hogan, chief market analyst at Jefferies & Company. "Any time we hear mention of it, it sort of puts a bit back into the marketplace. The combination of fiscal and monetary policy shows that the government is going to do whatever it takes to give stabilization back to the United States economy, and it reminds us that we will get out of the economic downturn sooner rather than later." 
 The market's gains came after a midafternoon turnaround, spurred by the president's proposal. Earlier, stocks were pulled down in part by Sun Microsystems, which snapped a two-day streak of positive earnings news from technology companies when it warned that it would not meet its financial forecasts. 
In addition, investors were provided with evidence that the economy before the attacks was weaker than previously thought. The government reported that more jobs were lost in September than in any month since the 1991 recession.
The Dow Jones industrial average gained 58.89 points, or 0.7 percent, to close at 9,119.77. The technology-laden Nasdaq composite index advanced 7.99 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,605.30; the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.75 points, or 0.2 percent, to 1,071.38.
Technology stocks surged earlier in the week after Dell Computer and Cisco Systems said they would meet Wall Street's earnings estimates. But analysts warned against a quick and continued rebound in technology stocks, saying that in the wake of the terrorist attacks the economic outlook for the remainder of the year continued to be bleak. 
Still, a good part of yesterday's afternoon rally came after investors digested Sun Microsystem's economic outlook, in which the company said it expected to be profitable in its fiscal fourth quarter.
"Sun making the statement that they should turn profitable in their fiscal fourth quarter provided a little lift in that there's light at the end of the tunnel for some of these tech names," said Owen Fitzpatrick, head of the United States equity group at Bankers Trust Private Banking. "These names have been beaten down so much that people don't want to miss out because they know how quickly they can move." 
Sun Microsystems, which makes computer servers, gained 58 cents, to $9.87, despite warning that it would post an operating loss of 5 to 7 cents a share for its fiscal first quarter. Wall Street expected the company to lose 4 cents a share, according to Thomson Financial/First Call. The company also said its revenue would fall beneath analysts' estimates and come in at $2.7 billion to $2.9 billion.
Advanced Micro Devices lost 40 cents, to $8.60, after it also said it would fall short of analysts' forecasts. The company expects to post a loss of 26 to 31 cents a share for the third quarter. Analysts polled by Thomson Financial/First Call had expected a loss of 12 cents a share. 
Gateway showed resilience, gaining 15 cents, to $5, even though it said it would not meet earnings forecasts for the third quarter. Company officials said they expected to return to profitability by the fourth quarter.
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note rose 1/32, to a price of 103 29/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 4.50 percent from 4.51 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond fell 5/32, to 100 28/32. The bond's yield rose to 5.32 percent from 5.31 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HIJACKING (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); COMPANY LOSSES (71%); NETWORK SERVERS (64%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); PENTAGON BUILDING; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; FINANCES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: JEFFERIES & CO INC (72%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (60%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (56%)

TICKER: CSCO (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) ;DAY, SHERRI; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON (DC)

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001 



192 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1442 words

HEADLINE: Generation Gaps 

BYLINE:  By William H. Pritchard; William H. Pritchard's most recent book is "Updike: America's Man of Letters."

 BODY:
 THE WORLD BELOW
By Sue Miller.
275 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $25.
 FIFTEEN years ago, Sue Miller's first novel elicited admiring reviews and a sense that she was a novelist to watch. In its focus on two modes of love, erotic and maternal, "The Good Mother" inaugurated Miller's exploration of these often conflicting emotions in the work that succeeded it: a collection of stories and five novels, of which "The World Below" is the latest. Six novels in 15 years is an impressive if not an exceptional rate of production; what's exceptional about Miller's work is its unfailingly artful, continuously resourceful shaping of a fictional world. The opening words of this book -- Imagine it" -- are a challenge she has repeatedly risen to, yet never more affectingly than here.
For Miller, as for any novelist, the main challenge to imagination lies in creating and maintaining a compelling narrative voice. In "The Good Mother," it is a first-person voice, old-fashioned in its resistance to the "artistic" fanciness of sentences that conduct themselves too exquisitely. It is also a voice characterized by inventiveness of incident and a complicated explicitness, not without irony, about sexual matters. The divorced mother inspires readerly trust through her ability to be evenhanded about men in general while she struggles with particular men. From the very beginning of her career, Miller has managed to avoid the potentially self-congratulatory knowingness of the "liberated" woman since she and her heroines have always been too wary and humorous to be taken in by grand ideas of how the sexes should behave.
In the novels that followed "The Good Mother," Miller continued to treat domestic conflict with an artistry that didn't compromise on immediacy, sometimes of a shocking and violent kind. These books mined new social territory -- from civil rights struggles to communal living -- while visiting the spirits of different places: forays into life in old, partly abandoned New England villages joined with informed presentations of her habitual Cambridge-Boston milieu.
At 275 pages, "The World Below" is one of Miller's shorter novels, but in some ways it is her most ambitious, since the action spans seven generations -- although the pointed economy with which it uses them has nothing in common with the chronological distance from past to present. The novel's daring lies in Miller's use of two women at the center of the narrative: Catherine Hubbard, twice divorced mother of three, the first-person voice of life in the present, and her grandmother, Georgia Rice Holbrooke, the voice of a past time who, after Catherine's discovery of the dead woman's journals, becomes a living presence in her granddaughter's imagination. But Miller extends the generational stretch, in beautifully symmetrical fashion, by opening the novel with Georgia's grandparents on their way to attend the funeral of her mother and drawing to a close with the birth of Catherine's granddaughter. What might have been perilously close to a heartwarming tale about someone discovering the complexities of her forebears is thus choreographed into an elaborate sequence of steps, this way and that, as past and future are gathered together.
Early in the book, upon returning as inheritor to her grandparents' house in a small town in southern Vermont, Catherine takes an early-morning walk: "As I passed the graceful, silent houses, I stared at them. I could still feel it -- the same charm, the same pull the town had for me when I'd come here before, something that had to do with the pull of my grandparents' lives too, the promise of some ordered and old-fashioned way of living that I knew full well I sentimentalized: a world I had created in my imagination, where words like 'lilac' and 'fidelity' had a similar weight and power."
The pastoral impulse toward a simpler time, a "back then" when words named things truly, is a recurrent impulse in Miller's fiction, even as that impulse is recognized as a simplification of, say, the "sordid adult complications," the "messier and more ambiguous world" of the San Francisco Catherine has left behind. The yearning is vividly expressed by a moment she remembers from the spring after her mother died, when she went east to live with her grandparents.
A sudden storm comes up, and her grandparents work together in the yard to get the "wildly flapping laundry" off the line, folding sheets "with practiced skill" as the lightning hits and the rain pelts down. Catherine has filed away this picture of a marriage's harmonious work: "their quick mirroring dance, the arms lifting at the same time as they approached each other, lowering as they stepped back, the magic of the wild white cloth growing smaller and smaller between them on the dark grass." To the child looking on, it seemed like "the purest form of love" -- like T. S. Eliot's notion of the "still point" without which "there would be no dance, and there is only the dance."
Unlike Eliot's somber gravity, however, Miller's novelistic tone is varied and shifting, serious but humorously flexible in adjusting to changing situations. The most important of these is the developing story of Georgia's stay, as a young woman, in a Maine sanitarium and her marriage, soon after her release, to the doctor who sent her there. The story, however, is more complicated than this, and it is only after reading Georgia's diaries that Catherine learns her grandmother took as lover another patient at the sanitarium, then saw him shipped west to die. So the original, wished-for discovery of a simpler way of living, which Catherine had idealized for her grandparents, is not without its ambiguous, messy complications.
This is just one of the many worlds below that are identified by the novel's title: as Catherine's life in Vermont unfolds, her grandmother's is also unfolding, "running steady as a buried stream under mine." There is as well a submerged bitterness that she remembers occasionally surfacing in her grandparents' lives, a sexual current that is troubled rather than steady. There is, further, as a kind of metaphorical conceit, the world below that Catherine once discovered while fishing with her grandfather, where something glimpsed beneath the water's surface looks like a submerged town, the result of a dam that flooded the river. It's another instance of how, for Catherine, for all of us, everything seems "lovely and lost and precious" when it is no longer available except in the imagination. Proust and Randall Jarrell may be imagined to nod assent.
Still, such thematic and metaphorical connections, easy enough for any alert reader to make, are not really what's most enlivening in this and Miller's other novels. Her solidity of specification comes in the care and fullness -- the details -- with which she works things up: the daily routine of the sanitarium, for example, with its weeks of silence and immobility for the newly entered patient; the arrangements on the sleeping porch Georgia and five other women inhabit; the gossip and physical contact among the patients. Or the neonatal intensive care unit where Catherine first sees her granddaughter. There is a perfectly rendered car accident on a San Francisco highway and a frustrating visit to the Quabbin Reservoir, where Catherine fails to find the submerged world that she remembers. There is, in both Georgia's and Catherine's lives, the pressure of sexual desire and its satisfaction, or not. Miller has never written better about love and lust, embodied both in Georgia as a young virgin and in Catherine as a 52-year-old able to joke with her lover "about the sense of hungry sorrow with which middle-aged lovemaking begins."
At the root of it all are the sentences themselves, which, without fuss, put the world before us, both above and below: a mess of kitchen breakfast dishes unwashed, "the grease congealed, the skin of the syrup pools lightly puckering with the unseen motion of the air"; a quarrel with a departing husband bringing "the satisfying explosive noise" of glasses hitting the floor; the "little bruised face" and "lashless lids" of a premature baby on a ventilator. Increasingly, Sue Miller's work belongs at the top of the novel of domestic realism, of the relations between men and women, of hungry generations treading one another down but taking some pleasure in the interplay. Her achievement is to have portrayed this in language that for all its incidental poetry makes us also feel that the poetry isn't what matters, that her stories are told by employing, as Wordsworth put it, "Words / Which speak of nothing more than what we are."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Rob Shepperson) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (93%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (92%); WRITERS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); GRANDPARENTS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (52%) NORTHEAST USA (58%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



193 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1125 words

HEADLINE: Analyze This, Pronto 

BYLINE:  By Andrew Solomon; Andrew Solomon's most recent book is "The Noonday Demon: An Atlas of Depression."

 BODY:
 OUT OF ITS MIND
Psychiatry in Crisis: A Call for Reform.
By J. Allan Hobson and Jonathan A. Leonard.
Illustrated. 292 pp. Cambridge, Mass.:
Perseus Publishing. $26.
 Hippocrates, in the fifth century B.C., declared that mental illness was a medical problem based on an organic dysfunction of the brain, which could best be addressed with oral remedies. Plato argued fiercely against Hippocrates, described mental illness as a philosophical problem, maintained that character was determined by early experience rather than by biology and believed that cure was to be achieved through reasoned discourse; he dismissed doctors who addressed themselves to the subject as "mere artisans." The divide shifted slightly in the Middle Ages: after Augustine, some saw mental illness as a religious problem, and thought that madmen were possessed and in need of exorcisms; others thought that crazy people suffered from illness and needed sympathy and medical intervention. The split in modern psychiatry -- between the brain scientists and the humanists, and hence between those who favor medication and those inclined toward introspection and talking therapies -- is hardly the novelty that recent commentators, including the authors of "Out of Its Mind," would have us believe. It is an expression of a mind-body duality that is one of the eternal problems of Western self-perception.
Now, however, not only is the division particularly acute, but also, dishearteningly, one side seems to be winning. There are two reasons for this. First, we have had such visible progress in the domain of psychomedication that the rest of our knowledge tends to be overshadowed by the new technology. Second, we are in the era of the H.M.O., and economic pressure favors the least expensive treatment, which is medicine, prescribed as rapidly as possible. Because the medications are so advanced now, we are probably giving effective treatment to a lot of people for whom there simply was no effective treatment 25 years ago. But we have lost caretaking skills, and are in consequence neglecting and abandoning a tremendous number of people who might once have had the support they require to function.
J. Allan Hobson and Jonathan A. Leonard set out to catalog the things that are going wrong and then to write a prescription for fixing them all. While they're at it, they run through a layman's guide to modern brain science, some personal theories about the definition of psychosis, a bit of grandstanding social theory and an appreciation for particular clinics where Hobson worked. It's hard to disentangle this macrame of material, but Hobson, a professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School, and Leonard, a medical writer, do get at most of the really crucial problems with psychiatry today. 
As they lay it out, students are by and large interested either in personality, in which case they become psychologists, or in the technical workings of the brain, in which case they become neurologists. Psychiatry, where these two interests meet, is a second-rate enterprise in which middling professionals patch together prescription plans on the basis of 15-minute interviews. Meanwhile, not only the medicine but also the humanism has become more and more technical, as communication skills have steadily declined. Many psychiatrists wave the flag for their pet methodologies, whether group therapy or cognitive-behavioral therapy or interpersonal therapy or psychopharmaceutical intervention or psychoanalysis. 
But as Hobson and Leonard point out, patients are highly individual, each requiring an individual program of care drawn from multiple branches of learning and negotiated and maintained through extended interaction. Though some patients receive both therapy from a psychologist and medication from a psychiatrist, there is generally no meaningful coordination. These problems are acute for patients with mild to moderate illness. For patients with severe illness, they are worse than acute. Institutionalization, though overused in the past, is now underused, and the psychiatrists who work with refractory cases in mental hospitals are undertrained and undervalued. And in many instances, the effect of the patients' rights movement has been to abandon to illnesses people whose symptoms include an inability to make sound choices. 
While these are the problems that most concern Hobson and Leonard, the bulk of their book is given over to a review of modern brain science. They hit on some interesting things. Hobson has in the past done important work on dreams, and, unsurprisingly, he is at his best when he writes on dreams here. He proposes that psychotic states are waking dreams -- not simply in the metaphoric sense, but in terms of a symmetry in the literal scheme of brain processing. He carries his comparison a long way, but the principle is well argued and helps to sort out certain puzzling aspects of psychosis. Around this strong material, he and Leonard have spun a story of the brain that is not unintelligent. It is, however, sometimes nearly unintelligible, blending as it does personal research, universally acknowledged truths, received wisdom, radical statistics and some far-fetched concepts that appear spun out of thin air. This stuff comes flying at you, and it's up to you to figure out what is what; in the course of nearly 300 pages, the authors provide 19 endnotes. While a decision to provide no endnotes would be misguided, the decision to provide 19 seems almost madcap, the mark of an ostentatious disdain for the separation of one's private theories from objective reality. Nonetheless, Hobson is an excellent scientist, and a close reader can take from this book a coherent, if sometimes eccentric, picture of how the brain relates to the mind. This is a rare and precious accomplishment.
The book ends with a set of proposals for improving the state of modern psychiatry. Much of what Hobson and Leonard propose is wonderful. To start with, in education, they would create undergraduate courses for pre-meds that bring together psychology and brain science in a neurodynamic approach; for social justice, they would send psychiatric residents to the unidentified mentally ill people in homeless shelters; and for sustained high standards, they would increase the growing number of mandatory outpatient treatment programs. Unfortunately, in today's medical climate, this is a bit like proposing a Middle East peace deal that demands that both sides beat their guns into plowshares and their grenades into pruning hooks. Still, we need books like this. We need righteous indignation at policies that are causing enormous unnecessary suffering, the wasting of huge quantities of money and the undermining of a civil society. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (90%); NEUROSCIENCE (89%); WRITERS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (78%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (78%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



194 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS IN BRIEF: FICTION 

BYLINE:  By Jonathan Miles

 BODY:
 SENTIMENTAL, HEARTBROKEN
REDNECKS
Stories.
By Greg Bottoms.
Context, $21.95.
 "There was no epiphany, no bright holy light, no real moment of wonder," says the narrator at the end of "LSD in Raleigh," one of 13 stories in Greg Bottoms's first book of fiction, "just the feeling that I was in need of an ending." Such spiritual deflations are commonplace in these stories: In "Nostalgia for Ghosts," for instance, a boy vainly struggles to regain the fevers that allowed him to see ghosts, and the narrator of "The Metaphor" tries to ferret meaning out of a police killing in his low-rent meighborhood in Richmond, Va. In these and other stories, Bottoms's characters bang their heads against the reality of life -- trying to smash through to "compelling myth," to a higher plane of existence where birds "so beautiful that they didn't exist or have a name" might soar overhead -- only to find that reality impenetrably bricked over. Thus a typical ending reads: "Streetlights hum. The night is black and cold. You stare ahead through your own breath." If you detect a whiff of minimalist defeatism there, you're right. But opaque, flinty endings are only part of the 80's-era trick bag Bottoms pulls from: there's a three-page, one-sentence story ("Imaginary Birds") and an old workshop warhorse, a story that weaves a handful of disparate, intersecting characters into one narrative quilt ("Intersections"). These exercises, along with two pieces that the publisher bills as stories but which read like biographical essays wedged jarringly into the collection's middle, lend an awkward, hodgepodge feel to Bottoms's book -- evidence, perhaps, of a serious talent still racked by growing pains. Jonathan Miles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (55%) VIRGINIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



195 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Travel Advisory: Correspondent's Report; 
A Security Patchwork At European Airports

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
A PASSENGER flying from Heathrow Airport near London to Rome late last month was told quite firmly by airline staff that, because of new security rules after the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington, a small, wheeled suitcase would not be allowed as carry-on baggage and would have to be checked. Two days later, flying the same airline back from Leonardo da Vinci Airport in Rome, the same passenger was told that the suitcase was fine as carry-on baggage.
 On the way to Rome, airline security personnel had conducted random body and luggage searches on passengers at the gate in addition to the usual baggage X-ray and body-screening that has been standard at European airports since the hijackings of the 1970's. On the return, the backup precautions were limited to a cursory passport check at the gate. 
 The message seemed to be that, while Europe's airports and airlines have by and large augmented their security arrangements since the Sept. 11 attacks, the levels of enforcement are as patchy as ever. 
For travelers in much of Europe, security precautions begin only inside the airport terminal and after check-in. In Budapest, though, a British executive said that two weeks after the attacks on the United States he stood in line for two hours awaiting an extra passport check, baggage X-ray and body search before he could even reach the check-in desk.
But what is also emerging -- slowly but surely -- is that, as European airlines contemplate the long-term future of higher costs for both insuring their airplanes against terrorism and for enhanced security measures, the passenger will end up paying the bill.
That's not altogether surprising. Even before the Sept. 11 attacks on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon, European airlines, like their United States counterparts, were looking at the prospect of hard times as a slowing global economy cut the number of people ready to pay the premium business-class fares that earn their profits.
But with economic problems deepening dramatically since the attacks, Europe's airlines, too, have begun to contemplate job losses and fewer flights, along with cost-saving measures such as postponing purchases of new airplanes. The cost of hiring more security personnel and other expenses related to tightened security have merely added to the burden.
"Price increases are inevitable due to higher costs," said Karin Weber, a spokeswoman for Lufthansa, the biggest European airline after British Airways. The security levy, she said, could be as much as $10 a ticket, on top of already-expensive fares and airport taxes, which may also rise. KLM, Europe's fourth biggest carrier, has already added a $5 surcharge on each flight, and it plans to increase its fares on flights to the United States and the Middle East by 5 percent on Oct. 16, said Hugo Baas, a spokesman for the airline.
Besides price increases, there will also be tighter restrictions on cabin baggage. At most European airports, sharp articles like knives, box cutters, knitting needles and scissors are likely to be removed from hand baggage. In Frankfurt, even the departure-area stores have been told to stop selling Swiss Army knives or other souvenirs that could be used by hijackers.
At both Heathrow and Frankfurt airports, travelers have recently reported seeing more frequent patrols by armed guards. Lufthansa has said it wants passengers on flights to the United States to arrive at the airport two hours before departure instead of one, limit their cabin baggage to one small piece (that has been the rule, but it used to be ignored), and expect an additional security check at the gate just before they board.
At some airports, such as da Vinci in Rome, security precautions have been enhanced for flights bound to the United States. Most carriers, particularly El Al, had special precautions in place for flights to Israel long before Sept. 11.
In most European capitals it is worth calling ahead to airlines to ask about extended check-in times. Travelers from Athens said during the last week in September that people leaving there for destinations outside most European Union countries had been asked to arrive at the airport four hours before departure.
In Athens, too, travelers said, the authorities conducted random identity checks and baggage searches, sometimes using dogs trained to sniff out explosives.
The precautions extend, of course, to the flight deck, although there is little unanimity about methods to protect flight crews and passengers once airborne.
Lufthansa was the first European airline to say it would assign privately recruited sky marshals to flights, but Germany's police union objected to the idea, saying the state was responsible for airplane security. Other European airlines have been more reluctant to support the deployment of sky marshals, while European pilots, in general, have shied from the demands made by some of their United States counterparts for guns in the cockpit.
Like others, British airlines have been told by the authorities that pilots must lock cockpit doors, but the pilots maintain that the ground is the best place to halt attackers. The emphasis, the British pilots' union said, "must be on preventing potential terrorists from boarding aircraft." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (93%); TERRORISM (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (90%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); AIRLINES (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); AIR FARES (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); HIJACKING (78%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (58%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (58%)

TICKER: LHA (FRA) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); ITALY (94%); HUNGARY (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



196 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 6127 words

HEADLINE: A Watchful State 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey Rosen; Jeffrey Rosen is an associate professor at George Washington University Law School and the legal affairs editor of The New Republic. He writes frequently on law for The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
A week after the attacks of Sept. 11, as the value of most American stocks plummeted, a few companies, with products particularly well suited for a new and anxious age, soared in value. One of the fastest growing stocks was Visionics, whose price more than tripled. The New Jersey company is an industry leader in the fledgling science of biometrics, a method of identifying people by scanning and quantifying their unique physical characteristics -- their facial structures, for example, or their retinal patterns. Visionics manufactures a face-recognition technology called FaceIt, which creates identification codes for individuals based on 80 unique aspects of their facial structures, like the width of the nose and the location of the temples. FaceIt can instantly compare an image of any individual's face with a database of the faces of suspected terrorists, or anyone else. 
 Visionics was quick to understand that the terrorist attacks represented not only a tragedy but also a business opportunity. On the afternoon of Sept. 11, the company sent out an e-mail message to reporters, announcing that its founder and C.E.O., Joseph Atick, "has been speaking worldwide about the need for biometric systems to catch known terrorists and wanted criminals." On Sept. 20, Atick testified before a special government committee appointed by the secretary of transportation, Norman Mineta. Atick's message -- that security in airports and embassies could be improved using face-recognition technology as part of a comprehensive national surveillance plan that he called Operation Noble Shield -- was greeted enthusiastically by members of the committee, which seemed ready to endorse his recommendations. "In the war against terrorism, especially when it comes to the homeland defense," Atick told me, describing his testimony, "the cornerstone of this is going to be our ability to identify the enemy before he or she enters into areas where public safety could be at risk." 
 Atick proposes to wire up Reagan National Airport in Washington and other vulnerable airports throughout the country with more than 300 cameras each. Cameras would scan the faces of passengers standing in line, and biometric technology would be used to analyze their faces and make sure they are not on an international terrorist "watch list." More cameras unobtrusively installed throughout the airport could identify passengers as they walk through metal detectors and public areas. And a final scan could ensure that no suspected terrorist boards a plane. "We have created a biometric network platform that turns every camera into a Web browser submitting images to a database in Washington, querying for matches," Atick said. "If a match occurs, it will set off an alarm in Washington, and someone will make a decision to wire the image to marshals at the airport."
Of course, protecting airports is only one aspect of homeland security: a terrorist could be lurking on any corner in America. In the wake of the Sept. 11 attacks, Howard Safir, the former New York police commissioner, recommended the installation of 100 biometric surveillance cameras in Times Square to scan the faces of pedestrians and compare them with a database of suspected terrorists. Atick told me that since the attacks he has been approached by local and federal authorities from across the country about the possibility of installing biometric surveillance cameras in stadiums and subway systems and near national monuments. "The Office of Homeland Security might be the overall umbrella that will coordinate with local police forces" to install cameras linked to a biometric network throughout American cities, Atick told me. "How can we be alerted when someone is entering the subway? How can we be sure when someone is entering Madison Square Garden? How can we protect monuments? We need to create an invisible fence, an invisible shield." 
Before Sept. 11, the idea that Americans would voluntarily agree to live their lives under the gaze of a network of biometric surveillance cameras, peering at them in government buildings, shopping malls, subways and stadiums, would have seemed unthinkable, a dystopian fantasy of a society that had surrendered privacy and anonymity. But in fact, over the past decade, this precise state of affairs has materialized, not in the United States but in the United Kingdom. At the beginning of September, as it happened, I was in Britain, observing what now looks like a glimpse of the American future.
I had gone to Britain to answer a question that seems far more pertinent today than it did early last month: why would a free and flourishing Western democracy wire itself up with so many closed-circuit television cameras that it resembles the set of "The Real World" or "The Truman Show"? The answer, I discovered, was fear of terrorism. In 1993 and 1994, two terrorist bombs planted by the I.R.A. exploded in London's financial district, a historic and densely packed square mile known as the City of London. In response to widespread public anxiety about terrorism, the government decided to install a "ring of steel" -- a network of closed-circuit television cameras mounted on the eight official entry gates that control access to the City.
Anxiety about terrorism didn't go away, and the cameras in Britain continued to multiply. In 1994, a 2-year-old boy named Jamie Bulger was kidnapped and murdered by two 10-year-old schoolboys, and surveillance cameras captured a grainy shot of the killers leading their victim out of a shopping center. Bulger's assailants couldn't, in fact, be identified on camera -- they were caught because they talked to their friends -- but the video footage, replayed over and over again on television, shook the country to its core. Riding a wave of enthusiasm for closed-circuit television, or CCTV, created by the attacks, John Major's Conservative government decided to devote more than three-quarters of its crime-prevention budget to encourage local authorities to install CCTV. The promise of cameras as a magic bullet against crime and terrorism inspired one of Major's most successful campaign slogans: "If you've got nothing to hide, you've got nothing to fear."
Instead of being perceived as an Orwellian intrusion, the cameras in Britain proved to be extremely popular. They were hailed as the people's technology, a friendly eye in the sky, not Big Brother at all but a kindly and watchful uncle or aunt. Local governments couldn't get enough of them; each hamlet and fen in the British countryside wanted its own CCTV surveillance system, even when the most serious threat to public safety was coming from mad cows. In 1994, 79 city centers had surveillance networks; by 1998, 440 city centers were wired. By the late 1990's, as part of its Clintonian, center-left campaign to be tough on crime, Tony Blair's New Labor government decided to support the cameras with a vengeance. There are now so many cameras attached to so many different surveillance systems in the U.K. that people have stopped counting. According to one estimate, there are 2.5 million surveillance cameras in Britain, and in fact there may be far more.
As I filed through customs at Heathrow Airport, there were cameras concealed in domes in the ceiling. There were cameras pointing at the ticket counters, at the escalators and at the tracks as I waited for the Heathrow express to Paddington Station. When I got out at Paddington, there were cameras on the platform and cameras on the pillars in the main terminal. Cameras followed me as I walked from the main station to the underground, and there were cameras at each of the stations on the way to King's Cross. Outside King's Cross, there were cameras trained on the bus stand and the taxi stand and the sidewalk, and still more cameras in the station. There were cameras on the backs of buses to record people who crossed into the wrong traffic lane. 
Throughout Britain today, there are speed cameras and red-light cameras, cameras in lobbies and elevators, in hotels and restaurants, in nursery schools and high schools. There are even cameras in hospitals. (After a raft of "baby thefts" in the early 1990's, the government gave hospitals money to install cameras in waiting rooms, maternity wards and operating rooms.) And everywhere there are warning signs, announcing the presence of cameras with a jumble of different icons, slogans and exhortations, from the bland "CCTV in operation" to the peppy "CCTV: Watching for You!" By one estimate, the average Briton is now photographed by 300 separate cameras in a single day. 
Britain's experience under the watchful eye of the CCTV cameras is a vision of what Americans can expect if we choose to go down the same road in our efforts to achieve "homeland security." Although the cameras in Britain were initially justified as a way of combating terrorism, they soon came to serve a very different function. The cameras are designed not to produce arrests but to make people feel that they are being watched at all times. Instead of keeping terrorists off planes, biometric surveillance is being used to keep punks out of shopping malls. The people behind the live video screens are zooming in on unconventional behavior in public that in fact has nothing to do with terrorism. And rather than thwarting serious crime, the cameras are being used to enforce social conformity in ways that Americans may prefer to avoid.
The dream of a biometric surveillance system that can identify people's faces in public places and separate the innocent from the guilty is not new. Clive Norris, a criminologist at the University of Hull, is Britain's leading authority on the social effects of CCTV. In his definitive study, "The Maximum Surveillance Society: the Rise of CCTV," Norris notes that in the 19th century, police forces in England and France began to focus on how to distinguish the casual offender from the "habitual criminal" who might evade detection by moving from town to town. In the 1870's, Alphonse Bertillon, a records clerk at the prefecture of police in Paris, used his knowledge of statistics and anthropomorphic measurements to create a system for comparing the thousands of photographs of arrested suspects in Parisian police stations. He took a series of measurements -- of skull size, for example, and the distance between the ear and chin -- and created a unique code for every suspect whom the police had photographed. Photographs were then grouped according to the codes, and a new suspect could be compared only with the photos that had similar measurements, instead of with the entire portfolio. Though Bertillon's system was often difficult for unskilled clerks to administer, a procedure that had taken hours or days was now reduced to a few minutes.
It wasn't until the 1980's, with the development of computerized biometric and other face-recognition systems, that Bertillon's dream became feasible on a broad scale. In the course of studying how biometric scanning could be used to authenticate the identities of people who sought admission to secure buildings, innovators like Joseph Atick realized that the same technology could be used to pick suspects or license plates out of a crowd. It's the license-plate technology that the London police have found most attractive, because it tends to be more reliable. (A test of the best face-recognition systems last year by the U.S. Department of Defense found that they failed to identify matches a third of the time.)
Soon after arriving in London, I visited the CCTV monitoring room in the City of London police station, where the British war against terrorism began. I was met by the press officer, Tim Parsons, and led up to the control station, a modest-size installation that looks like an air-traffic-control room, with uniformed officers manning two rows of monitors. Although installed to catch terrorists, the cameras in the City of London spend most of their time following car thieves and traffic offenders. "The technology here is geared up to terrorism," Parsons told me. "The fact that we're getting ordinary people -- burglars stealing cars -- as a result of it is sort of a bonus." 
Have you caught any terrorists? I asked. "No, not using this technology, no," he replied. 
As we watched the monitors, rows of slow-moving cars filed through the gates into the City, and cameras recorded their license-plate numbers and the faces of their drivers. After several minutes, one monitor set off a soft, pinging alarm. We had a match! But no, it was a false alarm. The license plate that set off the system was 8620bmc, but the stolen car recorded in the database was 8670amc. After a few more mismatches, the machine finally found an offender, though not a serious one. A red van had gone through a speed camera, and the local authority that issued the ticket couldn't identify the driver. An alert went out on the central police national computer, and it set off the alarm when the van entered the City. "We're not going to do anything about it because it's not a desperately important call," said the sergeant. 
Because the cameras on the ring of steel take clear pictures of each driver's face, I asked whether the City used the biometric facial recognition technology that American airports are now being urged to adopt. "We're experimenting with it to see if we could pick faces out of the crowd, but the technology is not sufficiently good enough," Parsons said. "The system that I saw demonstrated two or three years ago, a lot of the time it couldn't differentiate between a man and a woman." (In a recent documentary about CCTV, Monty Python's John Cleese foiled a Visionics face-recognition system that had been set up in the London borough of Newham by wearing earrings and a beard.) Nevertheless, Parsons insisted that the technology will become more accurate. "It's just a matter of time. Then we can use it to detect the presence of criminals on foot in the city," he said.
In the future, as face-recognition technology becomes more accurate, it will become even more intrusive, because of pressures to expand the biometric database. I mentioned to Joseph Atick of Visionics that the City of London was thinking about using his technology to establish a database that would include not only terrorists but also all British citizens whose faces were registered with the national driver's license bureau. If that occurs, every citizen who walks the streets of the City could be instantly identified by the police and evaluated in light of his past misdeeds, no matter how trivial. With the impatience of a rationalist, Atick dismissed the possibility. "Technically, they won't be able to do it without coming back to me," he said. "They will have to justify it to me." Atick struck me as a refined and thoughtful man (he is the former director of the computational neuroscience laboratory at Rockefeller University), but it seems odd to put the liberties of a democracy in the hands of one unelected scientist.
Atick says that his technology is an enlightened alternative to racial and ethnic profiling, and if the faces in the biometric database were, in fact, restricted to known terrorists, he would be on to something. Instead of stopping all passengers who appear to be Middle Eastern and victimizing thousands of innocent people, the system would focus with laserlike precision on a tiny handful of the guilty. (This assumes that the terrorists aren't cunning enough to disguise themselves.) But when I asked whether any of the existing biometric databases in England or America are limited to suspected terrorists, Atick confessed that they aren't. There is a simple reason for this: few terrorists are suspected in advance of their crimes. For this reason, cities in England and elsewhere have tried to justify their investment in face-recognition systems by filling their databases with those troublemakers whom the authorities can easily identify: local criminals. When FaceIt technology was used to scan the faces of the thousands of fans entering the Super Bowl in Tampa last January, the matches produced by the database weren't terrorists. They were low-level ticket scalpers and pickpockets. 
Biometrics is a feel-good technology that is being marketed based on a false promise -- that the database will be limited to suspected terrorists. But the FaceIt technology, as it's now being used in England, isn't really intended to catch terrorists at all. It's intended to scare local hoodlums into thinking they might be setting off alarms even when the cameras are turned off. I came to understand this "Wizard of Oz" aspect of the technology when I visited Bob Lack's monitoring station in the London borough of Newham. A former London police officer, Lack attracted national attention -- including a visit from Tony Blair -- by pioneering the use of face-recognition technology before other people were convinced that it was entirely reliable. What Lack grasped early on was that reliability was in many ways beside the point.
Lack installed his first CCTV system in 1997, and he intentionally exaggerated its powers from the beginning. "We put one camera out and 12 signs" announcing the presence of cameras, Lack told me. "We reduced crime by 60 percent in the area where we posted the signs. Then word on the street went out that we had dummy cameras." So Lack turned his attention to face-recognition technology and tried to create the impression that far more people's faces were in the database than actually are. "We've designed a poster now about making Newham a safe place for a family," he said. "And we're telling the criminal we have this information on him: we know his name, we know his address, we know what crimes he commits." It's not true, Lack admits, "but then, we're entitled to disinform some people, aren't we?" 
So you're telling the criminal that you know his name even though you don't, I asked? "Right," Lack replied. "Pretty much that's about advertising, isn't it?"
Lack was elusive when I asked him who, exactly, is in his database. "I don't know," he replied, noting that the local police chief decides who goes into the database. He would only make an "educated guess" that the database contains 100 "violent street robbers" under the age of 18. "You have to have been convicted of a crime -- nobody suspected goes on, unless they're a suspected murderer -- and there has to be sufficient police intelligence to say you are committing those crimes and have been so in the last 12 weeks." When I asked for the written standards that determined who, precisely, was put in the database, and what crimes they had to have committed, Lack promised to send them, but he never did. 
From Lack's point of view, it doesn't matter who is in his database, because his system isn't designed to catch terrorists or violent criminals. In the three years that the system has been up and running, it hasn't resulted in a single arrest. "I'm not in the business of having people arrested," Lack said. "The deterrent value has far exceeded anything you imagine." He told me that the alarms went off an average of three times a day during the month of August, but the only people he would conclusively identify were local youths who had volunteered to be put in the database as part of an "intensive surveillance supervision program," as an alternative to serving a custodial sentence. "The public statements about the efficacy of the Newham facial-recognition system bear little relationship to its actual operational capabilities, which are rather weak and poor," says Clive Norris of the University of Hull. "They want everyone to believe that they are potentially under scrutiny. Its effectiveness, perhaps, is based on a lie." 
This lie has a venerable place in the philosophy of surveillance. In his preface to "Panopticon," Jeremy Bentham imagined the social benefits of a ring-shaped "inspection-house," in which prisoners, students, orphans or paupers could be subject to constant surveillance. In the center of the courtyard would be an inspection tower with windows facing the inner wall of the ring. Supervisors in the central tower could observe every movement of the inhabitants of the cells, who were illuminated by natural lighting, but Venetian blinds would ensure that the supervisors could not be seen by the inhabitants. The uncertainty about whether or not they were being surveilled would deter the inhabitants from antisocial behavior. Michel Foucault described the purpose of the Panopticon -- to induce in the inmate a state of conscious and permanent visibility that assures the automatic functioning of power." Foucault predicted that this condition of visible, unverifiable power, in which individuals have internalized the idea that they may always be under surveillance, would be the defining characteristic of the modern age.
Britain, at the moment, is not quite the Panopticon, because its various camera networks aren't linked and there aren't enough operators to watch all the cameras. But over the next few years, that seems likely to change, as Britain moves toward the kind of integrated Web-based surveillance system that Visionics has now proposed for American airports and subway systems. At the moment, for example, the surveillance systems for the London underground and the British police feed into separate control rooms, but Sergio Velastin, a computer-vision scientist, says he believes the two systems will eventually be linked, using digital technology. 
Velastin is working on behavioral-recognition technology for the London underground that can look for unusual movements in crowds, setting off an alarm, for example, when people appear to be fighting or trying to jump on the tracks. (Because human CCTV operators are easily bored and distracted, automatic alarms are viewed as the wave of the future.) "Imagine you see a piece of unattended baggage which might contain a bomb," Velastin told me. "You can back-drag on the image and locate the person who left it there. You can say where did that person come from and where is that person now? You can conceive in the future that you might be able to do that for every person in every place in the system." Of course, Velastin admitted, "if you don't have social agreement about how you're going to operate that, it could get out of control." 
Once thousands of cameras from hundreds of separate CCTV systems are able to feed their digital images to a central monitoring station, and the images can be analyzed with face- and behavioral-recognition software to identify unusual patterns, then the possibilities of the Panopticon will suddenly become very real. And few people doubt that connectivity is around the corner; it is, in fact, the next step. "CCTV will become the fifth utility: after gas, electricity, sewage and telecommunications," says Jason Ditton, a criminologist at the University of Sheffield who is critical of the technology's expansion. "We will come to accept its ubiquitousness."
At the moment, there is only one fully integrated CCTV in Britain: it transmits digital images over a broadband wireless network, like the one Joseph Atick has proposed for American airports, rather than relying on traditional video cameras that are chained to dedicated cables. And so, for a still clearer vision of the interconnected future of surveillance, I set off for Hull, Britain's leading timber port, about three hours northeast of London. Hull has traditionally been associated not with dystopian fantasies but with fantasies of a more basic sort: for hundreds of years, it has been the prostitution capital of northeastern Britain. 
Six years ago, a heroin epidemic created an influx of addicted young women who took to streetwalking to sustain their drug habit. Nearly two years ago, the residents' association of a low-income housing project called Goodwin Center hired a likable and enterprising young civil engineer named John Marshall to address the problem of under-age prostitutes having sex on people's windowsills. 
Marshall, who is now 33, met me at the Hull railway station carrying a CCTV warning sign. Armed with more than a million dollars in public financing from the European Union, Marshall decided to build what he calls the world's first Ethernet-based, wireless CCTV system. Initially, Marshall put up 27 cameras around the housing project. The cameras didn't bother the prostitutes, who in fact felt safer working under CCTV. Instead, they scared the johns -- especially after the police recorded their license numbers, banged on their doors and threatened to publish their names in the newspapers. Business plummeted, and the prostitutes moved indoors or across town to the traditional red-light district, where the city decided to tolerate their presence in limited numbers.
But Marshall soon realized that he had bigger fish to fry than displacing prostitutes from one part of Hull to another. His innovative network of linked cameras attracted national attention, which led, a few months ago, to $20 million in grant money from various levels of government to expand the surveillance network throughout the city of Hull. "In a year and a half," Marshall says, "there'll be a digital connection to every household in the city. As far as cameras go, I can imagine that, in 10 years' time, the whole city will be covered. That's the speed that CCTV is growing." In the world that Marshall imagines, every household in Hull will be linked to a central network that can access cameras trained inside and outside every building in the city. "Imagine a situation where you've got an elderly relative who lives on the other side of the city," Marshall says. "You ring her up, there's no answer on the telephone, you think she collapsed -- so you go to the Internet and you look at the camera in the lounge and you see that she's making a cup of tea and she's taken her hearing aid out or something."
The person who controls access to this network of intimate images will be a very powerful person indeed. And so I was eager to meet the monitors of the Panopticon for myself. On a side street of Hull, near the Star and Garter Pub and the city morgue, the Goodwin Center's monitoring station is housed inside a ramshackle private security firm called Sentry Alarms Ltd. The sign over the door reads THE GUARD HOUSE. The monitoring station is locked behind a thick, black vault-style door, but it looks like a college computer center, with an Alicia Silverstone pinup near the door. Instead of an impressive video wall, there are only two small desktop computers, which receive all the signals from the Goodwin Center network. And the digital, Web-based images -- unlike traditional video -- are surprisingly fuzzy and jerky, like streaming video transmitted over a slow modem. 
During my time in the control room, from 9 p.m. to midnight, I experienced firsthand a phenomenon that critics of CCTV surveillance have often described: when you put a group of bored, unsupervised men in front of live video screens and allow them to zoom in on whatever happens to catch their eyes, they tend to spend a fair amount of time leering at women. "What catches the eye is groups of young men and attractive, young women," I was told by Clive Norris, the Hull criminologist. "It's what we call a sense of the obvious." There are plenty of stories of video voyeurism: a control room in the Midlands, for example, took close-up shots of women with large breasts and taped them up on the walls. In Hull, this temptation is magnified by the fact that part of the operators' job is to keep an eye on prostitutes. As it got late, though, there weren't enough prostitutes to keep us entertained, so we kept ourselves awake by scanning the streets in search of the purely consensual activities of boyfriends and girlfriends making out in cars. "She had her legs wrapped around his waist a minute ago," one of the operators said appreciatively as we watched two teenagers go at it. "You'll be able to do an article on how reserved the British are, won't you?" he joked. Norris also found that operators, in addition to focusing on attractive young women, tend to focus on young men, especially those with dark skin. And those young men know they are being watched: CCTV is far less popular among black men than among British men as a whole. In Hull and elsewhere, rather than eliminating prejudicial surveillance and racial profiling, CCTV surveillance has tended to amplify it. 
After returning from the digital city of Hull, I had a clearer understanding of how, precisely, the spread of CCTV cameras is transforming British society and why I think it's important for America to resist going down the same path. "I actually don't think the cameras have had much effect on crime rates," says Jason Ditton, the criminologist, whose evaluation of the effect of the cameras in Glasgow found no clear reduction in violent crime. "We've had a fall in crime in the last 10 years, and CCTV proponents say it's because of the cameras. I'd say it's because we had a boom economy in the last seven years and a fall in unemployment." Ditton notes that the cameras can sometimes be useful in investigating terrorist attacks -- like the Brixton nail-bomber case in 1999 -- but there is no evidence that they prevent terrorism or other serious crime. 
Last year, Britain's violent crime rates actually increased by 4.3 percent, even though the cameras continued to proliferate. But CCTV cameras have a mysterious knack for justifying themselves regardless of what happens to crime. When crime goes up the cameras get the credit for detecting it, and when crime goes down, they get the credit for preventing it.
If the creation of a surveillance society in Britain hasn't prevented terrorist attacks, it has had subtle but far-reaching social costs. The handful of privacy advocates in Britain have tried to enumerate those costs by arguing that the cameras invade privacy. People behave in self-conscious ways under the cameras, ostentatiously trying to demonstrate their innocence or bristling at the implication of guilt. Inside a monitoring room near Runnymede, the birthplace of the Magna Carta, I saw a group of teenagers who noticed that a camera was pivoting around to follow them; they made an obscene gesture toward it and looked back over their shoulders as they tried to escape its gaze. 
The cameras are also a powerful inducement toward social conformity for citizens who can't be sure whether they are being watched. "I am gay and I might want to kiss my boyfriend in Victoria Square at 2 in the morning," a supporter of the cameras in Hull told me. "I would not kiss my boyfriend now. I am aware that it has altered the way I might behave. Something like that might be regarded as an offense against public decency. This isn't San Francisco." Nevertheless, the man insisted that the benefits of the cameras outweighed the costs, because "thousands of people feel safer." 
There is, in the end, a powerfully American reason to resist the establishment of a national surveillance network: the cameras are not consistent with the values of an open society. They are technologies of classification and exclusion. They are ways of putting people in their place, of deciding who gets in and who stays out, of limiting people's movement and restricting their opportunities. I came to appreciate the exclusionary potential of the surveillance technology in a relatively low-tech way when I visited a shopping center in Uxbridge, a suburb of London. The manager of the center explained that people who are observed to be misbehaving in the mall can be banned from the premises. The banning process isn't very complicated. "Because this isn't public property, we have the right to refuse entry, and if there's a wrongdoer, we give them a note or a letter, or simply tell them you're banned." In America, this would provoke anyone who was banned to call Alan Dershowitz and sue for discrimination. But the British are far less litigious and more willing to defer to authority. 
Banning people from shopping malls is only the beginning. A couple of days before I was in London, Borders Books announced the installation of a biometric face-recognition surveillance system in its flagship store on Charing Cross Road. Borders' scheme meant that that anyone who had shoplifted in the past was permanently branded as a shoplifter in the future. In response to howls of protest from America, Borders dismantled the system, but it may well be resurrected in a post-Sept. 11 world. 
Perhaps the reason that Britain has embraced the new technologies of surveillance, while America, at least before Sept. 11, had strenuously resisted them, is that British society is far more accepting of social classifications than we are. The British desire to put people in their place is the central focus of British literature, from Dickens to John Osborne and Alan Bennett. The work of George Orwell that casts the most light on Britain's swooning embrace of CCTV is not "1984." It is Orwell's earlier book "The English People." 
"Exaggerated class distinctions have been diminishing," Orwell wrote, but "the great majority of the people can still be 'placed' in an instant by their manners, clothes and general appearance" and above all, their accents. Class distinctions are less hardened today than they were when I was a student at Oxford at the height of the Thatcher-era "Brideshead Revisited" chic. But it's no surprise that a society long accustomed to the idea that people should know their place didn't hesitate to embrace a technology designed to ensure that people stay in their assigned places. 
Will America be able to resist the pressure to follow the British example and wire itself up with surveillance cameras? Before Sept. 11, I was confident that we would. Like Germany and France, which are squeamish about CCTV because of their experience with 20th-century totalitarianism, Americans are less willing than the British to trust the government and defer to authority. After Sept. 11, however, everything has changed. A New York Times/CBS news poll at the end of September found that 8 in 10 Americans believe they will have to give up some of their personal freedoms to make the country safe from terrorist attacks.
Of course there are some liberties that should be sacrificed in times of national emergency if they give us greater security. But Britain's experience in the fight against terrorism suggests that people may give up liberties without experiencing a corresponding increase in security. And if we meekly accede in the construction of vast feel-good architectures of surveillance that have far-reaching social costs and few discernible social benefits, we may find, in calmer times, that they are impossible to dismantle. 
It's important to be precise about the choice we are facing. No one is threatening at the moment to turn America into Orwell's Big Brother. And Britain hasn't yet been turned into Big Brother, either. Many of the CCTV monitors and camera operators and policemen and entrepreneurs who took the time to meet with me were models of the British sense of fair play and respect for the rules. In many ways, the closed-circuit television cameras have only exaggerated the qualities of the British national character that Orwell identified in his less famous book: the acceptance of social hierarchy combined with the gentleness that leads people to wait in orderly lines at taxi stands; a deference to authority combined with an appealing tolerance of hypocrisy. These English qualities have their charms, but they are not American qualities.
The promise of America is a promise that we can escape from the Old World, a world where people know their place. When we say we are fighting for an open society, we don't mean a transparent society -- one where neighbors can peer into each other's windows using the joysticks on their laptops. We mean a society open to the possibility that people can redefine and reinvent themselves every day; a society in which people can travel from place to place without showing their papers and being encumbered by their past; a society that respects privacy and constantly reshuffles social hierarchy. 
The ideal of America has from the beginning been an insistence that your opportunities shouldn't be limited by your background or your database; that no doors should be permanently closed to anyone who has the wrong smart card. If the 21st century proves to be a time when this ideal is abandoned -- a time of surveillance cameras and creepy biometric face scanning in Times Square -- then Osama bin Laden will have inflicted an even more terrible blow than we now imagine. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Surveillance images from cameras in London's financial district. Britain has redefined reality TV.; Stolen Kiss: Surveillance cameras like this one in London capture criminals and noncriminals alike.; Warning Signs: Throughout London, there are reminders of the cameras' presence. (Stephen Gill) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOMETRICS (91%); TERRORISM (91%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); PATTERN RECOGNITION (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); IDENTITY SECURITY (76%); METAL DETECTORS (73%); AVIATION SECURITY (73%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



197 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 10-07-01; 
Out of Egypt

BYLINE:  By Fouad Ajami; Fouad Ajami, professor of Middle Eastern studies at the School of Advanced International Studies at the Johns Hopkins University, is author, most recently, of "The Dream Palace of the Arabs."

 BODY:
I almost know Mohamed Atta, the Egyptian who may have been at the controls of the jet that crashed into the north tower of the World Trade Center. I can almost make him out. I have known Egypt for nearly three decades, and so much of Atta's life falls neatly in place for me. I can make out the life of the 33-year-old man, one of a vast generation of younger Egyptians making their claims on a crowded land, picking their way through the cultural confusion that has settled upon the country in recent years. 
 Atta's father, a well-off but strict lawyer, has given foreign reporters fragments of the life. He has done it in an angry way, outraged as much by claims that his son is a hijacker as by the reports that his son may have been drinking vodka and playing video games days before he boarded American Airlines Flight 11. "We keep our doors closed," the elder Atta said, "and that is why my two daughters and my son are academically and morally excellent." 
 The father was giving voice to the Egyptian bourgeoisie's discipline and anxieties, to its desire to keep its world and its norms intact. From the father still: "He was so gentle. I used to tell him, 'Toughen up, boy."' So much of the world of younger Egyptians is given away in that admonition. 
There had come to Egypt great ruptures in the years when the younger Atta came into his own. A drab, austere society had suddenly been plunged into a more competitive, glamorized world in the 1970's and 1980's. The old pieties of Egypt were at war with new temptations. There must have been great yearning and repression in Mohamed Atta's life; it is the torment of Atta's generation. They were placed perilously close to modernity, but they could not partake of it. 
The place affected an unaccustomed hipness -- big new hotels, the cultural clutter of Europe and America, the steady traffic of foreign tourists throwing in the air intimations of more emancipated ways in less constricted, repressed lands. But the sons and daughters were to be chaste, and the old prohibitions were to be asserted with increasing stridency.
An easy secularism had once been the way of Egypt, and a measure of banter between men and women. Never as tranquil as its legend, but a gentle and soft country all the same, Egypt knew a cultural wholeness and prided itself on a fairly vibrant cultural life. This had given way by the time young Atta, born in 1968, made his way to the university.
On the crowded campuses where Atta and his peers received an education -- an education that put off the moment of reckoning with a country that had little if any room for them, little if any hope -- there emerged an anxious, belligerent piety. Growing numbers of young women took to conservative Islamic dress -- at times the veil, more often the head cover. While the secularists sneered, it became a powerful trend, a fashion in its own right. It was a way of marking a zone of privacy, a declaration of moral limits. Young men picked up the faith as well, growing their beards long and finding their way into Islamist political movements and religious cells. A cultural war erupted in the land of Egypt. A stranger who knew the ways of this land could see the stresses of the place growing more acute by the day.
The sermons of the country -- religious and political, the words of those who monitored and dominated its cultural life -- insisted on a false harmony, held on to the image of the good, stable society that kept the troubles and the "perversions" of the world at bay. But the outwardly obedient sons and daughters were in the throes of a seething rebellion. In an earlier age, Egyptians had been known as a people who dreaded quitting their native soil. In more recent years, younger Egyptians gave up on the place, came to dream of fulfillment -- economic, personal, political -- in foreign lands. Mohamed Atta, who left for Germany in 1993, was part of that migration, of that rupturing of things on the banks of the Nile.
Religion came to Atta unexpectedly, in Hamburg, where he had gone for a graduate degree in urban planning. In bilad al kufr (the countries of unbelief), he needed the faith as consolation, and it was there that he sharpened it as a weapon of war. He styled himself emir, commander, of a religious cell. But the liberties, the temptations, still tugged at him; there were those reports from south Florida of drinking 
and video games. Mohamed Atta carried the contradictions of his worlds, the new liberties and the medieval theology side by side. The man who willingly flew into a tower of glass and steel for the faith broke one of the canons of the faith. 
The modern world unsettled Atta. He exalted the traditional, but it could no longer give him a home. He drifted in "infidel" lands but could never be fully at ease. He led an itinerant life. The magnetic power of the American imperium had fallen across his country. He arrived here with a presumption, and a claim. We had intruded into his world; he would shatter the peace of ours. The glamorized world couldn't be fully had; it might as well be humbled and taken down.
It must have been easy work for the recruiters who gave Atta a sense of mission, a way of doing penance for the liberties he had taken in the West, and the material means to live the plotter's life. A hybrid kind has been forged across that seam between the civilization of Islam and the more emancipated culture of the West. Behold the children, the issue, of this encounter as they flail about and rail against the world in no-man's-land. 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Thomas Hartwell/Corbis /SABA) Chart: "A HOMEGROWN CULTURE WAR""Sex, lies and bizarre legal maneuvers have been the hallmark of Ragab Al Suweirki's trial, a trial that has put the private life of the wealthy businessman, owner of the popular clothing-store chain Al Tawheed Wa Al Noor, in the spotlight. . . . The saucy details of his marriages, and illicit affairs he's allegedly had, have been too hot for a conservative public to handle. In fact, it may be one of the main reasons Judge Lutfi Hassanein kicked out reporters, relatives and other nonlawyers from court proceedings. . . . That, of course, was coupled with the fact that the court was severely overcrowded." Dalia Dabbous, from the Aug. 30-Sept. 5 issue of The Cairo Times

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (78%); AIRLINES (73%); HIJACKING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (73%) EGYPT (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



198 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: A Long-Shut Delaware Tower May Finally Reopen 

BYLINE:  By MAUREEN MILFORD

DATELINE: WILMINGTON, Del. 

 BODY:
THE day after an arsonist set fire to the Delaware Trust Building in 1997, Richard E. Poole surveyed the destruction to his law offices and felt confident the firm's 150 lawyers, paralegals and support staff could return in a few days. 
 Water had warped the Philippine mahogany floors in the lobby of Potter, Anderson & Corroon and some offices were dripping like a rain forest. Yet, elsewhere, as was the case with Mr. Poole's own office, things were exactly as they had been the day before. The damage was manageable, the partners thought. 
 "How little did we know," said Mr. Poole, who headed the 175-year-old law firm during that period. "We probably didn't realize we would never go back until nine months to a year" had passed. 
Nearly five years later, the 22-story Delaware Trust Building, built in 1920 by Alfred I. and William du Pont as part of their feud with cousins at E. I. de Nemours du Pont & Company, remains vacant. One of the largest buildings in the city, it has been caught in a tug of war between its owners and its insurers over the cost and scope of the cleanup and repairs. 
In the weeks after the blaze in April 1997, environmental safety emerged as a major issue. Lawyers who retrieved files were required to wear safety clothing and respirators to protect against asbestos fibers dislodged during the fire. An environmental company had to be hired to decontaminate documents and furniture. Complicating matters was the fact the building had been declared a crime scene. In the end, nobody was ever arrested in the arson, and the investigation was finally closed last summer for lack of evidence.
"Nobody was hurt, and we were able to retrieve much of our material," Mr. Poole said. "But I know the disruptions we faced. Multiply that 10,000 times and that's what New York is facing."
Now it appears the Wilmington building could be back on the market by sometime next year. The environmental cleanup of the interior is nearing completion, said Pete Davisson, senior managing director in the Wilmington office of Insignia/ESG, the real estate services company, which is working with the building's owner, Didimoi Property Holdings of New York, a company controlled by the Angeloucisis family of Athens. 
While some parts of the building were relatively unscathed by the fire itself, less obvious dangers were widespread. Asbestos, used as a fire retardant in building materials, was spread throughout the 550,000-square-foot building by water, smoke and soot. The huge amounts of water used to fight the fire that blazed for eight hours had drenched the carpet, electrical equipment and walls, creating a breeding ground for microbes.
Because indoor air pollution is a major occupational concern, Didimoi made the decision to gut the building down to the beams and decking. The insurance company paid for some of the cleanup, but the owners have covered much of bill as the litigation continues, said Jeffrey Rotwitt of the law firm of Obermayer, Rebmann, Maxwell & Hippel of Philadelphia, which represents Didimoi in its litigation against its insurer, the Cigna Insurance Company (now ACE USA). 
Once an older building is damaged by fire, owners have to overcome perceptions among prospective tenants that the building is still contaminated by hazardous materials, said David J. Wilk, president of Grey stone Realty Advisors in Wilmington.
"For a damaged property to re-enter the market, the owners have to repair it to a level equal to or greater than the competition to avoid marketability problems," said Mr. Wilk, who worked with owners of the 38-story One Meridian Plaza in Philadelphia after it was devastated by fire in 1991.
That fire blazed for 18 hours, killed three firefighters and caused $300 million in damage. Polychlorinated biphenyls and other toxins spread by firefighting efforts became a nagging issue once the fire was out. For seven years, the tower, a once-prestigious address, sat vacant across the street from City Hall. Beginning in 1998, the building was demolished floor by floor over a period of nearly two years after the insurer and building owner settled long-running litigation over the cleanup.
"It was the worst office fire in history -- until the World Trade Center," said Mr. Rotwitt, which represented Meridian's Dutch owners, E/R Associates.
MANY in Wilmington feared the Delaware Trust Building would suffer a fate similar to the Meridian building. For nearly three years, Delaware Trust sat idle as the owners and insurer fought over the extent of the damages. During that period the building had to be stabilized and monitored for environmental safety, said Lewis Morrison, compliance specialist with the Delaware Department of Natural Resources and Environmental Control.
When Didimoi began its cleanup, it decided to go beyond both federal and state standards for air pollutants. The building will meet the same rigorous air-quality standards that apply to school buildings, Mr. Morrison said. Experts say the building probably could have been cleaned to state and federal standards in less than a year. Instead, the owners chose to remove all asbestos, carpet, walls, wires and doors.
On the interior, "it's down to the concrete and steel," Mr. Morrison said. "It looks as if it was just built."
Meanwhile, the insurance dispute is expected to go to trial in federal court in Delaware. Unable to reach an agreement on such things as the loss of rental income and the cost to repair the building, Didimoi and the insurer sued each other in 1999.
Didimoi and the General Electric Capital Corporation, which holds the mortgage, say the loss is roughly $92 million. ACE has rejected that as excessive and beyond the maximum coverage of $76 million. The building owner maintains that the policy provides for an additional $10 million to cover increased costs of bringing the building up to current building codes as well as another $5 million for debris removal. A trial is scheduled for April.
Owners of the Delaware Trust Building are facing another challenge: a soft market. A year ago, space was so tight that the city's law firms, the second biggest users of office space behind the big corporations, were finding it difficult to expand.
With the downturn in the economy, the vacancy rate has shot up to 19.3 percent for both top-of-line buildings and older space, Mr. Davisson said. By next year, roughly 1.5 million square feet of office space is expected to be available, including the Delaware Trust Building and the Nemours Building, a former DuPont building that has been completed renovated for offices and apartments by a private developer.
Altogether, Wilmington has about 5.1 million square feet of all classes of office space, not including buildings owned and occupied by corporations.
"If you look at the normal absorption rates, we have several years worth of office space," said Kevin McGonegal, vice president of Bellevue Realty in Wilmington.
Mr. Davisson said he expected the owners would be making some "aggressive deals," offering rates below the $18.48 per square foot average annual rents for older buildings. 
Built in phases beginning in 1920, the building was the headquarters for the political and financial machine run by Alfred du Pont, one of the three cousins who created the modern DuPont company.
After Pierre S. du Pont ousted Alfred in 1916, Alfred and a cousin, William, joined forces to buy the Delaware Trust Company. Besides needing a home for the bank, the du Pont cousins wanted to build what was then considered a skyscraper to lure two DuPont spinoffs -- Hercules Inc. and the Atlas Powder Company (ancestor of the AstraZeneca) -- from Philadelphia to Wilmington.
The bank's name disappeared in 1996, when its owner, Meridian Bancorp, was acquired by the CoreStates Financial Corporation. The office tower, however, continues to be known as the Delaware Trust Building.
According to Marquis James in his 1941 book "Alfred I. du Pont, the Family Rebel," the building "almost filled with tenants as soon as it opened; it returned a profit even in the hard times prevailing.
"And for Alfred there was another satisfaction. He could go to the roof and look down on the mere 12-story DuPont Building a block away."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Inside, the Delaware Trust Building was stripped to concrete and steel. (Marty Katz for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGAL SERVICES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAWYERS (90%); ARSON (90%); PARALEGALS (89%); FIRES (89%); ASBESTOS (87%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (77%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (71%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); INSURANCE (66%); EVIDENCE (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); AIR POLLUTION (50%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: POTTER ANDERSON & CORROON LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (93%) DELAWARE, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



199 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 671 words

HEADLINE: It's a Little Like Mayberry 

BYLINE:  By ALICE KENNY

DATELINE: OSSINING 

 BODY:
"WAGON-HO!" called Danny DiPaola, in his Brooklyn accent. Dressed on a Saturday in black jeans, black T-shirt and black sunglasses, Mr. DiPaola pulled a rusting red Radio Flyer wagon precariously piled with produce: carrots, cabbage, cilantro. 
 Mr. DiPaola, 48, the owner of danny's cafe.com on Main Street, was doing his Saturday shopping for his restaurant at the farmers' market across the street. 
 Wearing a white chef's jacket and jeans, Jim Porteus, 41, Mr. DiPaola's new banquet chef, also pulled a Radio Flyer around the Ossining Farmers' Market.
About 1,000 shoppers visit this open market each Saturday from 8:30 a.m. to 2 p.m. during its 26-week season from mid-June through Thanksgiving. People of varied backgrounds squeeze tomatoes, peel back husks from corn and trade recipes. 
Onions and fresh bread scent the air. Breezes blow in hints of the Hudson River hidden down the road.
"It's a little bit Mayberry here," said Karen D'Attore, 39, director of development for the Interfaith Council for Action, a community organization that sponsors the community market. "A culturally diverse Mayberry."
April and Hugh Locke, both 47, held hands as they explained to fellow shoppers how to cook the long, green leaves atop beets that many people throw away. When sauteed or steamed with butter and salt, the leaves taste like spinach, said the Lockes, who live in Briarcliff Manor.
Waiting in line behind the Lockes a small boy, no older than 4, stood close to his mother, struggling to balance a bunch of carrots.
Carrying seven plastic bags bulging with produce, Zoila Chacha, 30, and her husband, Raul, 35, said they try to shop at the market every week.
"In Ecuador we grew tomatoes, carrots and potatoes on our farm," Ms. Villa said in Spanish. "I like shopping here because everything is fresh." 
The market began in August 1991 when, at the urging of its founder and director, Miriam Haas, two farm vendors set up their white-roofed tents in a parking lot across from the point where Main, Spring and Brandreth Streets converge with Central Avenue.
Back then, rubble and abandoned buildings dominated the intersection, testaments to urban renewal projects in the 1970's that tore down old buildings but never replaced them. 
"All cultures socialize around eating and food preparation," said Ms. Haas, 51, who was determined to turn the decaying corner into a popular meeting place.
Thomas Cambariere, Ossining's village mayor, credits the farmers' market with spurring the rebirth of the downtown. "It was the catalyst that helped us realize what we needed to do," he said.
About five years ago, Mr. Cambariere said, the village began hanging maroon fabric banners from downtown light poles proclaiming "Welcome Historic Ossining." 
Next, using its own funds and county grants, the village replaced the parking lot that was the site of the farmers' market with Market Square, an open, bench-lined, brick-floored park. The post office relocated to one empty lot and the police station moved into another. In the last three years, 20 new service and retail businesses have opened in the downtown area.
Mr. DiPaola chose the location for his restaurant, which opened last year, because of its proximity to the farmers' market. Besides providing fresh farm produce for his restaurant, the market provided exposure for his business. 
"People see the restaurant when they come to the market," he said.
For Joan Valuch, 34, an Ossining resident, the market combines food shopping with socializing. Dressed in black jogging pants and a white T-shirt, her short blond hair pulled back in a ponytail, Ms. Valuch carried bags of organic produce she had just bought from Taliaferro Farms in New Paltz, the organic vendor, to Grammy's Garden, a cut-flower stand. She was confirming her order of local-grown flowers: bouquets, boutonnieres and table settings for her wedding in October.
"This, for me, is what makes community," Ms. Valuch said. "I couldn't wait for the market to open this summer to tell the Taliaferros about my engagement." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Piles of produce are the lure at the farmers' market in Ossining, which was started in 1991 as part of an effort to revitalize a rundown corner. (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (89%); THANKSGIVING (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); RELIGION (66%); MAYORS (62%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); ECUADOR (79%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 



200 of 1097 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2001 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: October 7, 2001
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1879 words

HEADLINE: Working 9 to 5, Then Off to the Night Job 

BYLINE:  By VIRGINIA GROARK

 BODY:
IT was a bright summer afternoon and the clock was approaching 4:15 p.m. David Sinish, a senior financial underwriter in downtown Hartford, was getting nervous. More than a decade of experience told him that he had five minutes to get to a commuter bus to Collinsville, but he was stuck on the telephone.
 "I have to leave right now to catch that bus," Mr. Sinish said to the caller before hanging up. 
 It was an abrupt end to a phone call, but Mr. Sinish had more at stake than a belated arrival to a home-cooked dinner. Missing the bus meant he could have been late for his second job: head instructor at Collinsville Canoe and Kayak Store. 
Like thousands of Connecticut residents, Mr. Sinish has more than one job. And while the extra income helps with things like college tuition payments, for people like Mr. Sinish the night job creates an opportunity to pursue a talent or hobby.
For these people, 5 p.m. means changing from business shoes to dance shoes, swapping a desk chair for a seat in a kayak or exchanging a pen for clown makeup.
It is a lifestyle that can require sneaking naps on a bus ride home or changing uniforms in employers' bathrooms. But those who do it say they would not have it any other way. 
"If I can't have the one thing I need I'd rather have a little bit of it than none at all," said Leila Valerio, who works as an administrative assistant during the day and a dance instructor at night. 
According to the most recent numbers available from the state Department of Labor, Connecticut is slightly above the national average in terms of the number of people who hold multiple jobs. As of 1999, 5.9 percent of Connecticut workers had multiple jobs compared with 5.8 percent nationwide.
Typically, people take jobs for one of two reasons, said Steven Lanza, executive editor of the Connecticut Economy, a quarterly publication published by the University of Connecticut's Center for Economic Analysis. "They have to, or they want to," he said.
And while second jobs may be associated with people who are down on their luck or having a rough time making ends meet, there are many people who use the additional job to explore certain talents and make money at the same time, he said. 
"It's sort of interesting that these motivations kind of lie on the opposite extremes of the spectrum and you find those kinds of extremes in Connecticut," Mr. Lanza said.
In many cases, people take second jobs because pursuing their dream job does not pay the bills or offer health insurance.
That is the case with Clyde Livingston, who works as a custodian at Canton High School during the day and takes people on hot-air balloon rides in the afternoon and evening. 
The Farmington High School graduate was first introduced to hot air ballooning by his high school art teacher. After graduation, Mr. Livingston went to the Art Institute of Boston for three years before he left and returned to Connecticut to work on construction jobs. But his real passion was hot-air ballooning. It did not help that some of his construction work was in the flight path of his former art teacher's hot-air balloon.
"I would see his balloon over my head and I would say, 'Well, someday it's going to be me,' " Mr. Livingston said.
When he came into some inheritance money, Mr. Livingston, 44, used it to take ballooning lessons and earn his Federal Aviation Administration license.
Sixteen years ago he opened Livingston Balloon Company in Simsbury, which has grown into a business with two hot-air balloons but is still not making enough money to pay Mr. Livingston's mortgage. Though he would eventually like to run the company full time, for now he is keeping his day job, which ends at 2:30 p.m. leaving him plenty of time to fire up his balloon and soar above the trees.
"That is kind of my true love and affection," Mr. Livingston said. "I get a chance to meet people, and it just keeps my fire going. Plus I make money off it, and I'm doing what I want." 
If Leila Valerio had her way, she would be dancing full time. In fact, she tried to do that when she lived in New York during the early 1990's and worked as a Knicks City Dancer.
After sustaining an injury, she returned to Connecticut and became the choreographer for Connecticut Pride basketball team. It was a great job but it was a part-time position. The league has since folded, and Ms. Valerio now juggles four jobs. 
Since March, she has worked full time at CW Resources Inc., a nonprofit vocational rehabilitation agency in New Britain, as an administrative assistant for the Meals on Wheels program and Contract Services.
But at night, Ms. Valerio, a 29-year-old New Britain resident, changes out of her business outfits and into her dance clothes and heads to Carella Alyce Dance Center in West Hartford, where she teaches hip-hop and salsa classes.
She also teaches dancing at Capital Community-Technical College in Hartford. And in the few hours of spare time she has left, she works as a personal trainer at Champions Fitness Center in Cromwell and as a freelance dancer who performs with other women at events like The Big E, the Special Olympics and bar mitzvahs.
While others may be exhausted just hearing about her schedule, Ms. Valerio said she got antsy if she was not busy. And though she often rushes in and out of her kitchen as she tries to eat dinner, change her clothes and fix her hair for her dance classes, she said she would not give up the night jobs.
"I do this because I love to dance," she said recently as she headed out on a dance floor to teach a group of teenage girls some hip-hop dance moves at the West Hartford dance studio. "I could never give it up. "I need the full-time job to pay my bills, and I can't give up the dancing." 
While Ms. Valerio has willingly taken on several other jobs, Rick Vella's initial decision to get a second job was not entirely his own. A driver and dock man for Emery Worldwide, Mr. Vella needed a second income to help with child-support payments for his two children. 
At first he worked part time for United Parcel Service, and later he drove shuttle buses at Bradley International Airport. But when he did not get the hours he wanted, he dropped by Beverly Hills Limousine Company four years ago and applied for a chauffeur's job.
What the 43-year-old Mr. Vella discovered was a fun job that not only gave him a break from heavy lifting (except for the occasional briefcase or luggage) but also provided an opportunity to exchange the rumble of a truck for the smooth ride of a town car or limousine. And instead of hauling lab mice or fiber-optic cables, he transports everyone from high-level corporate workers to brides and grooms on their wedding day. 
"The limousine is more of a fun job," he said. "I like to travel and I like the people."
Sometimes juggling the two jobs can create difficulties. Since his hours at Emery are 10 a.m. to 7 p.m., Mr. Vella tries to schedule most of his work before his Emery Worldwide shift begins. That can mean driving to Kennedy International Airport in the early-morning hours and then changing into his Emery uniform in the bathroom of the limousine company. 
He also chauffeurs at night, after he gets off work from Emery. 
Since the two jobs require him to work a total of about 65 or 70 hours a week, his lunch break at Emery often consists of a nap.
"I think I'm pretty unusual," Mr. Vella said. "A lot of people don't want to work."
That is not the case with Nancy Nowakowski, a community education coordinator for EastConn in Danielson by day and Noodles the Clown by night. Ms. Nowakowski, a 45-year-old Danielson resident, performs as a clown at events that range from fairs and company picnics to birthday parties on weekday evenings and weekends.
"I call Noodles my full-time part-time job," she said.
But unlike Mr. Vella, money did not prompt Ms. Nowakowski to take a second job. Instead, she discovered that working as a clown enabled her to overcome her shyness and tap into her true personality. 
"This gave me self-confidence," she said. "It just gave me the ability to go, 'Here I am and this is who I am,' and it just let the fun person within come out.' "
It all started when she was helping EastConn, a nonprofit education service center, organize a program to encourage young men and women to go back to school to obtain high school degrees. Since the participants had children, the organizers wanted to find a way to keep the children preoccupied so their mothers and fathers could focus on the presentation. Ms. Nowakowski decided to hire a clown to perform for the children. She volunteered to dress up to assist the clown.
"The kids went nuts over me. and I just knew at that moment I wanted to be a clown for the rest of my life," she said. "You would hear people say they had always known what they wanted. I felt like I was searching and searching and at that moment it hit me."
After taking a year to study things like making balloon animals, Ms. Nowakowski began performing as Noodles the Clown 14 years ago. Her jobs have included performing at the Boston Museum of Science's Independence Day ceremonies and the White House Easter egg rolls, not to mention the Norwich Navigator games and the Woodstock Fair. 
While Mr. Vella, the chauffeur, is able to change his uniform in a bathroom, Ms. Nowakowski said it took an hour just to put on her clown makeup. For that reason, she must schedule her weeknight appearances late enough so she has enough time to make it home from her daytime job to get ready.
While she loves working as a clown, Ms. Nowakowski is not ready to give up her day job or the health benefits that come with it. Plus, she thinks she would be overwhelmed if she had to constantly promote her clown business and always had to be thinking ahead about lining up the next job.
"If I was completely full-time doing the Noodles thing I would be panicking all the time," she said. "I wouldn't have fun and I want it to stay fun. When the day comes and it's not fun, it's time to hang up my nose."
David Rankine knows the feeling. For years he has pursued his hobby of playing the bagpipes by performing in parades and other events.
Mr. Rankine, a Vernon resident, practices with three bands during the week after he gets off work from his job at the building management firm of Trammellcro Company in Hartford, where he works in facilities planning.
His hobby also generates money. On weekends, he sometimes plays at weddings, often with his brother who is also a bagpiper. And occasionally, he will play at anniversary or birthday parties on weekday nights. Come March, his nights are booked with St. Patrick's Day party gigs.
"It's a hobby but there is a little extra spending money here and there," he said. 
Mr. Rankine said the recreational and professional performances enabled him to practice the musical skills his father, who came to the United States from Scotland in 1956, taught him as a child. But like Ms. Nowakowski, he is not sure it is something he would like to do full time. 
"That would be too difficult to do," he said.
Likewise, Mr. Sinish, the kayak instructor, is not inclined to make his night job into a full-time one. 
"I'm kind of thinking that if I took up paddling full time it might wear a little thin," he said. "But right now the balance seems to work pretty well."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nancy Nowakowski enjoys performing as a clown, but she is not in a hurry to give up her day job or the health benefits that come with it. (Photographs by Carla M. Cataldi for The New York Times)(pg. 2); Leila Valerio, 29, juggles four jobs, including one as a dance instructor and one as an administrative assistant for the Meals on Wheels program. (Photographs by Carla M. Cataldi for The New York Times)(pg. 3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); TUITION FEES (74%); DANCE EDUCATION (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (69%); DANCE (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001 

 
