

601 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 20; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-25-00: Salient Facts: Sperm Banks;
Take It to the Bank

BYLINE: By Jeff Stryker 

 BODY:

A DIFFERENT KIND OF WORLD BANK
Need further evidence that the forces transforming life as we know it -- you know, global economic interdependence, the Internet -- really are changing everything? Take artificial insemination. Sperm banking is now global; consumers are no longer limited to the small donor pools at local mom-and-pop sperm banks. The Denmark-based Cryos has recently generated media interest because of its aggressive marketing in the American, European and Australian markets. With an avowed goal of becoming the McDonald's of sperm banking, Cryos delivers sperm packed in dry ice or liquid nitrogen to more than two dozen countries. Consumers in many smaller European countries favor the Cryos product because cultural, regulatory or economic factors render local sperm banks impractical. Denmark is also regulated less strictly than its neighbors: Danish donors, for example, are permitted to sire as many as 25 offspring before mandatory retirement; in England, the maximum number is 10.
 
SEMINAL MOMENTS
The first reported instance of donor insemination took place in 1884, when a medical school professor in Philadelphia prevailed upon his best-looking student to donate sperm. The chloroformed patient never even knew what happened; she thought she was being examined yet again to determine the reasons for her inability to conceive. As techniques for freezing and thawing sperm were perfected in the 1950's, the medical establishment solidified its paternalistic role in deciding who got access to artificial insemination. (On the plus side, the involvement of physicians helped remove the stigma of adultery from the procedure, which one court initially declared "contrary to public policy and good morals.") The acme of medical hubris was probably reached in the early 1990's, when Dr. Cecil Jacobson, then of northern Virginia, was discovered to have inseminated unwitting patients (as many as 75, according to some claims) with his own sperm. He maintained he had been doing his patients a favor by providing fresh rather than frozen sperm from a smart (if rotund) doctor. The reluctance of doctors and sperm banks to open their doors to all comers eventually sparked the creation of specialized operations. In Oakland, Calif., for example, Rainbow Flag Health Services, a "known-donor sperm bank," specializes in gay and bisexual donors who seek some modest role in the life of their offspring. 
 
THE GOOD FATHER
When sperm banking first became popular in the 1950's and 1960's, donated semen was often mixed with the husband's to allow for at least the possibility of biological parenthood. The donor was selected to match the looks of the husband, at least in terms of race, hair color and eye color. As recently as 15 years ago, a one-line description of the donor was the industry standard. Now, a dozen-page medical and family history is typical. Today's sperm shoppers want to know more than the cause of the donor's maternal grandfather's death or the shape of his nose. Many of the approximately 100 sperm banks operating in the United States offer catalogs with varying amounts of background information on available donors, and thousands of profiles are available online. The Georgia-based Xytex offers baby pictures of donors, current photographs and 10-minute videotape bios, plus a donor essay about interests and hobbies that includes "a message to you or your future children."
 
REGULAR OR HIGH OCTANE?
Now that Ivy League eggs fetch as much as $50,000 on the open market, it's no surprise that sperm banks would make similar efforts at product differentiation. The notorious Repository for Germinal Choice of Escondido, Calif., famous for its Nobel Prize-winning donors, closed its doors last year, but Virginia's Fairfax Cryobank has stepped into the breach with its "Fairfax Doctorate Donors"; since April 1999 the firm has offered, at a third more than the usual charges, sperm from medical, law, Ph.D. and other students and graduates. Cryos offers three grades of sperm, including an "extra" version that contains twice the number of highly motile sperm as its "regular" brand.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Stephanie Maze/Corbis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (92%); 

COUNTRY: DENMARK (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (72%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: CRYOS (DANISH CO) WORLD BANK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CRYOS (DANISH CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENMARK (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (72%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SPERM BANKS SPERM BANKS (95%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); PARENTING (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (69%); RETIREMENT AGE (68%); MANDATORY RETIREMENT (68%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (68%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: STRYKER, JEFF

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



602 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 6; Page 22; Column 3; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: The Way We Live Now: 6-25-00: On Language;
Never Said It

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
'Let them eat cake." Those words have come ringing down the centuries as the height of hauteur. Marie Antoinette was never able to live them down, even after the queen followed her husband, Louis XVI, to the guillotine after the French Revolution. To this day, whenever a hardhearted trickle-downer suggests that a rising tide lifts all the boats, he or she is denounced for having "an arrogant let-them-eat-cake attitude," unconcerned with the needs of the common people.
She never said it. The source of this canard is the sixth book of "The Confessions of Jean-Jacques Rousseau": "At length I recollected the thoughtless saying of a great princess, who, on being informed that the country people had no bread, replied, 'Let them eat cake."' (The words, in French, read "Qu'ils mangent de la brioche.") 
 However, these words were written in or about 1770, the same year the daughter of the emperor of the Holy Roman Empire arrived in France to marry its crown prince. Rousseau was attributing that saying to some other "great princess." The truth about Marie was just the opposite: she recognized the need for austerity at court and reduced the royal household staff, but in so doing offended snooty nobles, who proceeded to down-mouth her for posterity. I get incensed at this historical linguistic injustice every time I look up the phrase.
Nor is that the only never-said-it. Who can forget "The Guard dies, but never surrenders" ("Le Garde meurt, mais ne se rend pas")? The Count Cambronne, the head of Napoleon's most loyal troops at the Battle of Waterloo, to whom it was attributed, went to his grave wishing we would forget it, because he insisted that he never said it. A half-century after the battle, the writer Edouard Fournier credited a reporter named Rougemont with the creation of the ringing phrase. It may be counter-apocryphal, but some say the count's battlefield response to a demand for surrender was the expletive "merde!" -- a favorite Hemingway word for excrement sometimes referred to in France as "le mot de Cambronne."
These belated corrections are made here today because of a response received after a correction of a more recent misconception: Richard Nixon's never-said "I have a secret plan to end the war." I challenged anyone to come up with a contemporary citation directly quoting the 1968 candidate saying it; nobody ever has.
Because word got around the White House that great misattributions were being straightened out in this space, the following handwritten note came in from Samuel R. Berger, national security adviser: "Bill -- Since you have asserted frequently that Bill Clinton is the 'architect of the strategic partnership' with Beijing, and because you are a stickler for the facts, I would like you to show me one instance in which the President describes the relationship as a strategic partnership."
Gee, could it be that Clinton is being unjustly saddled with a never-said-it? You can get hundreds of citation hits on the databases when you type in "strategic partnership" and "Clinton." An article in Japan's daily Yomiuri Shimbun in 1998: "Last year, Chinese President Jiang Zemin visited the United States, and this year, U.S. President Bill Clinton returned the visit. On both occasions, the two countries began using the term 'strategic partnership' between the two powers to describe their relationship." Robyn Lim wrote recently in The International Herald Tribune, "Two years ago, Mr. Clinton announced a 'strategic partnership' with China." And a vituperative right-wing New York Times columnist (albeit a stickler for the facts) has been writing frequently of "Clinton, architect of the discredited 'strategic partnership' with Beijing." Could we all be wrong?
Berger goes on: "On many occasions we have said that we would hope to develop a strategic partnership, i.e., described it as an aspirational goal. But there is a big difference between describing an objective for the future and what exists today. I can provide you what the President actually said in Beijing."
And so, upon my eager request, he did. On July 3, 1998, the president (Times style, unlike White House style, is to lowercase the name of the office) said in Hong Kong, "My view is that the potential we have for a strategic partnership is quite strong." This followed by five days Jiang Zemin's usage: "progress in the direction of building a constructive strategic partnership."
In each case, and in a dozen other citations provided by the White House, the Clinton context is, as Berger asserts, "aspirational" -- a hope for the future. If the future were the only context for the Clinton use of the phrase, then all of us who have been deriding the president as "architect of the discredited policy of a strategic partnership" -- as if it signified his notion of a present state of affairs -- would surely owe him and his advisers abject apologies.
And yet there is the problem of the Clinton statement to business leaders in Shanghai on July 1, 1998, dutifully provided by the White House. Discussing normal trade treatment for China, an issue then known as M.F.N. (for "most favored nation"), Clinton warned what would happen if Congress did not respond to his plea to vote to renew the normal treatment. "Failure to renew that would sever our economic ties," he said, "denying us the benefits of China's growth, endangering the strategic partnership, turning our back on the world's largest nation at a time when cooperation for peace and stability is more important and more productive than ever."
When Berger saw that citation, he must have uttered an American translation of le mot de Cambronne, but to his credit he did not remove it from the file. A close analysis of the structure of that sentence, especially its concluding "at a time" clause, indicates clearly that the president was speaking of the strategic partnership as something now in existence -- a current relationship that would be endangered if Congress failed to act as he wished. Had he only put prospective, potential or hoped-for in front of the key phrase, the Berger hypothesis would have been unchallengeable.
You could say in Clinton's defense that he was adlibbing and intended to follow the agreed-upon future formulation but just slipped into the present tense on a single occasion. And it is undeniable that the other Clinton and Jiang citations follow the prospective-relationship formula.
What's fair? We should recall the raw deals that loose historians have given the brioche-free Marie Antoinette, the die-hard count and the secret-plan-less Nixon. Unless other usages surface, accuracy-stickling Sinophobes should limit themselves to castigating "the 'strategic partnership' that Clinton frequently hoped for and in one instance suggested his policy produced."
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; FRANCE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); LINGUISTICS (78%); WRITERS (75%); PRISONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (51%); RICHARD NIXON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



603 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1546 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/New Jersey;
For First Time Since 80's, Trenton Is to Get a Hotel

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
A FULL-SERVICE hotel and conference center is to go up in the Lafayette Yard area of Trenton, giving the city a hotel for the first time since the 1980's and bringing to an end its unenviable distinction as the only state capital without lodging for visitors.
Making the more than $46 million hotel a reality was not easy. It took three years of planning and a financing structure that required state and city subsidies, the creation of a nonprofit corporation to issue $31 million in tax-exempt bonds, and a city guarantee for the bonds. Local officials say that the 197-room hotel, to be operated by Marriott Conference Centers, part of the Marriott hotel chain, will be a new anchor in their longterm plan to revive Trenton as a tourist destination and boost the economy of the city, whose industrial base has withered over the last few decades. 
 The other anchors -- a 6,150-seat minor-league baseball stadium and a 10,600-seat hockey arena -- were constructed in the last few years with public and private funds. Douglas H. Palmer, the mayor of Trenton, said that the hotel would strengthen that base because "it will bring in over 60,000 people a year who will spend the night and have money to spend in the city."
Mayor Palmer said the hope is that housing, office and retail space would rise around the hotel, the stadium and the arena -- which are in a half-mile area -- and will spur other development. The hotel is about a block and half from the state capitol.
The hotel project, on which site work began in April, will also include an $11.9 million, 657-car parking garage, which was financed by the Trenton Parking Authority in a separate bond issue. It will take shape on a 3.5-acre site at Lafayette and South Warren Streets, which is owned by the city and the Trenton Parking Authority and was formerly a public parking lot. The seven-story hotel, scheduled to open in early 2002, will be linked to the adjacent Trenton War Memorial, a state historic landmark used for concerts and other cultural events that recently underwent a $38 million renovation. The last hotel in Trenton, the Capital Plaza Hotel, closed in 1986.
The Marriott Conference Hotel at Lafayette Yard is to be built by Acquest-New Jersey, a subsidiary of Acquest Realty Advisors, a development, management and advisory company in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., together with Zeiger Enterprises of Trenton. The hotel will be owned by the private, nonprofit Lafayette Yard Community Development Corporation, which was set up to sell the $31 million in tax-exempt bonds and whose directors include city and community leaders.
Alan Mallach, the development corporation's chairman, said that the city had stayed the course because "giving up on the hotel was giving up on the future of downtown Trenton."
Mr. Mallach, a former director of housing and economic development for Trenton, said that the city had guaranteed the bonds because "the choice was to wait for the project to happen through the private sector, or have the city prime the pump."
Mayor Palmer said that "it was a risk worth taking."
John A. Fox, a senior vice president at PKF Consulting, a real estate and hotel consulting firm in Manhattan, said that financing new full-service hotels is difficult, particularly in downtown urban locations, despite a still strong lodging market and a shortage of such hotels. Among the reasons, he said, are rising interest rates and increasing construction costs.
That combination, said Robert Bowers, a vice president at Smith Travel Research in Hendersonville, Tenn., is even more difficult with full-service hotels. Such hotels, he said, have meeting rooms, restaurants and shops, and are more expensive to build than are lodgings without those amenities, such as limited-service hotels, which have been driving new construction.
Mr. Bowers's company reported that of the 3,393 hotels built nationally from January 1998 to April 2000, only 335 were full-service hotels. Only one of the 38 hotels built in New Jersey during the same period, the Meadowlands Plaza Hotel in Secaucus, was a full-service lodging, according to Smith Travel Research.
"So unless developers can secure below-market financing or obtain public subsidies," Mr. Fox said, "the numbers often don't pencil out." Bond-based financing is becoming a more prevalent way to finance such hotels, he said.
In the case of the more than $46 million Trenton hotel, which at times seemed would never be built, the financing evolved in three stages, with the city's involvement increasing at each stage, said Robert Powell, a managing director at Nassau Capital Advisors in Princeton, which represented the city in the project.
FROM the start the state committed $8.175 million in loans to the project, he said; the city contributed the land as well as $7.25 million in subsidies. Despite the public money, a healthy hotel market and a commitment from Marriott, the developers tried unsuccessfully through mid-1998 to raise the remaining money. "The projected return on the private investment was not high enough to justify what was perceived to be a risky investment in Trenton's untested market," Mr. Powell said.
Early in 1999 the focus shifted to public financing and to the creation of the nonprofit development corporation to issue $31 million in tax-exempt bonds, backed by the project. But it took until last November to structure the deal and turn the state's $8.175 million loan commitment into actual funds, Mr. Powell said, adding that by then interest rates had reached 8.5 percent -- based on the bonds' unrated status, and the market's weak appetite for high-yield bonds -- rendering the project financially unfeasible.
The solution was to get the city to guarantee the bonds, a move the mayor and the City Council agreed to. The six-member Council approved the guarantee by a vote of 5 to 1. Doing so increased the rating of the bonds and lowered the interest rate to 5.7 percent, which made the project more economically viable by reducing the debt service on the bonds from an average of $2.6 million a year to $2.1 million, Mr. Powell said. That lowered the break-even occupancy rate for the hotel to 60 percent from 70 percent, which he said gave city officials the assurance they needed to back the bonds.
Also comforting, he said, was a $2.1 million reserve fund -- part of the $31 million bond issue -- the city could tap, if necessary, to pay the debt service on the hotel. In addition, any profit from the hotel -- Marriott receives a management fee -- flows back to the city, Mr. Powell said.
The commitment of the city and state to the project and to transforming Trenton into a tourist destination is what persuaded Marriott to remain involved, said Terry Harwood, the vice president and general manager of Marriott Conference Centers. Mr. Harwood said that his company, which runs several lodgings in central New Jersey, including a full-service hotel in nearby Princeton, also concluded there was a market for the project in Trenton.
According to Smith Travel Research, the hotel occupancy rate in the area around Trenton, which has 46 lodgings with 4,700 rooms, was 69.7 percent in the 12 months ended in April, a figure relatively unchanged from 1999. The average daily room rate, according to Smith Travel Research, rose 5.5 percent, to $102.
Mr. Harwood said that 15,000 to 19,000 guests yearly at the Princeton Marriott "are coming out of Trenton and would stay in downtown Trenton" if it had a hotel. He said that the Princeton hotel has an average occupancy rate of 80 percent and a turnaway rate of 5 percent.
The main business for the Trenton hotel, Mr. Harwood said, will be conferences, which are projected to account for 70 to 75 percent of its occupancy, compared with 40 percent at many other hotels. The 10,000 square feet of meeting space planned at the hotel will be added to the 5,000 square feet of such space as well as the 1,900-seat amphitheater at the War Memorial, which Marriott will market and manage.
The hotel has been designed to blend with its neighbor. The architects are Ford Farewell Mills and Gatsch, and Johnson Jones, both of Princeton.
Mr. Harwood said that the balance of the business at the hotel, which will have a 120-seat restaurant, will be from business and leisure travelers. He said that room rates are expected to be at least $5 a night lower than those at his company's Princeton hotel, where daily rates range from $150 to $170.
The challenge ahead, said Mr. Mallach of the development corporation, is to draw other commercial and retail projects downtown, including restaurants and offices, and to link the hotel with the arena and baseball stadium and existing historic attractions.
To that end, the hotel is being made the centerpiece of a Heritage Tourism master plan being advanced by the city and Mercer County. The plan seeks to promote historic sites in Trenton and the surrounding area, including the Old Barracks, the Trenton Battle Monument and the Princeton Battlefield.
"The hotel in and of itself is not the answer to turning Trenton into a destination," Mayor Palmer said. "The plan now is to take advantage of the city's location and history."
 
Map of New Jersey highlighting Trenton
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Marriott Conference Hotel at Lafayette Yard, center, is to open in early 2002, with 197 rooms. (Joint Venture Architects)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ACQUEST REALTY ADVISORS; ZEIGER ENTERPRISES; MARRIOTT HOTELS MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); TRENTON PARKING AUTHORITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: ACQUEST REALTY ADVISORS; ZEIGER ENTERPRISES; MARRIOTT HOTELS TRENTON PARKING AUTHORITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON (NJ); NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; FINANCES HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); BONDS (89%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (75%); BASEBALL (73%); BOND ISSUES (71%); BUILDING RENOVATION (67%); OFFICE PROPERTY (64%); HISTORIC SITES (63%); TOURISM (54%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE DOUGLAS H PALMER (66%); JOHN A FOX (56%); LAFAYETTE YARD (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



604 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 31; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 911 words

HEADLINE: ART/ARCHITECTURE;
A Passion That Began At the Water Hole

BYLINE: By RITA REIF 

 BODY:
L. JOHN WILKERSON was 7 when he dug up a shiny stone arrowhead at a water hole near the family's small ranch in Elko, Nev. Collecting arrowheads remained a passion throughout his youth, spent among the children of ranchers and Shoshone Indians, and much later, when he returned from college to work summers as a cowboy and do research on the economics of raising cattle in the West. Yet he never dreamed that in finding that arrowhead at the water hole he had taken his first step toward becoming, 50 years later, the president of the Museum of American Folk Art in New York.
Today, Mr. Wilkerson is a venture capitalist specializing in medical technology at Galen Associates, a New York firm of which he was a founding partner in 1995. (He had just sold the Wilkerson Group, a consulting firm on medical industry technology that he had started 20 years earlier, to I.B.M.) But he still owns the 60 stone arrowheads he amassed decades ago. "The real jewels -- maybe 10 -- are long and skinny, shaped to travel the farthest," he said. 
 These days, he and his wife, Barbara, are avid collectors with broader interests. Color-splashed barber poles, carousel carvings and apothecary chests enliven his office in Rockefeller Center. Boldly patterned aboriginal spirit paintings add graphic intensity to the interiors of their country home in Pennsylvania. Late-20th-century abstract sculpture fills the gardens of their home in New Jersey, while American folk art reigns supreme indoors.
As the Wilkersons acquired folk art, they met other collectors at, among other places, the Museum of American Folk Art. Mr. Wilkerson became a trustee in 1994, became treasurer in 1996 and late last year was elected board president, replacing Ralph Esmerian, a pre-eminent collector of American folk art, who had been president since 1979. (He remains as board chairman.) Mr. Esmerian had helped Robert Bishop, then the director, guide the institution through turbulent times. Under their leadership, it grew from a one-room museum with a collection of 184 objects, and deeply in debt, to a formidable institution with many masterpieces among its 4,000 objects. It organizes exhibitions that travel throughout the world, and, under its current director, Gerard C. Wertkin, it is building a $22 million museum on West 53rd Street, due to open late next year.
Mr. Wilkerson hopes to build on the success of his predecessors, placing even more emphasis on the business aspects of the museum. "For the last 20 years, the leadership at the museum had focused 75 percent on its collections and curatorial activities and 25 percent on its business management," he said. "Today with everything we have on our plate -- the building going up and an endowment being planned for major acquisitions -- it is a more balanced equation, 50-50."
The Wilkersons are already involved in the museum in other ways, lending pieces for exhibitions. Their 9-foot-long "Angel Gabriel" weathervane was hard to miss in the museum's show marking the millennium. And they have many articles that may be exhibited in the future. Their other weathervanes -- in the shape of horses, cows, angels and American Indians -- hang floor to ceiling in the entrance hall of their home. Pennsylvania German cabbage cutters, embellished with cutouts of hearts and hands, cover a wall in the kitchen. And painted furniture, shop signs, trade figures and watercolors are spread throughout the rest of the house. In this crowded environment, you have to look closely to see the complexity in the haunted Munchlike expression in a woman's face in a gouache by Bill Traylor.
Mrs. Wilkerson had a head start on her husband as a folk-art collector: she bought her first piece -- an 1880's cherry end table -- when she was 14. But he proved a fast learner, succumbing quickly to the easy charm, optimism and diversity of folk art. They began collecting after they were married 33 years ago, and furnished their first home on a tight budget with painted chests, tables and a desk, paying less than $100 for most pieces. By the 1970's, they were buying decorative objects and weathervanes.
The first vane they bought was by J. Howard & Co. of West Bridgewater, Mass. "We knew he was our guy; his vanes were the most striking," Mr. Wilkerson said. "In the 1980's, we decided that we would develop the most comprehensive collection of weathervanes by Howard. We've probably done just that -- nobody else would be so crazy."
Of the 57 vanes they own, 27 are by Howard, a competitor in the 1860's of the better-known manufacturers A. L. Jewell of Waltham, Mass., and J. W. Fiske of New York. Howard specialized in using zinc and copper to achieve a better balance in his vanes. And he made stepping horses of exceptional grace, while Jewell strove for more dynamic movement in his all-copper horses. This characteristic is seen in a Wilkerson treasure, a patinated flying horse by Jewell, its tail and mane borne high by the wind.
The Wilkersons also realize that their involvement in the museum is having an impact on their collecting: they are trying to upgrade what they buy and to better document the pieces that they own. But their biggest problem as collectors, they say, is that they have never sold or given away anything from their collection. "We can't seem to say goodbye," Mr. Wilkerson said. "We have a lot to learn from the curators at the museum on how to fashion and continuously refine a collection."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The folk art collection of Barbara and John Wilkerson includes a 19th-century weathervane by A. L. Jewell, above, and "Woman in Black Dress With Blue Purse and Shoes" by Bill Traylor. (Gavin Ashworth/Museum of American Folk Art)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF AMERICAN FOLK ART (NYC) GALEN ASSOCIATES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF AMERICAN FOLK ART (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEVADA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ART; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ART COLLECTING (77%); PAINTING (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); HEALTH CARE (74%); BEEF CATTLE FARMING (73%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); VENTURE CAPITAL (55%); 

PERSON: WILKERSON, L JOHN; REIF, RITA ROB BISHOP (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



605 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO;
Britain Laughs, and Wonders At Whom It's Really Laughing

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN; Andrew Ross Sorkin reports from London for The New York Times.

DATELINE: LONDON

 BODY:
CLAD in his bright yellow athletic warm-up suit, Tommy Hilfiger skull cap, sunglasses and dangling gold chains, the British cult comic character Ali G conducted one of his trademark hoax interviews on his hit late-night television program here with Tony Benn, a longtime member of Parliament and ardent socialist, completely straight-faced.
"These unemployed -- they just chillin' innit, man?" he quizzed a serious-looking Mr. Benn, who appeared thrown by his seemingly black interviewer's unusual style of questioning and choice of clothing. "Is goin' on strike jus' like 'avin' a sickie?" 
 Without a hint of laughter, Ali G probed further. "Does welfare not just encourage young girls to go out and get jiggy with Mr. Biggy?"
Mr. Benn was clearly not in on the joke, in part because he was the punch line, and in part because the comedian who plays Ali G is not a black product of the inner city; he is a white, Jewish graduate of Cambridge University.
But Ali G's audience ate up the segment, repeating bits from the interview at pubs around town for weeks, making "Mr. Biggy" a momentary pop-culture reference among the 20-something generation.
The politician acknowledged after the prank interview that he never realized he was being duped.
Mr. Benn has not been the only one to fall for the tongue-in-cheek antics of Ali G, who has become the television icon of the moment here. A long line of well-known politicians and academics have been suckered. On a trip to the United States, Ali G asked an unsuspecting Gen. Alexander M. Haig Jr., the former secretary of state, "Is it true that Reagan and Thatcher was doin' it?" He followed up with, "Do you t'ink it's worth nukin' Russia now, while it's weak?"
Played by 28-year-old Sacha Baron Cohen from North London, the Ali G character tries to mock young, white, middle-class suburban men who presume to act stereotypically black, as well as the way in which an older generation reacts to them. His language is a potpourri of American gangsta rap and the Indian and Caribbean accents of the British working class. Mr. Baron Cohen even created a fictitious gang, laughingly called Staines Massive (after the London suburb of Staines), which, of course, is led by Ali G.
The Ali G character has become a lightning rod for praise and controversy, stirring the English to applaud Ali G, who represents a new form of comedy that speaks to a younger generation, and at the same time to condemn the character as another example of racism that has sadly been accepted by a broad and impressionable audience.
The character was created two years ago for several segments on a late-night comedy program called "The 11 O'Clock Show" on Channel 4. The Ali G character, who duped unsuspecting public figures into interviews under the pretense that he was the host of a public affairs program for teenagers, became so popular that an entire weekly television series, "Da Ali G Show," was built around the character by the same network. A home video of the original Ali G segments has become a top seller in Britain, and another video may be on its way.
His shtick has hit such a nerve that Mr. Baron Cohen is set to appear in Madonna's next music video as Ali G and is working on a script for the movie production company Working Title, which made "Four Weddings and a Funeral" and "Notting Hill," about making a movie based on the Ali G character.
It remains unclear whether Mr. Baron Cohen's brand of humor can attract a broad audience beyond Britain and whether it would be accepted without protest elsewhere. While there have been reports here that Talkback Productions, which produces "Da Ali G Show," may try to take the program across the Atlantic, it will almost surely receive an onslaught of criticism from a multitude of minority groups.
Here in England, the Ali G character has come under attack in some circles. Mr. Baron Cohen has received death threats and is regularly condemned in the press. "The fact that he has been a success should not be treated as an excuse to quash discussion about the propriety of the act," a commentator wrote recently in the daily newspaper The Guardian. "If the black and white minstrels weren't funny, then why is Ali G?"
But Ali G's defenders say the act is less about poking fun at minority stereotypes than mocking ignorant whites. "He is about a white kid pretending to be black," said a spokesman for Channel 4. "He is satirizing the way white kids try to copy the black street culture and look ridiculous. If it's offensive to anyone, it's offensive to white people."
Harry Thompson, co-creator and producer of "Da Ali G Show," believes the Ali G character just follows the model of a long list of comedians who have successfully inspired laughs through a bit of racism in Britain.
"Just as Alf Garnett became a hero to bad-tempered racists in the 1960's, and Loadsamoney inspired London football fans to wave wads of cash at their northern counterparts in the 1980's, so Ali has become a cultural magnet for inarticulate youth in the 2000's," Mr. Thompson wrote in The Sunday Times.
"It's a perverse but welcome accolade for one of the most brilliant comic talents that I've ever encountered."
Mr. Baron Cohen refused to be interviewed for this article. In fact, his agent and production company were so worried that Mr. Baron Cohen would become recognizable in the United States because of media coverage -- and therefore unable to successfully pull pranks on future interview subjects -- that they refused to provide "production" photos of Ali G in full garb regularly handed out to British media organizations, or allow photographs to be taken of him as Ali G. (The picture that accompanies this article was obtained from a photo agency.)
But Ali G's cover may not be blown after all. In one of the better-known segments, he is dragged away from an environmental protest by a policeman. "Is it because I's black?" he says. Without even a second glance, the officer replies, "Not at all."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sacha Baron Cohen, a white, Jewish graduate of Cambridge, is Ali G. (Antony Briggs/Idols)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (51%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (91%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (51%); LONDON, ENGLAND (91%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INTERVIEWS (90%); POLITICS (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (72%); RACE & RACISM (70%); CITY LIFE (67%); HIP HOP CULTURE (65%); SUBURBS (65%); RAP MUSIC (50%); 

PERSON: ALI G (SACHA BARON COHEN); SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS ANTHONY WEDGWOOD 'TONY' BENN (92%); TOMMY HILFIGER (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



606 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 4; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2708 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
A Combo of Actors Learns the Joy of Jamming

BYLINE: By WILBORN HAMPTON; Wilborn Hampton is an editor of The New York Times Book Review who occasionally writes about theater.

 BODY:
TOWARD the end of August Wilson's "Jitney," at the Second Stage Theater Off Broadway, the drivers and other denizens of Becker's Car Service return to their storefront office after a funeral. As they enter one by one, you realize you have come to know these characters so well that you feel you have shared the loss with them, as though you, too, are a member of the mourning party.
Even before that final scene, the indelible performances of the nine cast members in "Jitney" have made their characters so familiar that you may believe you have lived in Pittsburgh's Hill District all your life and that your own family has used Becker's for years, to be ferried to the grocery store, washeteria or visits to relatives. 
 You know that if Turnbo shows up, he's going to grumble about being kept waiting and start gossiping; if Fielding gets the call, he's going to try to cadge a dollar extra for a pint of whiskey; if it's Youngblood, he's going to complain about carrying anything in his pristine trunk; if it's Doub or Becker himself, you're going to get a little chit-chat with the ride. You know that Shealy runs the numbers game and that Philmore is the doorman at the hotel. You wonder whether Youngblood will finally be tamed by Rena and whether they will ever get married, now that their boy is 2 years old. And you will probably know all about Booster, Becker's son, who is due to get out of prison soon.
This sense of familiarity begins, of course, with the richly poetic language of Mr. Wilson, a two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright whose Broadway hits include "Ma Rainey's Black Bottom," "Fences," "Joe Turner's Come and Gone," "Two Trains Running" and "Seven Guitars." But while "Jitney" is very funny in the idiosyncrasies of its characters, it is also a poignant evocation of the aspirations of the late 1970's that cuts across color lines, but that happens to be told from an African-American perspective. That it is so full of hope against so much disappointment reflects the indomitable spirit of all Americans whether, as one actor in the cast put it, "black, white or green."
On the surface, the play deals with the social and economic troubles of the time through the impending forced closing of the car service business, which will put the drivers out of jobs. But as with all meaningful plays, "Jitney" operates on deeper levels as well. There is the theme of forgiveness in the release of Becker's son from prison, the sense of wasted lives and compromised dignity in the stories of the older drivers and the dreams for the future through the stormy relationship between Youngblood and Rena. In the end, it is a play about the meaning of love.
Just as composers must rely on musicians to convey the emotional force of their music, playwrights depend on actors to bring their characters to life. And the actors in Marion McClinton's staging of "Jitney" are pitch-perfect.
The comparisons to music are not idle. In a recent conversation with the nine-member cast at the theater, more than one spoke of their performances and the play in musical terms, as did Mr. McClinton. If the actors are the playwright's musicians, the director is the conductor. And in casting the play, the quality Mr. McClinton said he looked for first was the actor's ability to make the extra effort to be an ensemble player rather than just another virtuosic soloist.
"You can tell in auditions whether an actor is an ensemble actor," Mr. McClinton said in a telephone interview from his home in St. Louis. "Often at an audition it's simply: 'Look at me! Look at me!' But when there's give and take between actors, you know you have a team player."
"Hearing 'Jitney' is like listening to the Modern Jazz Quartet," Mr. McClinton added. "Each of the characters has his or her solo, but they've also got to be there as backup for the others."
For Barry Shabaka Henley, who plays Doub, a middle-aged driver, each performance "is like a jam session."
Y OU come in with your own instrument every night," he said, "and you've got to be ready to jump in and play as hard as you can. You get juiced up and feed off each other's riffs. You just can't wait to get out there and play."
The references to soloists and sidemen are especially apt for "Jitney." Each of the characters has a monologue that helps define his or her persona. For Willis Burks II, who plays the numbers runner Shealy, it's a hilarious story about a jinx a woman has put on his love life; for Anthony Chisholm, who is the alcoholic driver Fielding, it's a rueful tale about once being a tailor for Billy Eckstein; for Paul Butler's Becker, it's an account of his wife's death; and for Mr. Henley's Doub, it's about his service in the Korean War, stacking dead bodies: "Six high -- not five, not seven. But always six high." It's a gripping speech, splendidly delivered by Mr. Henley.
But it is brought home to the audience with even greater force by the attention with which Russell Hornsby, who plays Youngblood, a Vietnam veteran himself, listens to it.
One of the first lessons in Acting 101 is that you have to listen to the actor who is speaking (instead of, say, trying to remember your own next line or listening for your cue or trying to steal a scene by distracting attention from the speaker). It is a lesson some actors learn better than others. Few do it as well as the nine actors in "Jitney," whose entire cast was cited for its work with an Obie award.
Mr. Hornsby listens a lot in "Jitney." It is Youngblood, for example, to whom the story of Becker's son's crime is related. Mr. Hornsby must hear the tale eight times a week with a growing amazement and anger that will transfer to the audience almost by osmosis.
"What makes all this work for me is the fellowship we have with each other," Mr. Hornsby said. "We're truly engaged onstage because we're engaged in real life. I ask a question out there and listen because I want to know."
Mr. Burks agreed: "It's something really quite extraordinary we have here. It lets you go out there and hear each moment for the first time every night."
Michole Briana White, who plays Youngblood's independent-minded girlfriend, Rena, said she had been astonished at "the amount of professionalism in the cast" from the first reading of the play. "Ensemble work is not about ego," she said. "It's all about moving the story forward. Everybody puts ego aside in this group."
Another advantage of having a cast that has been working together for so long is the split-second accuracy of timing and blocking with which the action moves. Each actor knows where the others are going to be onstage and at what tempo each scene will develop.
"It's like the Chicago Bulls during their championship years," Mr. Chisholm said. "It's like you are dribbling down court full speed and pass the ball behind your back without looking and you know somebody's there to take it and dunk it."
Mr. Henley interjected: "That was the Harlem Globetrotters." Mr. Chisholm shot back: "The Bulls did it, too."
Certainly the metaphor is apt. In several scenes, especially one toward the end in which an argument develops over a $10 contribution for funeral flowers, the entire cast moves with the precision of a fast break in basketball or the intricacy of a timing pass pattern in football.
ANOTHER mark of the cast's distinction is the way the actors build their characters through small personal traits -- a slight tremor in Mr. Chisholm's hand or the way he fumbles with the cap on a half-pint of whiskey; how Mr. Butler uses a fedora to create Becker's aura of respectability; the way Mr. Burks and Mr. Hornsby consult the small notebooks in which each keeps the figures that define their success in life. It is through such specificity that the audience comes to know them.
Describing the cast's closeness, Leo V. Finnie III, who plays the doorman Philmore, said: "About 45 minutes before the show every night, we all get together and talk about what we've been doing. 'What was your day like?"What's been going on?' "
Mr. Henley added: "I love every member of this cast. Oh, we may argue from time to time, but it's like family arguing. Some nights we all hold hands before we go on."
Mr. Chisholm, who has appeared in four of Mr. Wilson's plays, said: "In all of August's plays something happens that puts you in a different kind of place. But in this one, with this cast, there is an intangible cohesiveness you don't find in the others."
Mr. McClinton, the director, also spoke of the "intangible element" that has evolved in this production. "It's not something you can direct," he said. "It doesn't often happen with a cast. And with this one it's developed over the long period of time they've been doing it."
Indeed, one of the reasons behind the success of this staging of "Jitney" is the length of time many in the cast have been performing it. It has long been Mr. Wilson's habit that his plays tour the country in various regional theaters while he polishes them with rewrites before they land in New York.
"Jitney," which was the first play Mr. Wilson wrote in his cycle dealing with the African-American experience in each decade of the 20th century, was originally produced in 1979 in his native Pittsburgh. The present version, for which the author made revisions, was first staged in 1996 for the Pittsburgh Public Theater, and four of the nine current cast members have been with it since its inception. But it has not been a straight path to New York. Along the way it has played in Baltimore, Boston, Chicago, Washington and Los Angeles, among other cities.
Stephen McKinley Henderson, who plays Turnbo, said that some of the actors had made sacrifices to stay with the play. "We wouldn't know where it was going next," he said. "The Pittsburgh production was supposed to be it. But just as we were winding up, somebody else said they wanted to do it. We'd do that one, and then another theater would want it."
Mr. Burks said that some of the actors would take other jobs in between productions. "I worked on a couple of movies, but I would always be available for the next time someone wanted to do it."
The dedication of the actors to the play had been there from the beginning, Mr. Butler said: "It evolved from the very first reading. It was like we all looked at each other and said, 'We gotta go! We gotta go!' "
The initial enthusiasm has been infectious for those who have joined the cast since. Carl Lumbly, who plays Becker's son, Booster, is the newest member. "I just feel gratitude for being part of this group," he said. "To be with a cast that is committed to meeting and then topping the bar every time."
The length of time in a role can have its drawbacks. Actors can get tired of a character and end up delivering perfunctory readings while walking through the part. In theater it's called "mailing in a performance." This has not happened in "Jitney."
"The play itself is so exciting," Mr. Hornsby said. "I look forward to doing it every night. It's an emotional thing for everybody."
Mr. Henderson agreed that the play was the main reason. "We've all sort of made a mission out of this," he said. "Because of August. And also because at some point you begin to realize that you're delivering something that's important."
Ms. White said another factor was that the cast keeps working on their characters. "After every performance, Russell and I talk about how our scene worked that night," she said, referring to a confrontation she and Mr. Hornsby have in which Ms. White delivers a virtual manifesto on behalf of black women. "We discuss the performance and ask ourselves how we can improve it. Do I need to listen more? Should I put my foot down more? You can't play the same notes every night. That's what keeps it alive and fresh."
Every season that includes a new August Wilson play is a reminder of the vast mine of talent among black actors in this country that one rarely gets to see onstage.
Have opportunities increased over recent years for black actors? Has the movement known as nontraditional casting -- using minority and female actors in roles written for white males -- made any difference?
"It goes in cycles," Mr. Henley said. "I think there were even more black shows in the 70's than there are now. Black actors are a reflection of black workers in other fields. When it's convenient for us to be seen, we'll be seen. If Hollywood sees there's no danger of losing money on a black project, then they'll do it. When 'Waiting to Exhale' did well, everybody thought, 'Finally, a black movie made money, now we'll finally see more.' But it doesn't happen. The trend goes back and forth."
Mr. Chisholm said he saw more opportunities for African-American actors on television than the stage: "Today, because there are more television channels, there are more chances to get something done -- a miniseries or some project like that. But as far as the theater is concerned, the chances are few and far between. Sometimes you have to wait for years."
Regional theaters, Mr. Henderson said, "are good for this."
"There is a lot of theater between L.A. and New York," he noted. "Actors get work because of these companies. We need more of them so we can have ensembles. Because, you know, for actors, there are no unimportant roles."
Mr. Chisholm agreed. "I'm an actor. I can play a lizard, anything. I've worked in 'nontraditional' theater. I did 'Of Mice and Men.' Played Slim. The great Joe Fields did a Willy Loman. We as actors want to act. But first of all, I'm an African-American. And putting all politics aside, what we need is more producers, more writers and, as a people, more cohesiveness. We as black people have got to support the theater. If people all came to see 'Jitney,' it would run for 10 years."
Mr. Henderson, who is on the faculty of the State University of New York, Buffalo, said: "It depends on what you mean by 'nontraditional' and 'traditional.' I've had people say to me: 'You're a good actor. You should be doing Shakespeare or Shaw.' I'm all for black actors doing those roles. But don't tell me playing those roles has to be the goal of my career. This is a big country and it is all of our stories that make it great. People should listen to all the stories. If you don't get 'Joe Turner's Come and Gone' or are uncomfortable about it, still go out and see it."
MR. HENLEY said that one of the reasons "Jitney" is "so special is the thread of universality in it that makes it more accessible to white people." Some of Mr. Wilson's plays "agitate a white audience," Mr. Henley said.
Mr. Chisholm, who appeared in "Two Trains Running," compared the audiences that came to that play and those at "Jitney." "You get a very different feeling from the audiences for 'Jitney,' " he said.
For Ms. White: "This play is so moving. Although it is set in the 1970's, it still applies to women today. I can totally relate to Rena. She was ahead of her time. For her to have the kind of courage she does -- to say 'I love myself first' -- she was taking a big risk."
One reason for the wide appeal of "Jitney" is the undercurrent of hope and forgiveness that flows through the play, often even unstated, as when two antagonists who have a bitter running feud resume playing checkers in the final scene.
"This play really reflects its time for black Americans," Mr. Lumbly said. "It's the 70's. Vietnam is over and we black people thought stuff was finally going to happen for us. Our dreams were on fire. And then nothing happened. We saw our dreams start to wither. This was also true for black actors."
Mr. Lumbly recalled that when he and Mr. Butler made the movie "To Sleep With Anger," a 1990 black drama in which they also played father and son, "Somebody wrote that we were 'underknown' actors. But that implies that stardom is what I should be striving for. I don't agree with that. As black actors, we should be concentrating simply on becoming better artists."
One thing is certain. The cast members of "Jitney" are having the time of their lives acting in it. "We're all so excited about this play," Mr. Burks said wistfully, "that I sometimes wish I could just sit in the audience and watch us."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Above, from the left, Willis Burks II, Carl Lumbly, Stephen McKinley Henderson (seated), Russell Hornsby (seated), Anthony Chisholm and Barry Shabaka Henley in "Jitney" at the Second Stage Theater. At right, Paul Butler, Michole Briana White and Russell Hornsby. (Photographs by Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 4); The Obie award-winning cast members of August Wilson's "Jitney": Seated, from left, Willis Burks II, Anthony Chisholm, Paul Butler, Michole Briana White, Russell Hornsby. Standing, Carl Lumbly, Stephen McKinley Henderson, Barry Shabaka Henley and Leo V. Finnie III. (Craig Schwartz)(pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: JITNEY (PLAY)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; REVIEWS THEATER REVIEWS (93%); THEATER (92%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); RETAILERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SERVICES (72%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (68%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (67%); WRITERS (63%); 

PERSON: HAMPTON, WILBORN; WILSON, AUGUST; MCCLINTON, MARION AUGUST WILSON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



607 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 15; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: MIDSTREAM;
Of Eggs and Single Baskets

BYLINE: By JAMES SCHEMBARI; James Schembari is an editor at The Times. His column on the prime earning, spending and striving years appears the fourth Sunday of each month. E-mail may be sent to jimschem@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS baby boomers, we are getting a reputation. We take heat for our questionable cell-phone habits, the big trucks we drive and our overall obsession with money. Now investment advisers are shaking their heads over how we invest. We are, they say, incredibly risk-prone and oblivious to the lessons of history.
We know that, of course, and it seems that many of us don't care. 
 But I do. I stubbornly hang on to my Coca-Cola and Disney stock, refusing to dump these stodgy issues and invest in dot-coms. I own Treasury bills. About 45 percent of my 401(k) account is in money-market and bond funds, the remainder in a stock fund. I have four children, and that makes me cautious.
Not so the rest of my generation, said Steven W. Kaye, president of the American Economic Planning Group in Watchung, N.J. Mr. Kaye advises many people my age and is amazed at the chances they take.
"No group in history has taken on the risks that the baby boomer generation has," he said. "People were more diversified in the past. The generation just before the boomers had a high concentration of health stocks, but nothing like the baby boomers and their technology craze. The group as a whole doesn't seem to care about risk as much."
Tom Mucciolo, 45, president of Medianet Inc., a Manhattan company that teaches people how to make presentations, said he does care -- but is confident that he has made the right choice. Almost all of his investments are in stocks, and about 65 percent of those are technology companies. Yes, he knows it's risky. Yes, he knows he's not diversified. "I'm banking on technology," he said.
"If you talk to an investment adviser, they'll say this guy should have his head examined," Mr. Mucciolo added. "But I'm comfortable with the risk, because it is my risk. I have continual earnings power and time to recover" if the market falls.
Howard S. Cohen, 49, a cardiologist in Warren, N.J., said he has about 80 percent of his portfolio in technology stocks. Like Mr. Mucciolo, he is confident in the sector, and in his ability to recover from any downturn. Still, he said, his position makes him nervous.
"Oh yes, I'm scared," he said about the spring meltdown in the Nasdaq. "When the stock market takes a 30 percent correction, and I'm looking at my savings taking a 30 percent hit, it's very unsettling."
He said that he watches the market closely and that he would become more conservative if the market fell into an extended decline, an event he conceded he has never experienced.
Mr. Kaye says that is part of the problem. "Older people have a better chance of remembering 1972 through '74," he said. "Boomers can't conceive that the S.& P. could lose 50 percent over a three-year period. We're seeing them not being afraid to put 70 percent of their money in technology, because they think that's where the entire future is. They don't realize that there have been other booms and busts, like oil stocks in the early 1980's."
He said some boomers had another habit: loading up exclusively on their employer's stock, leaving them doubly vulnerable if their company falters.
Diane M. Hogan, 43, of Flemington, N.J. accepted that risk with her company, Charles Schwab, which at one time made up most of her portfolio.
She bought the stock through the employee stock plan, and although she said many friends thought she was crazy, she stuck with the strategy for more than a decade. When she left Schwab last year, the value of her stock had grown to about $4 million. It's hard to point fingers when a strategy works. "I don't want to say that it was dumb luck, but I just left it there and forgot about it," she said. "I never thought that I would become a multimillionaire."
She has since sold much of the Schwab stock, but she remains about 70 percent invested in equities -- although in a more diverse portfolio.
"I'm a very risky person," she said. "I sort of feel that you have to take some chances."
NOT with my money, I don't. Those four college educations I'm facing chase me to work every day, and I'm not about to start playing with the money I've worked so hard to put aside. When my T-bills mature, I'm planning to roll them over, not put the money in the latest start-up. I don't have the stomach for what Mr. Mucciolo thinks is fun.
"The game itself is the excitement, more than the actual reward," he said. "If every stock went up 1,000 percent, would I stop playing? No, because it's about the activity, not the result of the activity."
Or as Dr. Cohen said: "It's almost like going on a roller-coaster. You look forward to it, it's scary, but if you get through it successfully, it was quite a ride."
For the record, I hate roller-coasters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Thomas Kerr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (66%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: MEDIANET INC (66%); COCA-COLA CO (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS BABY BOOMERS (92%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BOND FUNDS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); US 401K PLANS (72%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (70%); 

PERSON: TOM MUCCIOLO (77%); STEVEN W KAYE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



608 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 6; Column 2; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: L.I. @ WORK;
Filling a Niche in the Island's Health Care Industry

BYLINE: By WARREN STRUGATCH 

 BODY:
AFTER being pronounced dead by medical personnel -- twice -- Charles Lobello, 64, was feeling particularly appreciative of his current rehabilitative facility.
At two hospitals "they told me I'm a walking miracle," said the Flushing resident and emphysema sufferer. "I think the people who work here are the miracles." 
 "Here" is the Glengariff Health Care Center, a 262-bed subacute care center housed in a former mansion in Glen Cove. Glengariff, and a 120-bed sister facility in Port Jefferson, help hospital patients make the transition from acute care to home in a resplendent setting.
Mr. Lobello said he does not recall the circumstances of his most recent brush with death, but when he regained consciousness last month it was not in the Flushing hospital where he was admitted, but in a sunny room of Glengariff, one of the Pratt estates and originally known as Poplar Hill.
The Gold Coast mansion, built in 1907, was turned into a nursing center in 1948. In 1971 a developer, Irwin Miness, bought the property and put up a new nursing home, reserving the mansion for administrative use. A quarter century later his son Michael turned the mansion into a subacute care provider, one of a few on Long Island dedicated to that niche.
The niche reflects changing medical economics: hospitals provide increasingly expensive medical care while curtailing length of stay, while community hospitals, which once provided lower levels of care for longer time periods, now focus on more lucrative specialties.
Most patients are in middle- to late-middle age, suffering from neuromuscular disorders, bone fractures, brain and spinal cord injuries, and amputations. During an average stay of about 25 days, they receive medical and therapeutic services intended to support their return to independent living.
The proprietor's ambitions extend far beyond Long Island. Certain that subacute care is destined to grow, and determined to speed that process, two years ago Mr. Miness launched an independent providers' organization, the New York Health Providers and Subacute Network. It has grown to 13 members who collectively provide 700 acute beds in the greater New York area. Mr. Miness, a developer's son who inherited the trade's fondness for superlatives, calls it "the largest subacute care network in the Northeast."
While common in other parts of the country, subacute care remains unusual on Long Island and throughout New York. The state has not defined standards for subacute care centers.
"At first the idea of a subacute was difficult for doctors here to accept," said Dr. Luigi Capobianco, a senior partner with the North Country Community Physicians, a medical practice based in Glen Cove. "We hadn't been trained in this approach. But we see it's good for the patient. Among physicians, acceptance keeps growing."
The approach, in this case, brings a business consultant's efficiency emphasis to bear on health care delivery, where costs continue to far outpace inflation. At the Glenhaven Health Care Organization, which encompasses Mr. Miness's two facilities, costs are cut by making certain services available at nearby hospitals or clinics. For example, both centers accept patients around the clock, but neither has an emergency room. Nurses provide care that has traditionally been provided directly by doctors.
Its advocates say the practice allows physicians to expand their caseload. "The nurse practitioners are my eyes and ears," said Dr. Capobianco, who spends 12 to 14 hours a week at Glengariff, treating patients from his practice.
Occupying a niche somewhere between the single-minded focus on medical service delivery characterized by today's hospitals and the geriatric, residential orientation of most long-term facilities, the Glengariff centers look well beyond those models, at the same time working within the restraints imposed by both regulatory agencies and third-party payers. The physical therapy area is plush enough to be the gym at a private resort; staffers are attentive and walls are decorated with calming prints of floral arrangements and evocative landscapes. Promotional materials tout the center as a "beautiful, peaceful retreat" offering "a panoramic view of Long Island's Gold Coast."
It is easy to imagine Frederick B. Pratt, the original owner, returning home any day.
Mr. Miness described the center as a rehabilitative and complex medical subacute health care facility catering to a niche that has previously been overlooked: too healthy for hospitals, too young for a nursing home, too ill at the moment to go home.
He said the average convalescent is aged 63, although some are as young as 16. "This is not a nursing home population," he said. "These people are younger, mentally aware. They are here for a 23-day average stay. Long-term-care patients stay 18 months on average, in comparison. So this is a different population in every way, neither acute nor long-term."
While many other places offer subacute care services, only a few market to patients, insurers and hospital discharge planners as offering that specific level of service in all of their facility.
"We have made an enormous adjustment, and investment, to be able to say we do this," Mr. Miness said. "Staffing costs are higher. Pharmacy costs have escalated enormously. Meal costs have as well, and we have totally upgraded them in terms of quality and choice."
During a tour of Glengariff, its chief operating officer, Kenneth R. Winston, greeted many patients by name and chatted with rehab staff about their progress.
"We make it a point not to have a hospital kind of environment," Mr. Winston said as he walked past an indoor shuffleboard court. Pointing to one of the dozens of colorful prints framed and displayed on the walls, he added, "The worst thing in a residential environment is sterility. You won't find that feeling here."
While several other organizations on Long Island offer subacute services, the total number of beds is still well under 500, clearly below need, according to Bill Pascocello, incoming president of the New York State Health Facilities Association.
"We're in discussion with the state to create a subacute category, so facilities will be able to explain to consumers clearly and precisely the level of care they are offering," said Ed Stafford, executive director of the industry group.
On a recent afternoon, Jennie Bugge was sitting in a cozy room outfitted with a stove, oven and refrigerator. The 81-year-old Elmont resident, who suffered a stroke and was transferred to Glengariff three weeks ago, sat in a wheelchair while an occupational therapist helped her learn again how to prepare simple meals.
"This is just a sandwich, but these days it takes me quite a while to do so and then clean up," she said with an uncomplaining smile. "They're helping me here so when I go home I can do it by myself."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael Miness, president of Glenhaven Health Care Organization, at his Glengariff subacute care facility in the former Frederick Pratt mansion in Glen Cove. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GLENGARIFF HEALTH CARE CENTER (GLEN COVE, NY) COMMUNITY PHYSICIANS NETWORK (50%); GLENGARIFF HEALTH CARE CENTER (90%); NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLENGARIFF HEALTH CARE CENTER (GLEN COVE, NY) GLENGARIFF HEALTH CARE CENTER (90%); NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; THERAPY AND REHABILITATION; HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (91%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (76%); NURSING HOMES (76%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (75%); CHRONIC OBSTRUCTIVE PULMONARY DISEASE (72%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (72%); BRAIN INJURIES (70%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (69%); SPINAL CORD INJURIES (63%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%); 

PERSON: STRUGATCH, WARREN IRWIN MINESS (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



609 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 11; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1193 words

HEADLINE: Old Baltimore Inner-City High-Rise Gets a New Life

BYLINE: By CHARLES BELFOURE 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
WHEN the elegant marble lobby and mosaic-tiled corridors are restored in an $8 million renovation that is to be completed next month, the Riviera apartment house will be the fourth of five onetime luxury high-rises on what was once one of this city's most prestigious streets to be rehabilitated in the last six years.
It will join the Emersonian, the Esplanade and Temple Gardens, all of which have been refurbished in recent years. The reconstruction has included replacing the floors of rabbit-warren-like apartments to create more spacious units that are closer to the buildings' original layouts. 
 The Riviera's developers have set market-rate rents for its apartments, seeking affluent tenants for the inner-city location by emphasizing such things as a new entrance to the building from a fenced and gated parking lot and the equipping of all apartments with a T-1 high-speed Internet connection.
Traditionally a city of two- and three-story homes, Baltimore built few large apartment houses before World War II, but these four buildings on Druid Park Lake Drive overlooking the city's main park and its reservoir were the finest of their kind from 1912 to the early 1960's. Now after 35 years of decline, they are again desirable places to live.
The six-story 92,000-square-foot Riviera was built in 1914. It was vacant when it was foreclosed on by the Housing and Urban Development Department in the mid-1990's. The building was acquired by the Baltimore City Department of Housing and Community Development, which issued a request for proposals for its reuse.
In 1998, the team of Pennrose Properties, a development firm from Philadelphia, and Reservoir Hill Hope, a local nonprofit developer, won the right to rehabilitate the Riviera. The project was the first in Baltimore for Pennrose, a company that has developed more than 5,000 units of multifamily housing, including many historic properties, in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Delaware and Washington.
Renovations in the 1960's and 1970's had cut the apartments into a warren of tiny units for subsidized housing, totally obliterating most of the original apartment layouts. One of the few things left from the 1914 design was a six-story-spiral fire escape slide, discovered behind a wall during demolition.
The Riviera originally had eight apartments per floor. It now has nine units per floor: seven two-bedrooms of 1,200 to 1,600 square feet, and two one-bedrooms of about 700 square feet. All 54 units have either open porches or enclosed sun rooms with views of the park or downtown Baltimore.
To redesign the apartments, the building had to be almost gutted. But because it was a Baltimore City landmark and eligible for state and federal tax credit equity for its historic status, many elements were retained. The lobby, with walls of marble and a coffered plaster ceiling, and the mosaic-tiled corridor floors with their original plaster cove moldings were all integrated into the new design, along with new lighting.
As an additional condition for historic tax credit status, four apartments facing the park on the sixth floor and one apartment each on floors one through five, a total of nine units, had to retain or duplicate original interior detailing, like window trim, parquet flooring and baseboards. The brick and stone Classical Revival exterior along with its sheet metal cornice were restored.
The Riviera's market-rate apartments are intended for professionals who work in the city. Rents will be $560 to $800 for the two-bedrooms and $600 for the one-bedrooms.
The building is two miles northwest of the Inner Harbor, the city's hottest rental market, where rents start at $800 for a one-bedroom and $1,200 for two.
"The Riviera will have all the amenities of a high-scale building," said Mark Dambly, vice president and a partner of Pennrose. "There'll be a business center in the basement that offers Internet access, fax and copying machines, as well as a fitness center." A new entrance at the rear of the building will lead to a gated parking lot.
A completely market-rate building tailored for professionals in this location is unusual. The building abuts Reservoir Hill, a once affluent neighborhood of elegant town houses that has been in decline since the early 1960's. Some in the neighborhood are pleased that the units are not subsidized. "This is a sign that says that this community is worth investing in," said Curtis Jones, the board president of Reservoir Hill Hope and pastor of nearby Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church.
Aside from the developer's own equity and the historic tax credits, Pennrose received $5 million in loans from HUD and Baltimore City.
By the early 1990's, the Emersonian, the Esplanade and Temple Gardens had suffered the same fate as the Riviera. When the State of Maryland decided to package all of them in a request for proposals in 1994, the Emersonian and the Esplanade were in such rundown condition that the remaining tenants had to be moved to Temple Gardens.
Roizman Development of Plymouth Meeting, Pa., and the Baltimore Housing Partnership won the contract and called the project Renaissance Plaza. Since the three buildings made up the Eutaw-Madison Apartment House National Register District, they were eligible for historic tax credit equity.
LIKE the Riviera, each building had interior features, like distinctive lobbies and corridors, to preserve. "Besides restoring the exteriors, we established historic zones to be preserved," said Patricia Massey, who was project manager and director of the Baltimore Housing Partnership and who now runs her own firm, Katia Development.
The oldest of the three, the nine-story Esplanade, built in 1912, was the first to be completed in 1994. Temple Gardens, at 14 stories the tallest building in Baltimore when it was built in 1926, came next in 1995.
The last to be finished, in 1996, was the Emersonian, an eight-story building constructed in 1915 by Issac Emerson, the creator of Bromo-Seltzer.
With 84 of the 301 apartments at market-rate rents and the rest either subsidized or with income restrictions, the three buildings have had a 99 percent occupancy rate. The entire cost of Renaissance Plaza was $20 million.
The fifth apartment house, at 903 Druid Park Lake Drive -- adjacent to the Riviera -- is vacant. It is on the market for $525,000.
Until the early 1900's, Baltimore's wealthy lived in town houses in the center city or in suburban villas at its outskirts. Apartment living was considered lower class until the first luxury apartment house was built on Eutaw Place, an elite residential district. Once the rich adopted this life style, other apartment buildings were erected, notably at Druid Park Lake Drive, which intersects the entry to Eutaw Place.
Still, high-rise apartment living (six stories or more by Baltimore's definition) had limited appeal, and fewer than two dozen were built before World War II. "A lot of people said these buildings should be demolished, but we re-established that living along the lake was a glamorous thing," Ms. Massey said.
 
Map of Maryland highlighting Baltimore
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riviera, building at left, with 54 apartments, is to have market-rate rents. (Marty Katz for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); DELAWARE, USA (67%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: PENNROSE PROPERTIES (71%); BALTIMORE CITY DEPARTMENT (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE CITY DEPARTMENT (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); UNITED STATES (90%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (72%); DELAWARE, USA (67%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); LOBBYING (89%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (86%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (78%); PUBLIC HOUSING (78%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); TAX LAW (63%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: BELFOURE, CHARLES

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



610 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 4; Column 3; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND JOURNAL;
Celebrating the Man Who Celebrates Ships

BYLINE: By MARCELLE S. FISCHLER; E-mail address: lijournal@nytimes.com

 BODY:
ASK Frank O. Braynard about airplanes and he'll reply with words like ghastly, ugly and unpleasant. Talk about cars and he'll dismiss you with a wave of his hand. "The automobile is a passing fad," he said.
But question Mr. Braynard about ocean liners, ask him how many smokestacks the Titanic had (four) and watch the smile crinkle through his wrinkles. Then he'll happily whisk you to his inner sanctum, a book-, file- and memorabilia-stuffed area in the heart of his Sea Cliff basement stacked with information about ships. Breathing hard -- the stairs are not easy to maneuver at age 84 -- he'll take out the framed sketch of the Leviathan that he drew in 1923. 
 "I was able to draw the Leviathan as a 7-year-old child would, but I misspelled my own name," said Mr. Braynard, a maritime historian and artist. "Which is most important? The ship of course, not my name."
Years later, he interviewed 3,000 people and wrote six encyclopedic volumes about the boat, dubbing it "the world's greatest ship." Among the troops who voyaged on the liner after it was seized from Germany was a young assistant secretary of the navy, Franklin D. Roosevelt.
"Ships made America; I love being involved with ships and ship people," Mr. Braynard said, pulling open a drawer brimming with drawings and paintings, including a poster of the Lusitania, a cutaway of the Royal Caribbean Line's Voyager of the Sea, and the Normandie.
The stories of the cathedrals that cruise the seas tumble forth, enough anecdotes to fill the 37 books Mr. Braynard has written and illustrated, from his 1947 tome "Lives of the Liners" to two volumes in the works. Note the piles of postcard reproductions of his pen and ink sketches of ships from the Exodus to the Fire Islander ferry. Among his nautical souvenirs: a large metal "S" from the bow of the Stockholm. When it hit the Andrea Doria in 1956, that was the only letter that survived.
In his second-floor office, Mr. Braynard is compiling sketches for a book about smokestacks. Only 11 vessels had four, his beloved Leviathan only three. The Betsy Ross, a flop of a ship, had an unusual single smokestack. He keeps 400 maritime paintings in the attic.
Born in Sea Cliff, raised in Glen Cove, Mr. Braynard went to bed by the 7 o'clock ship whistles in Hempstead Harbor and traveled to his family's summer home on Martha's Vineyard by steamship.
For his lifelong celebration of shipping, Mr. Braynard received an honorary doctorate from the United States Merchant Marine Academy in Kings Point during commencement exercises on Monday. But there was a time when his seafaring expertise was not enough.
"I flunked my Ph.D.," Mr. Braynard said, recalling the two oral examinations he flubbed as a doctoral candidate in history at Columbia University. "All I knew was ships."
The experience made him realize that shipping was his calling. He went to work for the American Merchant Marine Institute, a trade association, then got a job as a ship reporter at The New York Herald Tribune, later going into public relations.
Though sailing wasn't really his area of interest, Mr. Braynard brought the parade of tall ships to New York Harbor, first in 1964, then as Operation Sail '76 in honor of the bicentennial.
In 1979 he became curator of the American Merchant Marine Museum at the Merchant Marine Academy. He retired earlier this year.
But Mr. Braynard and his wife, Doris, continue to ply the seas. In August, they're slated for three one-week cruises on the Disney Magic. On board, he'll lecture about ocean liners and she'll give talks on opera.
Where are they going? "I don't know," Mr. Braynard said. "The Caribbean somewhere. I don't care where we go. It's the ship that counts to me."
 
STAR Graduates
As a young adolescent, Harold Jean-Louis was terribly introverted. He was a good student, but too shy to raise his hand or give a presentation in class.
Though she excelled in class, Leniece Dean had an attitude problem. When her counselor tried to speak with her, Leniece would walk away.
But when they entered the ninth grade at Wyandanch Memorial High School, Harold and Leniece were offered slots in the STAR program (Success Through Academic Readiness), sponsored by the Lake Success-based Institute for Student Achievement. Like the 397 students in the academic enrichment and counseling program in the Hempstead, Roosevelt and Wyandanch schools, they were identified as at-risk youth.
During the 10 hours a week they spent in the STAR classroom at their high school over the next four years, Mr. Jean-Louis, 18, and Ms. Dean, 18, received help with homework, reviewed for Regents and prepared for the SAT. They attended communications and career workshops. Counselors coached them on social skills, lauded their every achievement and helped with family issues. To broaden their horizons, the STAR pupils visited the Apollo Theater, took ski trips, ice skated in Rockefeller Center and went on college tours.
Yesterday Mr. Jean-Louis, the son of Haitian immigrants who barely speak English, graduated as the valedictorian of his class. Though Wyandanch doesn't offer either advanced-placement or honors courses, when he starts Syracuse University this fall, Mr. Jean-Louis will have accumulated 21 college credits. Ms. Dean was the class salutatorian. She plans to study business administration at St. John's University in Queens.
Of the 24 seniors in the STAR program at Wyandanch High, 20 plan to go to college.
"In my freshman year, there were a lot of different groups I wasn't part of," said Mr. Jean-Louis, the first in his family to attend college. "I was more of an observer. This program came along and I started speaking in class and giving presentations. It's made me more outspoken."
Ms. Dean said the STAR instructors made sure their students succeeded. "If you didn't want to go to class, they walked you to class; they kept tabs on us," Ms. Dean said.
During her final semester of high school, Ms. Dean studied fashion merchandising and design at the Lewis A. Wilson Technological Center, a vocational school in Dix Hills. After college, she plans to start a fashion design company with her best friend and fellow STAR student, Kellie Wyatt, 18.
"Our area is perceived to be villainous and recalcitrant," Mr. Jean-Louis said, reviewing his valedictory theme. "What we are perceived to be is not what we are. Everything they said we couldn't do, we have done. We set the precedent that we can achieve anything we set our minds to."
 
Top Twins
Since the day they were born, each weighing 7 pounds 14 ounces, Jason and Cory Mingelgreen have done just about everything together. They share a room in their Cedarhurst home. They have the same group of friends. So it wasn't surprising when the 17-year-old identical twins split the top spots in Lawrence High School's class of 2000.
"We just try to help each other," Jason said. "It was a friendly competition. I tried to do better than him, but obviously I didn't come out at the top." Cory, the class valedictorian, finished his high school career with a 99.05 average. Jason, the salutatorian, had a 98.77.
Even their rigorous schedule was almost identical: advanced-placement English, advanced-placement physics, advanced-placement government and BC calculus. They were in different advanced-placement economics sections. Jason took advanced-placement Spanish while Cory took a math projects course.
Usually they did their homework together. "It goes quicker that way," Cory said. "We're definitely able to help each other. In my case, because I'm not the super all-around student, I know I wouldn't be No. 1 if it weren't for him helping me."
Jason, who was the editor in chief and sports editor of the school paper, The Mental Pabulum, said he is the better writer and linguist. Cory, who placed fourth in mathematics in the Intel competition in May, is the math and science honcho.
Both work for the Five Towns Community Chest Youth Board. Both are Advanced Placement Scholars and in the National Honor Society. Both like to play basketball on their driveway. But there are differences.
"He may be No. 1, but I'm older," said Jason, born five minutes before his brother. "I'm taller," said Cory, who stands 6-foot-1, nearly two inches taller than his twin.
After working this summer as cabana boys in Atlantic Beach, the Mingelgreens are going separate ways for the first time. Cory will attend Lehigh University's integrated business and engineering honors program. Jason plans to study broadcast journalism and business at Syracuse.
At Lawrence High School's recent senior awards ceremony, Cory received eight awards, Jason got seven.
But who's counting? "It would have been better if I was No. 1 and he was No. 2," Jason said.
"I disagree," Cory replied.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frank O. Braynard, left, receiving an honorary doctorate last Monday from the Merchant Marine Academy. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY ROYAL CARIBBEAN INTERNATIONAL (54%); UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (55%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPS AND SHIPPING; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); PAINTING (88%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (86%); MARINE SHIPPING (77%); NAVIES (77%); ARMED FORCES (71%); HISTORY (67%); 

PERSON: BRAYNARD, FRANK O; JEAN-LOUIS, HAROLD; DEAN, LENIECE; MINGELGREEN, JASON; MINGELGREEN, CORY; FISCHLER, MARCELLE S FRANK O BRAYNARD (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



611 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 8; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 765 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS;
When the Utility Company Is Not Con Ed

BYLINE: By JAYSON BLAIR 

DATELINE: EASTCHESTER

 BODY:
GEORGE TURNER, a real estate agent and entrepreneur, began to despise Con Edison more than two decades ago. For 21 years, he sent the company monthly checks for electricity and gas service for one simple reason: there was no alternative.
But in June 1999, Mr. Turner received what he considers a blessing in the mail: a letter from Con Edison with a long list of utility companies he could sign up with. State deregulation was forcing the company to open the door to competitors. 
"To tell you the truth, I was just very fed up with Con Edison," Mr. Turner, 64, said. "They have a very strange attitude when you call about something. Anytime I have a chance to deal with someone other than Con Edison, I will take that opportunity, even if it is a slim amount I'll save."
Mr. Turner has signed up with SmartEnergy.com, and while he is only saving a couple of dollars a month, he is pleased. It is refreshing, he said, to hear the voice of someone who was eager to have his business. "Plus, it is a dot-com company, and I am on the computer all day," he said, "so it is easy to deal with."
Some other companies are Central Hudson Enterprises Corporation of Poughkeepsie; Econnergy Energy Company of Pomona, N.J.; and Robinson Enery of Elmsford.
Thousands of residents have signed up with new providers in recent months, according to the State Public Service Commission. And many more may do so as a result of state action last month lifting price controls and allowing utilities to base prices on market conditions. That means that over the summer, when demand is high, Con Edison can raise rates, if it chooses.
SmartEnergy of Woburn, Mass., is offering a yearly fixed-rate plan, which would not be subject to month-to-month rate fluctuations. Company officials would not release the number of Westchester residents who had signed up, but they said that 20 percent of their New York State customers are in the county.
"A lot of people don't really understand what they are getting into this summer," said Gautam Chandra, the president and chief executive of SmartEnergy.
"Utility rates will fluctuate this summer, and a lot of people could be paying a lot more with their host utility. "This is the time to look at other options."
For their part, Con Edison officials said they have introduced a new online service to search for the best prices to help customers avoid rate spikes.
Mr. Chandra's company has begun a multimillion-dollar marketing campaign directed at Westchester customers.
The change was one step in a three-year drive to eliminate many of the monopoly-era pricing regulations governing the state's electricity industry and to help Con Edison ease into a more competitive market, said David C. Flanagan, a spokesman for the Public Service Commission.
The SmartEnergy.com campaign, which included billboards and radio spots, began on April 1. On a number of levels, the push comes at a difficult time for Con Edison. The company is still suffering from last year's public relations setbacks after blackouts in Westchester and New York City. And last month county officials filed a lawsuit to prevent the company from passing on to consumers the costs of a radioactive leak at the Indian Point 2 nuclear plant.
Since April, consumers have been charged an additional $2 a month on average to cover the $600,000 a day that Con Edison says it is spending to buy replacement power from other utilities because of the shutdown of the plant.
SmartEnergy is among several online electricity providers that have slowly been expanding across the country. Customers can sign up for service by logging onto its Web site at www.smartenergy.com and then entering their ZIP code to see what is offered in their area.
Although the Con Edison network is still used to deliver power, deregulation has forced the company to let smaller providers sell electricity to Con Edison's customers -- possibly at a lower rate.
Jon F. Sorenson, the chief marketing officer of SmartEnergy, said the company was also offering a combined fixed-rate plan for natural gas. He added that customers receive one bill for both services and a bonus of $25 and 1,000 airline miles for signing up. The air miles plan continues, with customers receiving one mile for each $1 they spend. The fixed rate plan costs about 6.59 cents per kilowatt-hour of electricity in Westchester, about a penny and a half less than the company's similar plan in Manhattan, Mr. Sorenson said.
"It still was not much of a saving," Mr. Turner noted. "But I just said, 'Thank God it is not Con Edison.' "
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Tony Lopez, chief energy operations officer, left; Jon Sorenson, chief marketing officer; Gautam Chandra, president, all of SmartEnergy.com. Top: George Turner of Eastchester. (Ed Quinn for The New York Times); (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK; SMARTENERGY (CO) CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK; SMARTENERGY (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); UTILITY RATES (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (63%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, JAYSON ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



612 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 2; Page 2; Column 4; Arts and Leisure Desk

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: JAZZ SOLOS;
Ellington's Other Side

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Regarding Ben Ratliff's thought-provoking arguments regarding the overindulgent jazz soloist and the need for a "jazz literature" "The Solo Retreats From the Spotlight in Jazz," May 28 : I found that Keith Jarrett's response to the article Letter to the Editor, June 11 partly supported, rather than denied, Mr. Ratliff's point. Yes, as Mr. Jarrett pointed out, Duke Ellington's music sounds lifeless without master improvisers to bring it to life. But let's remember, also, that Ellington is one of the few jazz artists whose ratio of solo time to notation is almost equal. It is, of course, the solos that make the written music come alive, but the reverse is equally true. How many jazz artists today are producing notated material that is as lengthy, complex and perfectly ever-present as Duke? I believe that jazz is certainly in need of more Ben Websters, but perhaps in more dire need of composers like Ellington. No one is denying that jazz springs to life in the midst of a great solo. But can anyone deny that jazz needs to grow by expressing itself in new and perhaps more challenging ways compositionally? I believe a critical issue lies unaddressed, one that is fundamental to the ascendancy of jazz soloing: economics. All over America, and especially in New York, jazz musicians have been making about $50 a night for more than 30 years. And since Duke's time the performing opportunities (the real way the music grows) have considerably diminished. How can you ask a musician to rehearse complicated charts that may take him or her hours or days to master under these conditions? His response, whether tacit or out loud, will be to turn the composer down in favor of a situation where he can "just blow." Mingus went through this 40 years ago; nothing's changed. If more of us had a Lincoln Center to commission us, trust me, there'd be a lot of ink flying around.
 
JOEL HARRISON
Manhattan 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (53%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%); NEW YORK, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. JAZZ & BLUES (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); 

PERSON: KEITH JARRETT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



613 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 4; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Three Scholars' Tales of Courage

BYLINE: By KATE STONE LOMBARDI 

 BODY:
TALK to any of the newly named Jandon Scholars, and the word resilience comes to mind. Battling financial and family problems, these students struggled to maintain their grades, their equilibrium and their dreams of a college education.
The first 12 recipients of the new scholarships, which recognize academic achievement among low-income high school students, will head to college this fall. The students, from public high schools in Westchester, will each receive $10,000 over four years to help pay tuition. 
The program is financed by the Jandon Foundation, a private family foundation started by Jane and Donald Cecil of Harrison. Mr. Cecil is a co-founder of Cumberland Associates, an investment firm in Manhattan. The County Social Services Department identified promising students whose families were living below the poverty level. Scholarship recipients were then selected by an academic panel, which considered the students' grades, Scholastic Achievement Test scores and character. Here are some of their stories:
 
Neelam Gidwaney
Neelam Gidwaney still remembers her father's beautiful hair. But that image is soon replaced with those of his illness -- epileptic convulsions, wheelchairs and partial paralysis. Neelam's father, who became ill with a brain tumor when she was in second grade, died a month before her 16th birthday.
"He was sick for most of my childhood," Neelam said. "I have a vivid memory of my mom helping him out of the shower and seeing for the first time that he had no hair. I was just shocked. I kept thinking, "What's going on with my dad?"'
To protect Neelam, her family held back the truth of her father's diagnosis, even telling her once: "Daddy is like tarnished silver. The doctors will polish him up and make him shiny again."
But the reality of her father's illness colored her childhood. Medical and financial crises were constant, and Neelam began working in fifth grade. She earned money in elementary school by baby-sitting. By high school she had held jobs as a lifeguard, a cashier, a pharmacist's assistant and a restaurant hostess.
Despite all the pressures, Neelam maintained an outstanding academic record at Dobbs Ferry High School, with a 3.8 grade point average in advanced placement courses, National Honor Society membership and many achievement awards.
This fall she will attend SUNY Binghamton, where she has been accepted into a combined college and medical degree program. After completing four undergraduate years, she is guaranteed admission at Syracuse Medical School.
Becoming a doctor has been a dream since childhood. "When my father was diagnosed with cancer it was hard for me to accept it," she said. "And no one would take the time to explain it to us. Part of my wanting to be a doctor is that I wanted the peace of mind of knowing what really happened and why it happened. Even young children have a right to know."
 
Kelly Marie Jones
In her school's production of "Peter Pan," Kelly Jones played one of the lost children. It was poignantly fitting. When Kelly was 15, her mother left home, taking most of the family's possessions and leaving behind a note saying she not be back.
Kelly's father, who was estranged from her mother, then tried to prove that he was not her father. DNA tests proved that he was, and he had to continue paying child support.
Yet throughout this trauma, Kelly maintained her 94.5 average at Peekskill High School. She played on a number of sports and performed in musicals. This fall, she will attend SUNY Oneota.
"I just knew I had to make my life better," Kelly said. "I wanted to be stronger than my mom, and I had to overcome what had happened."
Kelly said the support of teachers and good friends helped see her through difficult times. She and her three younger siblings live with her grandparents, who receive assistance from Social Services. Kelly works at Macy's about 20 hours a week. After college, she hopes to pursue a master's degree and a doctorate. Her dream is to become a high school social studies teacher.
"I realize I have many goals in life, and that it's going to take a lot of hard work, but I feel I'm ready for the challenge," she said.
 
Deyci Rodriguez
Deyci Rodriguez came to this country from the Dominican Republic when she was 5. She learned English quickly, became an honors student and was active in school sports. Both her parents held skilled jobs, and they lived in a big house in Sleepy Hollow.
But life began to change for Decyi in her teens. First, her father became ill and could no longer work. Shortly after that, Deyci's mother injured her back and had to leave her job as a nurse. The family moved to an apartment and began to receive public assistance.
For Deyci, there was no more time for cross country, track or softball. She had always held some kind of job while attending school, but now she works 30 hours a week. She returns home from her job as a cashier at 10:30 p.m. and then begins her homework, sometimes working until 2 or 3 a.m. to finish her studies.
Through it all, she has maintained a grade point average of over 94. This fall she will attend New York University. She is interested in a business career and hopes one day to own her own accounting business.
As a Hispanic, Deyci said she had often been told that women were not as strong or intelligent as men. Deyci said her inspiration has always been her mother. Mrs. Rodriguez, who grew up in a poor village in the Dominican Republic, completed college and got her nursing degree.
"My mother has raised me to be a strong, independent young woman," Deyci said. "There no longer is a question of my success. I will succeed -- the question now is when and where."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jandon Scholars include Neelam Gidwaney, above, Deyci Rodriguez, left, and Kelly Marie Jones, top, helping to teach 10th-grade class at Peekskill High School. (Susan B. Markisz for The New York Times); (Chris Maynard for The New York Times); (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: JANDON FOUNDATION JANDON FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: JANDON FOUNDATION JANDON FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; SCHOLARSHIPS AND FELLOWSHIPS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); GRADES & GRADING (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); TUITION FEES (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); FOUNDATIONS (77%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); PHARMACISTS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (72%); CANCER (72%); PARALYSIS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (71%); EPILEPSY (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (70%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); 

PERSON: GIDWANEY, NEELAM; JONES, KELLY MARIE; RODRIGUEZ, DEYCI; LOMBARDI, KATE STONE KELLY MARIE JONES (89%); NEELAM GIDWANEY (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



614 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 6; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 995 words

HEADLINE: DOWN THE SHORE;
Help Wanted: Flexible Hours, Ocean View

BYLINE: By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: STONE HARBOR

 BODY:
Madlynn Zurawski collapsed into the corner chair near the stage in Coffee Talk, her little coffeehouse in this South Jersey shore town. The morning rush was through and Ms. Zurawski had a few minutes to recharge before the lunch crowd.
Business is great, but Ms. Zurawski has little time to enjoy that fact. It seems that the economy has also been good for the young people who used to beg for summer jobs at the shore, and the supply of job seekers is scarce. 
 The lament stretches from Sandy Hook to Cape May: The usual torrent of young people who want to work hard, earn some cash, party hard and come back for another cycle the next day is dwindling. With a few exceptions, jobs -- even the glamorous job of lifeguard -- are either going wanting or have taken a lot more time and effort to fill.
Richard Samuelson, owner of Poor Richard's Inn, a Cape May bed and breakfast, spoke of the young people who have traditionally come from Ireland to work at the Jersey Shore. "The Irish kids used to come here, work very hard and party hard," he said. "Now, I think the economy is good there, so the kids who come here do so mostly to party, not work." .
So, Mr. Samuelson said, it takes more to lure workers. "I'm willing to pay $10 an hour for chambermaid work, which is mostly changing sheets, but even high school girls reject that," he said. "High school. Ten bucks an hour for clean work. It's a new world."
That world includes fewer college students looking for work. Mz. Zurawski said:"I have had to hire more local high school kids than ever before. Rentals have gone up in price around here, so I think there are fewer college kids who want to come down and spend that kind of money."
Across from Ms. Zurawski sat Jennifer Dailey, who owns People, People, a women's clothing store around the corner from Coffee Talk. Ms. Dailey has always been able to hire knowledgeable employees a little older than the summertime norm.
"My ideal person, well, now they are tending bar because that's where the money is," she said. "It's tough for me to have to hire high school kids, but that seems to be what I have to do. It's a new reality."
Nor was his situation at all unique.
"It seems -- and I don't want to sound like an old fogy," said 48-year-old Bill Gehlhaus, co-owner of Keansburg Amusement Park and Runaway Rapids Waterpark in Monmouth County, "that work is not on a lot of young people's minds.
"Maybe some are going to school, but I'm thinking that Mom and Dad have a little more money and are giving them bigger allowances so they don't have to work in the summer," Mr. Gehlhaus said.
"We've never had it like this year," he continued. "We have 175 employees, and we'd really like to have 200. Sometimes, my brother Hank and I have to get out and man the rides, and we own the place. We have good workers, but you don't want them working too many hours early in the summer and burn them out. It's a long summer and you dont want to over-stress them."
Down on the Wildwood boardwalk, the Morey Organization has had to be creative with incentives to keep the 1,700 seasonal workers at its three amusement piers and two water parks.
"We know that kids who come to the shore to work come for social reasons as well," said Denise Beckson, the Morey operations manager. "So we sponsor a soccer team and a volleyball team. We have pizza parties and one after-work party each week. We do scavenger hunts and give prizes, like backpacks, in recognition of good work.
"It helps, especially since most of the people we hire are 18 to 22," she said. "When you can work outside and later party with 1,700 people your own age, we figure that's a way to attract good workers."
Morey uses mostly American college students early in the summer, but by mid-August, when they begin to go back to school, the remainder of the Morey workforce is foreign students on four-month work visas whom Morey and other employers find through student-worker agencies. In the past, most of these workers came from Ireland. But Ms. Beckson said this year's crew comes from Jamaica, Belarus, Russia, Poland, Finland, Ireland -- "really all over."
Ms. Beckson said Morey likes these student workers because they have to be motivated to apply for the work visa, and some take English lessons to qualify. "They can often be better than the American workers," she said.
Frank Russo-Alesi, the borough administrator in Belmar, a middle-class Monmouth County Shore resort town, said he felt he had been lucky, that summer special police and lifeguarding jobs have filled nicely. Jerome Joyce, the lieutenant of the beach patrol in Avalon, in Cape May County, said he had enough lifeguards but that beach-tag checkers have been at a premium.
"In the past you had to be 18, but now we have checkers who are 16," he said. Mr. Joyce said there were even incentive programs for beach-tag checkers: an extra $1.50 a day if they stay through Labor Day, a $25 bonus for selling extra beach tags. "It's just hard to get college kids, especially if they have to pay higher rents. They need more money, which we really can't afford. So we have to use younger girls who come down here with their parents."
Down a few miles in Stone Harbor, the main shopping drag of 96th Street is still full of help-wanted signs. Some are creative, like that at the Eagle's Eye clothing store ("Our Customers Make Our Best Employees"), and others seem a little more desperate, like the "Help Wanted" crayon-on-cardboard sign in the window of the Stone Harbor Fudge Factory.
The True Value hardware store in the middle of the shopping strip has restocked its "Help Wanted" sign shelf.
"In fact, we just finally took our own Help Wanted sign out of the window this week ourselves," said one True Value manager. "It never used to be a problem to hire people to work here for the summer. To be into the first week of summer still hiring, well, there must be a lot of well-off kids out there."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Help wanted signs are a common sight at the shore as high school students are feeling flush and college students are shut out by high rents.; In Stone Harbor, Jennifer Daley, near right, must rely on younger workers than usual at her clothing store, and Lindsay Powers of Massachusetts was surprised at how easy it was to find a job selling beach tags. (Photographs by Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PEOPLE FOR PEOPLE (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); IRELAND (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH EMPLOYMENT (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); SEASONAL WORKERS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); HOTEL HOUSEKEEPING (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); WOMEN (69%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (67%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (63%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (50%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT SIR GEORGE YOUNG (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



615 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14WC; Page 19; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Don't Blame Racial Bias In Bedford Budget Fight

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Regarding the article "Behind Bedford School Budget Fight: Economic and Ethnic Divisions" last Sunday:
As I read the article, at first I was angered. 
 After finishing the article I was incensed.
To say that the Bedford school budget was voted down because of ethnic division is totally without fact. The reason that your reporter could find nobody to be quoted about the "largely unspoken resentment" toward the Hispanic population is because it is a small, very small number of people who feel this way -- if there are any at all.
As one of the 606 Bedford Village voters to vote no on this budget, I did not do it because I am anti-Hispanic, as your article implies.
I voted no because the Bedford school board spends money as if they have unlimited money.
As a middle-class, tax-paying New Yorker, it is tough enough making ends meet. But when the cost of living goes up only 3 percent and the school board wants a raise of 8.5 percent, something is wrong.
Everybody wants better schools, but to keep on throwing money at the schools is not the answer.
We tell children to not waste the money we give them each week. To be careful and spend that money wisely, and by doing this we try to teach them to live within their means.
Why can't the Bedford school board learn this lesson?
 
MICHAEL GRAF
Bedford 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BEDFORD SCHOOL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: BEDFORD SCHOOL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. BUDGETS (93%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL BOARDS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); COST OF LIVING (73%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL GRAF BEDFORD (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



616 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 9; Page 8; Column 5; Society Desk

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS;
Rachel Freeman, Bruce Wilson

 BODY:
Rachel Marin Freeman, a daughter of Lucile and Harry L. Freeman of Chevy Chase, Md., was married yesterday to Bruce Bridges Wilson, a son of Kay Wilson and Dr. Jack Wilson of Mountain Home, Ark. The Rev. Dr. Theodore R. Rosche, a Presbyterian minister, performed the ceremony at the Decatur House Museum in Washington.
Ms. Freeman, 32, is keeping her name. She is the Midwest economic development specialist for the Department of Housing and Urban Development in Chicago. From 1995 to 1997, she was the general director of the Volkhov Business Incubator, which assists businesses operated by women in Volkhov, Russia; she remains a director of the organization. She graduated from Middlebury College and received an M.B.A. from the University of Michigan. 
 Her father, who retired as the executive vice president of American Express in New York, is the chairman and founder of the Mark Twain Institute, an organization in Chevy Chase that gives grants for economic research. Her mother retired as the head of the public library in Poolesville, Md.
Mr. Wilson, 34, is a senior manager at Andersen Consulting in Chicago. He received a bachelor's degree and an M.B.A. from Washington University. His mother retired as an English teacher at the Mountain Home High School. His father is a family physician in Mountain Home.
The couple, who met at a wedding in 1998, credit the bride's dog, Sunder, a Central Asian shepherd, with bringing them together. When they were first dating, Ms. Freeman was touched by the care Mr. Wilson lavished on Sunder when the dog became ill.
"I knew then that he was a good person," she said.
The dog also played a part in moving the couple closer together and keeping them there. Early in their relationship, Ms. Freeman decided to move to Chicago, where Mr. Wilson was living, because she felt the climate would suit the dog. Later, Mr. Wilson passed up a job in Singapore, which was too steamy for Sunder.
"I have no illusions that if I weren't somebody who really enjoys that sort of close man-dog relationship, the connection wouldn't have been there," Mr. Wilson said.
While the dog did not attend the wedding, her picture was affixed above a copy of the couple's wedding vows, which the guests signed.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Beverly Rezneck)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACN (NYSE) (69%); AXP (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ACCENTURE PLC (69%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); ASIA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); FAMILY PRACTICE (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (66%); CITIES (56%); 

PERSON: FREEMAN, RACHEL MARIN; WILSON, BRUCE BRIDGES BRUCE BRIDGES WILSON (93%); RACHEL MARIN FREEMAN (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



617 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14; Page 8; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 500 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: HARLEM;
Yesterday, a Grimy S.R.O.; Today, a Tourists' Haven

BYLINE: By NINA SIEGAL 

 BODY:
The Park View Hotel, at 55 West 110th Street, was once a landing pad for West African immigrants, providing an enduring, if bitter, first impression of New York. Five years ago, there was a term for it: "Doing the 110."
While they lived there, these recent arrivals worked as taxi drivers, street vendors and students, trying to climb the rungs of New York's economic ladder to escape the grimy gray single-room-occupancy hotel, which they shared with a handful of native New Yorkers, many of them welfare recipients. 
 Fast forward five years:
A group of young Swedish tourists linger in the hotel lobby, which is painted in vibrant blues, oranges and yellows and has large leatherette ottomans dispersed around low-lying tables. They plan a day of trips downtown, as clerks at the front desk, wearing matching orange suits, chirpily greet arriving guests from France or England.
The Park View, like much of this block on the northern edge of Central Park, has undergone an enormous transition in recent years. Now a refurbished youth hostel, the hotel, owned by Tenrit Studios, charges visitors $26 to $110 a night for either a shared or private room.
Among the other nearby improvements, the Harlem Meer, the 11-acre lake at the northeastern edge of the park, was restored during the 1990's with the help of the Central Park Conservancy. And the Transit Authority recently completed renovation of the subway station at 110th Street and Lenox Avenue, which had been shuttered for 15 years.
Responding to the change, local businesses have cleaned up their storefronts and added matching green awnings to create a uniform look. Aliyyah Baylor, president of Make My Cake, which owns a bakery on 110th Street, grew up in the neighborhood and has seen the change.
"You've got the same people here, but the appearance is different," she said. "There has been a redeveloping of businesses that were not in operation for many years. You have landlords who are now going for a different look, more of a comfortable look, not just your average bodega."
Gunnar Carlson, a 26-year-old Swede who was visiting his fellow tourists in the Park View lobby, said he had gone to 110th Street the last time he was in New York, in 1993. "It's a lot nicer now than it was then," he said.
But not everyone sees this change as positive. Elizabeth Kane, director of the West Side S.R.O. Law Project, a tenant group, said that in the Park View renovation many tenants "were brutally treated and driven out of the building."
Tenrit Studios did not respond to numerous requests for comment. But Robert Blanche, the general manager of the Park View Hotel, said 50 permanent tenants remained in the building and that the owners had tried to be sensitive to their needs since they bought the building in October 1999.
"I don't know about any complaints," he said. "But we've turned this property around 250 percent, not only for the permanent tenants but for the community at large." NINA SIEGAL
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The newly refurbished Park View Hotel at 55 West 110th Street has a brightly lit lobby and rooms that rent for $26 to $110 a night. A reminder of its rougher days is the razor wire on the roof. (Photographs by James Estrin/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "TURNAROUND: A Central Park North Revival"
The area around 110th Street and Lenox Avenue has undergone a number of changes in recent years:
 
Early 1990's -- The Harlem Meer is restored and Duck Island, a natural refuge for wild fowl, is created in its center.
1993 -- Dana Discovery Center, a science center for children at Central Park's north end, is renovated and reopened.
1996 -- Playground at north end of park is renovated.
Late 1990's -- Businesses along Lenox Avenue near 110th Street put up green awnings.
1998 -- Refurbished subway station at 110th Street and Lenox Avenue opens.
October 1999 -- Renovation of Park View Hotel begins.
April 2000 -- Park View reopens as a youth hostel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PVSB (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6035 FEDERAL SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PARK VIEW HOTEL (NYC) PARK VIEW FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARK VIEW HOTEL (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); ENGLAND (79%); FRANCE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; SINGLE-ROOM OCCUPANCY; HOSTELS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; RENTING AND LEASING HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (88%); HOTEL STAFF (78%); RETAILERS (71%); BAKERIES (63%); 

PERSON: SIEGAL, NINA SIR GEORGE YOUNG (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



618 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: FIVE QUESTIONS for BIJAN NAMDAR ZANGANEH;
Toward Oil Price Stability, Step by Step

BYLINE: By NEELA BANERJEE

DATELINE: VIENNA

 BODY:
DRESSED modestly in his native collarless garb, occasionally fingering a strand of prayer beads, Bijan Namdar Zanganeh, Iran's petroleum minister, led a contingent of similarly reserved, gray-bearded men who together played the role of wild card last week during the meeting of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries here.
When high oil prices drove OPEC to raise output in March, the Iranians, led by Mr. Zanganeh, publicly rebelled, complaining of one too many late-night phone calls to negotiators from Bill Richardson, the American energy secretary. (Ultimately, they increased their country's exports.) Last week, however, with crude oil once above $30 a barrel and OPEC again under pressure to raise production, the Iranians quickly went along with the majority. 
 After weathering the manic dips and rises of oil prices over the last 18 months, Mr. Zanganeh, like other OPEC representatives, craves stability, which he believes the plan to raise output by 708,000 barrels a day should afford. It also helped, Mr. Zanganeh said, that there were no more trans-Atlantic phone calls interrupting the talks.
Mr. Zanganeh, born in 1952, is a civil engineer by training. He became petroleum minister in 1997.
First at a press briefing and then in his hotel suite, Mr. Zanganeh discussed the rationale behind OPEC's latest decisions and their impact on the global oil market. Following are excerpts from the conversation. NEELA BANERJEE
 
Q. Have you had discussions with United States companies about developing new oil and gas fields?
 
A. We have had many discussions with U.S. companies. But they have unacceptable limitations on their activity in Iran placed on them by the administration. I don't think it's good for open and free trade. It's a decision that goes against both sides. It deprives U.S. companies from participating in our projects. We have money to develop our fields, but we would prefer to have the participation of first-class foreign companies.
 
Q. How did the atmosphere of this OPEC session vary from that of the last one, which seemed full of tension?
 
A. We had a very good atmosphere this time. In our last meeting, all the members complained of U.S. intervention. We didn't feel external political pressure this time.
 
Q. How did OPEC arrive at the figure of 708,000 barrels a day?
 
A. It was a compromise, and we will support it and respect it. We ourselves will be producing 104,000 barrels a day more. The decision was not hard, because we had decided before that if the price got up to $30 a barrel, we would increase production by 500,000 barrels a day.
And it's all very close: a matter of oil being $2 more a barrel than $30 and producing 200,000 barrels more than 500,000 barrels. That is all much the same.
We only validated our previous decision.
 
Q. How would you respond to criticism from the United States and other nations that this agreement does not go far enough to dampen high oil prices?
 
A. We felt we must be very careful in this situation to test the market. If the market needs more oil, we will produce it. We have an automatic mechanism for it. And there are only three months before our next meeting, which will give us time to see the effect of this decision. Step by step, we will test how much the market needs.
We are looking for a stable price, not necessarily high or low.
Now we are planning for oil to play a smaller role in our budget. We would like to use the revenues from oil to create funds that would support our private sector.
 
Q. What is the automatic mechanism you have now within OPEC to increase production if your latest decision does not bring down oil prices? And why is there so much secrecy around it?
 
A. This is what you call a gentlemen's agreement. Let's just say that.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In March, Iran's Bijan Namdar Zangareh resisted outside interference with OPEC. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); 

COUNTRY: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (57%); 

CITY: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (57%); 

COMPANY: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRIA (57%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (OPEC) PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (95%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); 

PERSON: ZANGAREH, BIJAN BILL RICHARDSON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



619 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business;
From Gore and Bush, Uncooked Retirement Stew

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr.

 BODY:
FEW issues point up the ideological gulf between the likely major-party presidential candidates more clearly than their approaches to inducing Americans to save more for retirement.
Vice President Al Gore, the Democrat, wants the government to provide a subsidy of as much as $3 for each $1 that a worker kicks in to his or her retirement kitty; this proposed new entitlement program is intended to favor the relative have-nots. Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, the tax-cutting Republican, will probably endorse a plan under which the kitty will be fattened by redirecting taxes that now help finance Social Security. 
 The two sides have in common a recognition that voters want Social Security's long-term health to be seriously debated, not avoided as taboo. And they share a belief that shortfalls in retirement security are best made up in the financial markets.
Mr. Bush was first to publicly sketch out a plan. But Mr. Gore, who used to attack the idea of investing Social Security money in stocks, has laid out his proposal in much greater detail.
Now that the debate has been joined in earnest, some investment advisers have begun tentatively sizing up the competing plans, neither of which is yet concrete enough to reward close financial scrutiny. Indeed, Mr. Bush has yet to provide the most crucial single number: the portion of the 12.4 percent Social Security tax, half of which is paid by employers, that he would divert into private investment accounts. That, he contends, is a job for legislators.
Despite the vagueness, though, one preliminary finding has emerged: Assuming that cash can be spared to take advantage of the government's matching offer, for most people Mr. Gore offers more.
"The Gore plan would be better," at least in terms of the greatest benefit for the greatest number, said Thomas P. Ochsenschlager, a specialist in personal taxation in the Arlington, Va., office of Grant Thornton, the accounting firm. He pointed to the way it would give a couple earning $30,000 a year and able to save $1,000 in the plan an extra $3,000 in matching money, and to how it would leave existing Social Security benefits unchanged.
BUT the Gore plan becomes much less attractive as incomes rise, with the matching money dwindling to zero for households earning more than $100,000. Other advisers, looking beyond the raw figures, take a dimmer view.
"My clients would be hard-pressed to see that they would benefit from the Gore plan," said Carol I. Johnson, a financial planner at Voellinger, Simpson & Associates, an accounting firm in Belleville, Ill. She said this group, 30 percent of whom have household incomes of less than $100,000, are more interested in ensuring the solvency of Social Security, which is neither "fixed" nor undermined by the Gore plan, than they are in a new entitlement program.
Under Mr. Gore's proposal, which would be voluntary and phased in over 10 years, the government's match would take the form of a tax credit -- a dollar-for-dollar reduction in income tax. The credit would be refundable, meaning that if it exceeded your income tax liability, the Treasury would write you a check for the difference.
Your money would be pooled with the government's in a tax-deferred account managed by professionals who would invest it broadly, avoiding individual stocks. A typical household could expect the account to swell to about $200,000 over 35 years, according to plan's architects. Funds could be tapped without penalty for college tuition, heavy medical expenses or a first home.
Mr. Bush is much bolder, proposing to modify the Social Security system itself, an initiative that he will bill as addressing impending shortfalls in the system's finances but critics say could instead put the system in greater jeopardy.
Mr. Bush has said he wants to let workers divert an unspecified share of the Social Security taxes that they and their employers pay into self-managed personal accounts. In return, the workers would agree to accept a smaller guaranteed retirement benefit from Social Security, which would be deprived of the diverted revenue.
A wide variety of specific proposals could fit into what Mr. Bush calls his "framework." But one plan that is being promoted by a close Bush adviser, Martin S. Feldstein of Harvard University, is a suitable proxy. Dr. Feldstein would have the government deposit 2 percent of each individual's income into a privately managed portfolio, three-fifths invested in stocks and two-fifths in corporate bonds, a mix that would have yielded a 6 percent annual return, adjusted for inflation, over the last 50 years.
Dr. Feldstein, who served as chief economic adviser to the Reagan Administration, calculates that a 21-year-old who follows this plan to retirement would have an even chance of beating the currently projected Social Security benefit by at least one-third. Conversely, he figures that the chances of winding up with less than 90 percent of what Social Security alone would have yielded are below 1 in 10.
WHILE financial planners say it is not yet possible to compare the plans with any rigor, they tend to prefer that of Mr. Bush, perhaps because it is skewed to mainly benefit the well-to-do who are their main clients.
"The 60-40 plan sounds better," said W. Michael Cooper, a planner in Lexington, Ky. "This business about the tax credit I'm not comfortable with," he added, citing administrative complexity and opportunity for fraud, among other factors.
Steve Garrett, manager of financial planning services at A. G. Edwards, the St. Louis-based brokerage firm, said he doubted whether lower-income families could muster even the modest amount of cash needed to qualify for Mr. Gore's credits.
Many workers taking part in the Gore plan would do so with money otherwise destined for 401(k) plans, which would throw the balance of lower-paid and higher-paid workers in such plans out of kilter and severely limit employers' ability to offer them, according to Dan Halpin, a benefits specialist with Grant Thornton.
Paul A. Levis of Summit Financial Consultants in Yonkers said that even the Bush-Feldstein plan, with its 40 percent bond requirement, would be too timidly invested for his taste. Referring to his daughter, Ashlie, who recently graduated from college, he asked, "Why not give her the ability to put 100 percent" in stock mutual funds?
Then there was Mary B. Hevener, a payroll tax expert for Weil, Gotshal & Manges, who said she was "hard-pressed to say which one is worse," a generous-to-the-poor Gore plan that seems to invite wholesale cheating or a Bush plan that she said risks aggravating, rather than reducing, the threat posed to the Social Security System by the aging of the baby boom generation.
"The richer and older you are, the more you're going to go toward Bush," Ms. Hevener said, but "the crooks are going to like Gore better."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Sizing Up the Plans"
The two major presidential candidates have taken sharply different approaches to enhancing retirement savings with investments in the financial markets. Because very few specifics of the George W. Bush's plan have been announced, details of a version promoted by a close Bush adviser, the economist Martin Feldstein, are used in this comparison.
 
GORE PLAN
 
Basic concept: Government-subsidized investment accounts akin to 401(k)'s, separate from Social Security.
 
Where money would come from: Individual savings, augmented with matching income-tax credits.
 
Ceiling on deposits: $2,000 a year per person, including any matching funds.
 
Impact on government finances: Tax credits would reduce federal tax revenue by $200 billion over 10 years.
 
INVESTMENT COMPONENT
 
Options: Professionally managed, limited to broad-based investments like mutual funds.
 
Risk: A market crash could sharply reduce the accounts' value.
 
Safety net: Existing Social Security benefits would not be affected, no matter what happened to the accounts.
 
BENEFIT FOR:
 
Low-income people: A 3-for-1 match on deposits, assuming that the taxpayer can afford to set aside any savings in the first place.
 
Middle-and high-income people: Deposits are tax deductible, but the matching ratio declines as income rises, phasing out entirely above income of $100,000 a year for a couple.
 
BUSH PLAN (FELDSTEIN VERSION)
 
Basic concept: Individual investment accounts replace some Social Security benefits for participants.
 
Where money would come from: Diversion of some tax money that would otherwise go to Social Security.
 
Ceiling on deposits: Two percent of earnings, up to the maximum taxed for Social Security ($76,200 this year).
 
Impact on government finances: Reduces flow of money to Social Security by an undetermined amount.
 
INVESTMENT COMPONENT
 
Options: Individuals manage investments in approved stock-bond portfolios.
 
Risk: A market crash could reduce retirement income to less than projected Social Security benefits.
 
Safety net: For participants who stick to a balanced portfolio of stocks and bonds, the government might guarantee benefits at least equalling Social Security.
 
BENEFIT FOR:
 
Low-income people: Participation would not require extra savings, but people who have little income would get little or no benefit.
 
Middle-and high-income people: The more money a person makes, the greater the potential benefit, up to the ceiling on deposits.
 
(Photographs by Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (53%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRANT THORNTON INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT SOCIAL SECURITY (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); 

PERSON: AL GORE (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



620 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6932 words

HEADLINE: Growing Up, Growing Apart

SERIES: HOW RACE IS LIVED IN AMERICA: Ninth article of a series.

BYLINE: By TAMAR LEWIN 

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD, N.J.

 BODY:
Back in eighth grade, Kelly Regan, Aqeelah Mateen and Johanna Perez-Fox spent New Year's Eve at Johanna's house, swing-dancing until they fell down laughing, banging pots and pans, watching the midnight fireworks beyond the trees in the park at the center of town.
They had been a tight threesome all through Maplewood Middle School -- Kelly, a tall, coltish Irish-Catholic girl; Aqeelah, a small, earnest African-American Muslim girl, and Johanna, a light-coffee-colored girl who is half Jewish and half Puerto Rican and famous for knowing just about everyone. 
 It had been a great night, they agreed, a whole lot simpler than Johanna's birthday party three nights before. Johanna had invited all their friends, white and black. But the mixing did not go as she had wished.
"The black kids stayed down in the basement and danced, and the white kids went outside on the stoop and talked," Johanna said. "I went out and said, 'Why don't you guys come downstairs?' and they said they didn't want to, that they just wanted to talk out there. It was just split up, like two parties."
The same thing happened at Kelly's back-to-school party a few months earlier.
"It was so stressful," Kelly said. "There I was, the hostess, and I couldn't get everybody together."
"Oh, man, I was, like, trying to help her," Aqeelah said. "I went up and down and up and down. But it was boring outside, so finally I just gave up and went down and danced."
This year the girls started high school, and what with the difficulty of mixing their black and white friends, none took on the challenge of a birthday party.
It happens everywhere, in the confusions of adolescence and the yearning for identity, when the most important thing in life is choosing a group and fitting in: Black children and white children come apart. They move into separate worlds. Friendships ebb and end.
It happens everywhere, but what is striking is that it happens even here. In a nation of increasingly segregated schools, the South Orange-Maplewood district is extraordinarily mixed. Not only is the student body about half black and half white, but in the last census, blacks had an economic edge. This is the kind of place where people -- black and white -- talk a lot about the virtues of diversity and worry about white flight, where hundreds will turn out to discuss the book "Why Are All the Black Kids Sitting Together in the Cafeteria?" People here care about race.
But even here, as if pulled by internal magnets, black and white children begin to separate at sixth grade. These are children who walked to school together, learned to read together, slept over at each other's houses. But despite all the personal history, all the community good will, race divides them as they grow up. As racial consciousness develops -- and the practice of grouping students by perceived ability sends them on diverging academic paths -- race becomes as much a fault line in their world as in the one their parents hoped to move beyond.
As they began high school, Kelly, Johanna and Aqeelah had so far managed to be exceptions. While the world around them had increasingly divided along racial lines, they had stuck together. But where their friendship would go was hard to say. And like a Greek chorus, the voices of other young people warned of tricky currents ahead.
 
Different but Inseparable
On her first day at Columbia High School, Kelly Regan took a seat in homeroom and introduced herself to the black boy at the next desk.
"I was trying to be friendly," she explained. "But he answered in like one word, and looked away. I think he just thought I was a normal white person, and that's all he saw."
She certainly looks like a normal white person, with her pale skin and straight brown hair. But in middle school, she trooped with Aqeelah and Johanna to Martin Luther King Association meetings; there were only a handful of white girls, but Kelly says she never felt out of place. "Some people say I'm ghetto," she said, shrugging. "I don't care."
She had always had a mixed group of friends, and since the middle of eighth grade had been dating a mixed-race classmate, Jared Watts. Even so, she expected that it would be harder to make black friends in the ninth grade. "It's not because of the person I am," she said, "it's just how it is."
Kelly's mother, Kathy, is fascinated by her daughter's multiracial world.
"It's so different from how I grew up," said Ms. Regan, a nurse who met Kelly's father, from whom she is divorced, at a virtually all-white Catholic school. "Sometimes, in front of the high school, I feel a little intimidated when I see all the black kids. But then so many of them know me, from my oldest daughter or now from Kelly, and they say such a nice, 'Hi, Mrs. Regan,' that the feeling goes away."
Johanna Perez-Fox is intensely sociable; her mane of long black curls can often be sighted at the center of a rushed gossip session in the last seconds before class. As she sees it, her mixed background gives her a choice of racial identity and access to everybody. "I like that I can go both ways," said Johanna, whose mother is a special-education teacher and whose father owns a car service.
Johanna has a certain otherness among her black friends. "If they say something about white people, they'll always say, 'Oh, sorry, Johanna,' " she said. "I think it's good. It makes them more aware of their stereotypes."
Still, she was put off when a new black friend asked what race she was.
"People are always asking, 'What are you?' and I don't really like it," she said. "I told him I'm half white and half Puerto Rican, and he said, 'But you act black.' I told him you can't act like a race. I hate that idea. He defended it, though. He said I would have a point if he'd said African-American, because that's a race, but black is a way of acting. I've thought about it, and I think he's right."
Aqeelah Mateen's parents are divorced, and she lives in a mostly black section of Maplewood with her mother, who works for AT&T. She also sees a lot of her father, a skycap at Newark Airport, and often goes with him to the Newark mosque where he is an imam.
Aqeelah is a girl of multiple enthusiasms, and in middle school, her gutsy good cheer kept her close to black and white friends alike. But in high school, the issue of "acting black" was starting to become a persistent irritant.
After school one day, Aqeelah and two other black girls were running down the hall when one of them accidentally knocked a corkboard off the wall. Aqeelah told her to pick it up, but the girl kept going.
"What's the matter with you?" Aqeelah asked. "You knocked it over, you pick it up."
Why do you have to be like a white person? her friend retorted. Just leave it there.
But Aqeelah picked it up.
"There's stuff like that all the time, and it gets on my nerves," she said later. "Like at track, in the locker room, there's people telling a Caucasian girl she has a big butt for a white person, and I'm like, 'Who cares, shut up.' "
 
On an Even Playground
Johanna and Aqeelah met in kindergarten and have been friends from Day 1; Kelly joined the group in fifth grade.
"Nobody cared about race when we were little," Johanna said. "No one thought about it."
On a winter afternoon at South Mountain Elementary School, that still seemed to be the case. There were white and black pockets, but mostly the playground was a picture postcard of racial harmony, white girls and black girls playing clapping games, black boys and white boys shooting space aliens. And when they were asked about race and friendships, there was no self-consciousness. They just said what they had to say.
"Making friends, it just depends on what you like to do, and who likes to do those things," said Carolyn Goldstein, a white third grader.
"I've known Carolyn G. since kindergarten," said a black girl named Carolyn Morton. "She lives on my block. She's in my class. We even have the same name. We have so many things the same!"
As for how they might be different, Carolyn Goldstein groped for an answer: "Well, she has a mom at home and my mom works, and she has a sister, and I don't."
They know race matters in the world, they said, but not here.
"Some people in some places still feel prejudiced, so I guess it's still a kind of an issue, because Martin Luther King was trying to save the world from slaves and bad people and there still are bad people in jail," Carolyn Morton said, finishing up grandly. "I hope by the year 3000, the world will have peace, and the guys who watch the prisoners can finally go home and spend some time with their families."
 
A Shifting Sandbox
All through middle school, Johanna, Kelly and Aqeelah ate lunch together in a corner of the cafeteria where they could see everyone. The main axis of their friendship was changeable: In seventh grade, Johanna and Kelly were the closest. In eighth grade, as Kelly spent more time with Jared, Johanna and Aqeelah were the tightest.
But at the end of middle school, the three were nominated as class "best friends." And while they saw their classmates dividing along racial lines, they tried to ignore it. "In middle school, I didn't want to be aware of the separation," Kelly said. "I didn't see why it had to happen."
Most young people here seem to accept the racial split as inevitable. It's just how it is, they say. Or, it just happens. Or, it's just easier to be with your own kind.
When Sierre Monk, who is black, graduated from South Mountain, she had friends of all races. But since then, she has moved away from the whites and closer to the blacks. Now, in eighth grade, she referred to the shift, sometimes, as "my drift," as in, "After my drift, I began to notice more how the black kids talk differently from the white kids."
Sierre said her drift began after a sixth-grade argument.
"They said, 'You don't even act like you're black,' " she remembered. "I hadn't thought much about it until then, because I was too young. And I guess it was mean what they said, but it helped me. I found I wanted to behave differently after that."
Sierre (pronounced see-AIR-ah) had come from a mostly white private school in Brooklyn. She is the granddaughter of Thelonius Monk, the great jazz pianist, and more than most families, her parents -- Thelonius, a drummer, and Gale, who manages her husband's career and father-in-law's estate -- have an integrated social life.
For Gale Monk, it has come as something of a surprise to hear Sierre talk about her new distance from her white friends.
What about the bat mitzvah this weekend? Ms. Monk asked.
Well, that's just because we used to be friends, Sierre said.
"What do you mean? She's in and out of this house all the time. I can't remember how many times she's slept over or been in my kitchen."
"That was last year, Mom. This year's different. Things have changed."
And Sierre's mother allows that some separation may be healthy.
"I don't have any problem with the black kids hanging together," she said. "I think you need to know your own group to feel proud of yourself."
There is a consensus that the split is mostly, though hardly exclusively, a matter of blacks' pulling away.
Marian Flaxman, a white girl in Sierre's homeroom, puts it this way: "You know, you come to a new school and you're all little and scared, and everybody's looking for a way to fit in, for people to like them. At that point, I think we were just white kids, blah, and they were just black kids, blah, and we were all just kids. And then a few black kids began thinking, 'Hey, we're black kids.' I think the black kids feel like they're black and the white kids feel like they're white because the black kids feel like they're black."
And Sierre does not really disagree: "Everybody gets along, but I think the white kids are more friendly toward black or interracial kids, and the black kids aren't as interested back, just because of stupid stereotypical stuff like music and style."
What they cannot quite articulate, though, is how much the divide owes to their growing awareness of the larger society, to negative messages about race and about things like violence and academic success. They may not connect the dots, but that sensitivity makes them intensely alert to slights from friends of another race, likely to pull away at even a hint of rejection.
Sometimes it is simply a misread cue, as when a black girl, sitting with other black girls, holds up a hand to greet a white friend, and the white girl thinks her greeting means, "I see you, but don't join us." Sometimes it is an obvious, if oblivious, offense: A black boy drops a white friend after discovering that the friend has told another white boy that the black family's food is weird.
And occasionally, the breach is startlingly painful: A white seventh grader considers changing schools after her best friend tells her she can no longer afford white friends. Months later, the white girl talked uncomfortably about how unreachable her former friend seemed.
"I'm not going to go sit with her at the 'homey' table," she said, then flushed in intense embarrassment: "I'm not sure I'm supposed to say 'homey.' I'm not sure that's what they call themselves; maybe it sounds racist."
And indeed, the black girl believed that some of the things her former friend had said did fall between insensitive and racist.
For their part, both mothers, in identical tones, expressed anger and hurt about how badly their daughters had been treated. Each, again in identical tones, said her daughter had been blameless. But the mothers had never been friends, and like their daughters, never talked about what happened, never heard the other side.
Marian Flaxman went to a mostly black preschool, and several black friends from those days remain classmates. But, she said, it has been years since she visited a black friend's home.
"Sometimes I feel like I'm the only one who remembers that we used to be friends," she said. "Now we don't say hello in the halls, and the most we'd say in class is something like, 'Can I borrow your eraser?' "
Asked if she knew of any close and lasting cross-race friendships, she was stumped, paging through her yearbook and offering up a few tight friendships between white and mixed-race classmates.
Diane Hughes, a New York University psychology professor who lives in South Orange, has studied the changing friendships of children here. In the first year of middle school, she found, black children were only half as likely as they had been two years before to name a white child as a best friend. Whites had fewer black friends to start with, but their friendships changed less. But blacks and whites, on reaching middle school, were only half as likely as third graders to say they had invited a friend of a different race home recently.
By the end of middle school, the separation is profound.
At 10 p.m. on a Friday in October, 153 revved-up 13-year-olds squealed and hugged their way into the South Orange Middle School cafeteria for the Eighth Grade Sleep over. At 11 they were grouped by birthday month, each group to write what they loved about school.
They loved Skittles at lunch . . . the Eighth Grade Sleepover . . . Ms. Wright, the health teacher/basketball coach/Martin Luther King Club adviser. And at the March table, a white boy wrote "interracial friendships."
But the moment the organized activities ended, the black and white eighth graders separated. And at 2 a.m., when the girls' sleeping bags covered the library floor and the boys' the gym, they formed a map of racial boundaries. The borders were peaceful, but there was little commerce across territorial lines. After lights out, some black girls stood and started a clapping chant.
"I can't," one girl called.
"Why not?" the group called back.
"I can't."
"Why not?"
"My back's hurting and my bra's too tight."
It grew louder as other black girls threaded their way through the darkness to join in.
"I can't."
"Why not?"
"I shake my booty from left to right."
Marian, in her green parrot slippers, was in a group of white girls up front, enjoying, listening, but quiet.
"It's cool, when they start stuff like that, or in the lunchroom when they start rumbling on the table and we all pick it up," she said. "It's just louder. One time in class this year, someone was acting up, and when the teacher said sit down, the boy said, 'It's because I'm black, isn't it?' I thought, no, it's not because you're black; that's stupid. It's because you're being really noisy and obnoxious. And it made me feel really white. And then I began thinking, well, maybe it is because he's black, because being noisy may be part of that culture, and then I didn't know what to think."
 
Jostling for Position
Aqeelah, Kelly and Johanna refuse to characterize behavior as black or white; they just hate it, they insist, when anyone categorizes them in racial terms.
"I think what makes Kelly and Johanna and me different is that we're what people don't expect," Aqeelah said. "I'm the only Muslim most people know, and one of two African-Americans on my softball team. There's Kelly, a white girl playing basketball, and Johanna, when people ask if she's white or Puerto Rican, saying, 'Both.' "
Most students are acutely aware of the signposts of Columbia High's coexisting cultures. The popular wisdom has it that the black kids dominate football and basketball, the white kids soccer, softball and lacrosse. Black kids throw big dancing parties in rented spaces; white parties are more often in people's homes, with a lot of drinking. Everyone wears jeans, but the white kids are more preppy, the black kids more hip-hop. Black kids listen to Hot 97, a hip-hop station, or WBLS, which plays rhythm and blues; white kids favor rock stations like Z100 or K-Rock.
"I know a lot of Caucasians listen to Hot 97, too," Aqeelah said, "but even if I had a list of 200 Caucasians who listen to it, everyone still thinks it's an African-American thing."
Even though the two cultures are in constant, casual contact -- and a few students cross back and forth easily -- in the end, they are quite separate.
Jason Coleman, a black graduate who just finished his freshman year at Howard University, remembers how the cultures diverged, separating him from the white boy with whom he once walked to school.
"The summer before high school, we just went different ways," he said. "We listened to different music, we played different sports, we got interested in different girls. And we didn't have much to say to each other anymore. That's the time you begin to develop your own style, and mine was a different style than his."
Jason's style included heavy gold chains, a diamond ear stud, baggy pants and hair in short twists. Asked to define that style, he hesitated, then said, "I guess what bothers me least is if you say that I follow hip-hop fashion."
At the start of high school, much of Jason's energy went toward straddling the divide between hip-hop kid and honors student. He was in frequent physical fights, though never with white students; that doesn't seem to happen. Although blacks are now a slight majority at the school, he, like many of the black students, felt an underlying jostling about who really owns the school. And he felt dismissed, intellectually and socially, by some teachers and classmates.
"African-Americans may be the majority, but I don't think they feel like the majority because they don't feel they get treated fairly," he said. "You see who gets suspended, and it's the African-American kids. I had one friend suspended for eating a bagel in homeroom because his teacher said he had an attitude. That just wouldn't happen to a Caucasian boy. It doesn't have to be a big thing to make you feel like it's not really your school. We can all hold hands and talk about how united we are, but if the next day you run into a girl from your classes at the mall with her mother and she doesn't say hello, what's that?"
To avoid these issues, Jason chose a predominantly black college, Howard, and he seemed relaxed there this year. The gold chains and diamond were gone, and he was studying hard to go to medical school, as his father and brother had.
White students at Columbia High have their own issues. Many feel intimidated by the awareness that they are becoming a minority at the school, that they tend not to share academic classes, or culturally much else, with a lot of the black students. It is striking that while there are usually a few black or multiracial children in the school's white groups, whites rarely enter the black groups. Many white students are reluctant to be quoted about the racial climate, lest they seem racist. But some recent graduates are more forthcoming.
"A lot of the black kids, it was like they had a really big chip on their shoulder, and they were mad at the world and mad at whites for running the world," said Jenn Caviness, a white graduate who attends Columbia University. "One time, in 10th grade, in the hall, this black kid shoved me and said, 'Get out of the way, white crack bitch.' I moved, because he was big, but I was thinking how if I said something racial back, I would have been attacked. It was very polarized sometimes."
She and others, however, say the cultural jockeying has an upside -- a freedom from the rigid social hierarchy that plagues many affluent suburban high schools.
"If you're different here, it doesn't matter, because there's so many kinds of differences already," Johanna explained when asked to identify the cool kids, the in crowd. "There's no one best way to be."
In Johanna's commercial art class one day, there was a table of black boys, a table of white girls and a mixed table, where two black girls were humming as they worked. A white girl asked what the song was.
They told her, and she said, "It's really wack."
Yeah, one answered, "You don't know music like we know music."
"Yeah, and you don't know music like I know music."
"I know," the black girl said, smiling. "It's like two completely different tastes."
 
Acting Black, Acting White
Aqeelah, Kelly and Johanna did not have many classes together this year, but they had grown up in a shared academic world. While they are not superstars, they do their work and are mostly in honors classes. But if that common ground has so far helped keep them together, the system of academic tracking more often helps pull black and white children apart.
Whenever people talk about race and school, the elephant in the room -- rarely mentioned, impossible to ignore -- is the racial imbalance that appears when so-called ability grouping begins. Almost all American school districts begin tracking sometime before high school. And when they do, white students are far more likely than blacks to be placed in higher-level classes, based on test scores and teacher recommendations.
Nationwide, by any measure of academic performance, be it grades, tests or graduation rates, whites on average do better than blacks. To some extent, it is a matter of differences in parents' income and education. But the gap remains even when such things are factored out, even in places like this. Experts have no simple explanation, citing a tangle of parents' attitudes, low expectations of mostly white teaching staffs and some white classmates, and negative pressure from black students who believe that doing well isn't cool, that smart is white and street is black.
It can be a vicious circle -- and a powerful influence on friendships.
Inevitably, as students notice that honors classes are mostly white and lower-level ones mostly black, they develop a corrosive sense that behaving like honors students is "acting white," while "acting black" demands they emulate lower-level students. Little wonder that sixth grade, when ability grouping starts here, is also when many interracial friendships begin to come apart.
"It sometimes bothers me to see how many of my African-American friends aren't in the higher-level classes, and how they try to be cool around their friends by acting up and trying to be silly and getting in fights," said Sierre, who this year moved up to honors in everything but math. "A lot of them just aren't trying. They're my friends, but I look at them and think, 'Why can't you just be cool and do your work?' "
The district does not release racial breakdowns of its classes. But at Columbia High, which is 45 percent white, ninth-grade honors classes usually seem to be about two-thirds white, middle-level classes more than two-thirds black, and the lowest level -- "basic skills" -- almost entirely black. The imbalance is at least as great at Marian and Sierre's middle school.
Honors is where students mix most.
"You really see the difference when you're not in honors," said Kelly, who was in middle-level English this year. "In middle level, there aren't so many white kids, and whenever you break into groups, people stick with their own race."
The contrasts are stark. In Aqeelah's mostly white honors history class, the students argued passionately about the nature of man as they compared Hobbes, Locke, Voltaire and Rousseau. But the next period, when the all-black basic-skills class arrived, the students headed to the library to learn how to look up facts for a report on a foreign country.
"I'm still taken aback, shocked, each time I walk into a class and see the complexion," said LuElla Peniston, a black guidance counselor at the school. "It should be more balanced."
The issue has become especially delicate as the district has become progressively blacker, as more students have moved in from poorer neighboring towns with troubled schools, and as the ranking on state tests has slipped. Five years ago, a quarter of the district's children were black; now, with blacks a slight majority, many people worry that the district could tip too far. (Of course, black and white parents tend to have different ideas about how far is too far.)
The schools are still impressive. Columbia High always sends dozens of graduates, black and white, to top colleges. It produced Carla Peterman, a black Rhodes scholar, and Lauryn Hill, the hip-hop star, who still lives in town. This year Columbia had more National Achievement Scholarship semifinalists -- an honor for top-scoring black seniors in the National Merit Scholarship Program -- than any school in the state. And last year it had an 88 percent passing rate on the state high school proficiency test, three points above average.
Still, in a society that often associates racial minorities with stereotypes of poverty, the district has an image problem. Many parents -- whites, but also some blacks -- talk nervously about "those kids with the boomboxes out in front of school," and wonder if they should start checking out private schools or another district.
The district's administrators have been grappling with questions of racial balance and ability grouping for years. In middle school, for example, students can temporarily move up a level, to try more challenging work. But the program is used mostly by white families -- to push a child or remove him or her from a mostly black classroom -- so it has only increased the skew.
Many white parents, Ms. Peniston says, are adamant about not letting their children be anywhere below honors. "They either push very hard to get their children into the level where they want them, or they leave," she said.
It is not an issue only for whites. Many black parents worry that the schools somehow associate darker-skinned children with lower-level classes.
When Kelly's boyfriend, Jared Watts, transferred from South Orange Middle School to Maplewood Middle, he was placed in lower-level classes, something his parents discovered only on parents' night.
"There were all these African-American families, asking all these basic questions," said Jared's mother, Debby Watts. "I looked around and realized they'd put him in the wrong group. I was so upset I made my husband do the calling the next day. They moved him up right away. But you can't help but wonder if it would have happened if he'd been white."
Sierre Monk's parents are watching her grades, and thinking that unless she is put in honors classes in high school next year, they will move her to private school.
Sierre says she is comfortable with her white honors classmates, even if her best friends now are black.
"I feel friendly to a lot of the white kids, and still e-mail some of them," she said. As she sees it, she can be a good student without compromising her African-American credentials. Not everyone, she observes, has been so culturally dextrous.
"A lot of people think of the black kids in the top classes, the ones who don't hang out with a lot of African-Americans, as the 'white' black kids," she said. "I'd never say it to them, but in my head I call them the white black kids, too."
Still, she said, she was happiest in her middle-level math class, where every student but one was black.
"It's my favorite, because I can do well there without struggling," she said. "And I feel closest to that class, because I have so many friends there. Once I was waiting outside, alone, when I heard a group of white kids talking about, 'Oh, those kids in Level 3, they must be stupid.' I don't want to associate with people who think like that."
 
Fissures, Chasms, Islands
It was hard for Aqeelah, Kelly and Johanna to get together this year. They had different lunch periods, different study halls. Only Johanna and Kelly had any classes together. Johanna was on the varsity swim team, Kelly was on the ninth-grade basketball team and Aqeelah ran indoor track. The three could go weeks without getting together.
But they were still close. In the fall, when Johanna had big news to share about a boy she liked, she was on two phone lines simultaneously, telling Kelly and Aqeelah the latest.
When they finally met for dinner at Arturo's Pizza in November, their pleasure in being together was visible.
Aqeelah was a little late, so Kelly chose an orange soda for her. When she arrived, they were their usual frisky selves, waving to everyone who walked by and talking about the old friends they didn't see anymore and the new people they felt friendly with but would not yet ask to the movies.
They were still in giggle mode when Aqeelah said, "I get made fun of by everybody," and Johanna broke in, "Why, because you're short?" and they collapsed into laughter.
But a second later, Aqeelah was not laughing. She had her head down and her eyes covered, and when she looked up, a tear was leaking down her cheek.
"No, it's really confusing this year," she said. "I'm too white to be black, and I'm too black to be white. If I'm talking to a white boy, a black kid walks by and says, 'Oh, there's Aqeelah, she likes white boys.' And in class, these Caucasian boys I've been friends with for years say hi, and then the next thing they say is, 'Yo, Aqeelah, what up?' as if I won't understand them unless they use that kind of slang. Or they'll tell me they really like 'Back That Thing Up' by Juvenile. I don't care if they like a rapper, but it seems like they think that's the only connection they have with me.
"Last year this stuff didn't bother me, but now it does bother me, because some of the African-American kids, joking around, say I'm an Oreo."
Johanna and Kelly were surprised by her pain; they had not heard this before. But they did sense her increasing distance from them.
"It's like she got lost or something," Kelly said. "I never see her."
Aqeelah had always been the strongest student of the three, the only one in a special math class, one rung above honors. But by winter, she was getting disappointing grades, especially in history, and beginning to worry about being moved down a level. Math was not going so well either, and so she dropped track to focus on homework. She was hoping to make the softball team, and disappointed that neither of her friends was trying out. "I'll never see you," she complained.
All three, of course, have always had other friends, and they still did.
Much of Kelly's social life was with her racially mixed lunch group. She felt herself moving further from some of her white friends, the ones who hang out only with whites. "It seems like they have their whole clique," she said, and she was not terribly interested in them. Against the grain, she was still working to make friends with blacks, particularly with a basketball teammate.
Johanna found herself hanging out more with blacks, much as her older sister had -- though not her brother, a college freshman whose high school friends were mostly white.
"In middle school, there were black and white tables in the cafeteria and everything, but people talked together in the hallways," Johanna said. "Now there's so many people, you don't even say hi to everybody, and sometimes it seems like the black and white people live in such different worlds that they wouldn't know how to have fun together anymore."
The three girls celebrated separately this New Year's Eve -- Kelly with Jared, Johanna at a party with her family, Aqeelah at her father's mosque for Ramadan.
Kelly still tried to bring them together. One Friday night, she called Johanna and Aqeelah on the spur of the moment, and they came over in their pajamas. And at Kelly's last basketball game, in late February, Johanna and Aqeelah sat and joked with Jared, Kelly's mother, her grandmother and little brother.
The next day Kelly and Jared broke up. Kelly said she was sad and working hard to keep up her friendship with Jared, but that's about all she was saying.
And as spring arrived, Kelly, Johanna and Aqeelah acknowledged that, at least for now, their threesome had pretty much become a twosome.
Johanna and Kelly were still very tight, and did something together almost every weekend. But these days Aqeelah talked most to a black girl, a longtime family friend. It was partly logistics: Aqeelah would run into her daily at sixth period and after school, at her locker.
"I don't know why I don't call Johanna or Kelly," she said. "They'll always have the place in my heart, but not so much physically in my life these days. It seems like I have no real friends this year. You know how you can have a lot of friends, but you have no one? Everyone seems to be settled in their cliques and I'm just searching. And the more I get to know some people, the more I want to withdraw. I'm spending a lot more time with my family this year."
It's not that Aqeelah was falling apart. She was still her solid self, with all her enthusiasms -- for "Dawson's Creek," movies, and the Friday noon service at the mosque. But increasingly, the gibes about being too white were getting to her. One day, walking to class with a black boy who is an old friend, she blew up when he told her she had "white people's hair."
"I just began screaming, 'What's wrong with these people in this school?' and everyone stared at me like I was crazy," she said. "Everyone, every single person, gets on my nerves."
 
Lessons and Legacies
The story of Aqeelah, Kelly and Johanna is still unfolding. But those who have gone before know something about where they may be headed.
Aqeelah's struggle is deeply familiar to Malika Oglesby, who arrived from a mostly white school in Virginia in fifth grade and quickly found white friends. Several black boys began to follow her around, taunting her. Lowering her eyes, she recited the chant that plagued her middle-school years: "Cotton candy, sweet as gold, Malika is an Oreo."
"I don't think I knew what it meant the first time, but I figured it out pretty fast," she said.
Jenn Caviness, one of her white friends from that time, clearly remembers Malika's pain.
"Malika was in tears every other day, they just tormented her," she said. "We all felt very protective, but we didn't know how to stop it."
Malika felt powerless, too.
"I didn't tell my parents about it, I didn't tell my sister, but it was a hard time," she said. "If you'd asked me about it at the time, I would have said that there was absolutely no issue at all about my having chosen all those white friends. But that's not true. By the end of seventh grade, I was starting to be uncomfortable. Everybody was having little crushes on everybody among my friends, but of course nobody was having a crush on me. I began to feel like I was falling behind, I was just the standby."
The summer before high school, she eased into a black social group.
"I found a black boyfriend, and I kind of lost contact with everyone else," said Malika, who now attends Howard.
And yet, when Malika finished talking about her Oreo problem, when Jason recalled his fighting days, when others finished describing difficult racial experiences, a strange thing happened. They looked up, unprompted, and said how much they loved the racial mix here and the window it opened onto a different culture.
"Columbia High School was so important and useful to me," said Jenn, immediately after recounting how she had been pushed in the hall by a black boy. "It shaped a lot of parts of my personality."
She and the others remembered a newfound ease as high school was ending, when the racial divide began to fade.
"Senior year was wonderful, when the black kids and the white kids got to be friends again, and the graduation parties where everyone mixed," said Malika. "It was so much better."
Many parents say that is a common pattern.
"It is an ebb and flow," said Carol Barry-Austin, the biracial mother of three African-American children. "Middle-school kids need time to separate and feel comfortable in their racial identity, and then they can come back together. I remember when I wanted to give my oldest daughter a sweet-16 party, she said no, because she couldn't mix her black and white friends. But by the time she got to a graduation party, she could."
This year, among the seniors, there was a striking friendship between Jordan BarAm, the white student council president, and Ari Onugha, the black homecoming king.
They met in ninth grade when Jordan was running for class president and knew he needed the black vote. Ari, he had heard, was the coolest kid in school, and he went to him in such a low-key and humorous way that Ari was happy to help out. From that unlikely start, a genuine friendship began when both were in Advanced Placement physics the next year.
This year they had several Advanced Placement classes together, and they talked on the phone most nights, Jordan said, "about everything" -- homework, girls, college. Ari was admitted to the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School and Jordan to Harvard.
"No one looking at me would ever think I'm in Advanced Placement," said Ari, who wears baggy Gibaud pants, a pyramid ring and a big metal watch. "Most of the black kids in the honors classes identify with white culture. I'm more comfortable in black culture, with kids who dress like me and talk like me and listen to the same music I do."
Ari and Jordan have a real friendship, but one with limits. On weekends, Ari mostly hangs out with black friends from lower-level classes, Jordan with a mostly white group of top students. When Ari and his friends performed a wildly successful hip-hop dance routine at the Martin Luther King Association fashion show, Jordan, like most white students, did not go. And when Jordan and his friends put together a fund-raising dance for a classmate with multiple sclerosis, Ari did not show up.
"We've tried to get him to white parties, everyone wants him there, but he either doesn't come or doesn't stay long," Jordan said.
Jordan thinks a lot about race and has been active in school groups to promote better racial understanding -- something he has tried unsuccessfully to draw Ari into.
And while Ari often visits Jordan's home, Jordan has only rarely, and briefly, been to Ari's.
Ari laughed. "Hey, dude, you could come."
 
About the Series
 
Two generations after the end of legal discrimination, the wider public discussion of race relations seems muted. Race relations are being defined less by political action than by daily experience, in schools, in sports arenas, in pop culture and at worship, and especially in the workplace. These encounters -- race relations in the most literal, everyday sense -- make up this series of reports, the outcome of a yearlong examination by Times reporters.
 
How Race Is Lived in America
 
JUNE 4 -- Integration saved a church. Then the hard work began.
 
JUNE 5 -- Two best friends from Cuba are divided by race in America.
 
JUNE 7 -- In a "colorblind" Army, two sergeants see race standing in the way of their ambitions.
 
JUNE 11 -- A white writer, a black director and tension on the set of a television series.
 
JUNE 14 -- A successful black-white Internet team puts its white face forward.
 
JUNE 16 -- At a slaughterhouse, who kills, who cuts and who bosses can depend on race.
 
JUNE 20 -- An Asian-American politician told his story and won. For blacks, it is a riskier strategy.
 
JUNE 22 -- Two women struggle to control the legacy of a Louisiana plantation.
 
TODAY -- Three New Jersey high school girls resist the pressure to split into separate racial groups.
 
THURSDAY -- Notes of discord at a newspaper that had championed racial harmony.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Aqeelah Mateen, Kelly Regan and Johanna Perez-Fox, left to right, have been friends for years. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1); By the time they enter high school, students tend to split into racial groups, sitting apart in the Columbia High cafeteria, for example. A close friendship that defies the rule is that of Ari Onugha, right, and Jordan BarAm.; MALIKA OGLESBY; JASON COLEMAN (Photographs by SUZANNE DeCHILLO/The New York Times)(pg. 19); Third graders like Melissa Charles and Tess Skoller mix easily at South Mountain Elementary School; Aqeelah Mateen, Kelly Regan and Johanna Perez-Fox, frolicking in Kelly's room, mix more easily than their peers.; MARIAN FLAXMAN; SIERRE MONK (pg. 18)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MAPLEWOOD (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS RACE & RACISM (89%); CHILDREN (89%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); MUSLIM AMERICANS (71%); CENSUS (50%); 

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR KELLY REGAN (95%); JOHANNA PEREZ-FOX (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



621 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1720 words

HEADLINE: Heartbreakers, Dream Makers;
Despite Digital Upstarts, Big Labels Still Rule the Music Industry

BYLINE: By ALEX BERENSON with MATT RICHTEL

 BODY:
CONVENTIONAL wisdom says the music industry is under siege, threatened by Napster and MP3 and digital piracy.
In the none-too-distant future, techno-visionaries declare, musicians will not need record labels. Instead, they will market and sell recordings directly to fans over the Internet. Even the labels that manage to hang on to their artists will find their sales eviscerated by piracy. With free music available on the Web via Napster and other song-trading services, only fools will pay for songs. 
 That's the conventional wisdom. Why, then, did the French conglomerate Vivendi agree last week to pay $34 billion in stock for Seagram, whose Universal Music division is the world leader? And why did Jean-Marie Messier, Vivendi's chairman, describe music as the most important element of the deal? Or, as one music industry executive put it in language too colorful to quote directly: If things are so bad, how come we're selling so many records?
Good questions all. In their rush to mock the Vivendi-Universal deal -- and to write off Bertelsmann, Sony, Time Warner and EMI, which with Universal dominate the $40 billion music industry worldwide -- fans of Napster, MP3 and other upstart technologies are ignoring the fact that the music industry is booming, perhaps a more powerful force in pop culture than ever before.
In the United States, sales of albums, as the industry anachronistically calls full-length CD's and cassettes, are up about 8 percent, to 312 million through mid-June, according to Soundscan, which tracks such things. Albums released this year by Eminem, Britney Spears and 'N Sync had the three fastest-selling debuts in the history of the music industry. Eminem records for Interscope, which is owned by Universal, while Britney Spears and 'N Sync are on Jive Records, which is partially owned and distributed by BMG.
Shipments of CD's are almost certain to top one billion this year for the first time, up from 940 million last year, according to the Recording Industry Association of America, a trade group. Over all, the industry is on track to ship more than $15 billion in CD's, DVD's, and even vinyl albums this year -- double the level of a decade ago.
That strength comes in the face of the explosive growth of Napster, a free service that allows anyone connected to the Internet to trade songs with anyone else registered with the service. In the 18 months since it was created by Shawn Fanning, then 19 and a Northeastern University student looking for a way to share music files, Napster has registered more than 13 million users -- without any paid advertising.
Along the way, it has become a cultural phenomenon, the subject of magazine cover articles and ominous news reports. "Like techno-termites, computer users who swap free recordings are gnawing at the foundations of the music industry," The Wall Street Journal intoned on Tuesday, laying the blame for "a piracy plague" squarely on Napster.
The recording industry is indeed concerned about Napster. Its new mechanism for distributing songs -- both convenient and free -- has proved its attractiveness, especially for the young people who are the most avid music consumers.
In a lawsuit scheduled to be heard next month, the industry contends that the service contributes to copyright infringement. Napster disputes the accusation that its technology hurts record companies, arguing that it gives consumers a way to sample songs before buying albums.
Recent rulings in other cases have gone the industry's way, and the music companies say they can create an equally convenient digital system that protects their property rights, though so far they have not.
"Napster's growth indicates demand for music digitally, not demand for Napster," said Dave Goldberg, chairman of Launch Media, a company that has partnered with traditional labels to offer songs and music videos over the Internet.
The focus on Napster and its Internet ilk ignores the established music industry's real strengths -- and the reasons that companies like Vivendi and America Online are buying into the business, Mr. Goldberg and others say.
The companies are not paying billions for the opportunity to truck CD's to retailers. Rather, like movie studios -- to which most of the big record companies are attached -- they are first and foremost in the promotion and marketing business.
In the United States alone, there are hundreds of thousands of bands with enough original material for full-length CD's. MP3.com, which operates an Internet site where bands can post music free, had 74,000 artists and 469,000 songs available for download at the end of May.
Yet at any given moment, only a few dozen musicians occupy the public's attention, generating the kind of radio play, record sales and adulation that generations of garage bands have dreamed about. The others are just background noise.
And it is the background noise -- or at least the kind of music little heard outside college quads -- in which the upstarts specialize. From December to March, the number of bands on the MP3.com site rose to 63,000 from 45,000. But the number of CD's sold on the site during that time was stuck, at about 26,000 a month. (MP3.com stopped reporting its CD sales after March.) Put another way, consumers bought more copies of the new Britney Spears album on the day it was released than they have ever bought at MP3.com.
"The record industry so far has a lock on almost all the marketable talent out there," said Ron Rodrigues, editor in chief of Radio & Records, a Los Angeles newspaper that covers the music industry. "There hasn't been an entrepreneur as of yet who's been able to skirt the recording industry as we know it and make money outside the system. The whole front end of the process by which the record gets marketed and played hasn't changed yet."
NOR is it likely to anytime soon. The keys, now more than ever, are money and size.
After a decade of consolidation, the radio industry has two giant gatekeepers, Clear Channel Communications and Viacom's Infinity Broadcasting, which each control hundreds of stations across the country. Viacom also owns MTV -- if anything even more important than radio to the success of a new album. Both companies carefully build their stations' playlists -- making it difficult for an unknown band or song to become a hit in one market and spread to others.
Hence the heightened power of the record labels, which themselves have consolidated into a few giant corporate hydras. The labels' clout is crucial to getting new bands broadcast exposure, the fuel that drives sales. Labels trade promotional appearances by successful, established bands for air time for new bands. They pay to sponsor concerts with local radio stations, a practice that some critics say skirts close to payola, the illegal act of paying to have a song played. They advertise everywhere from Rolling Stone magazine to posters on construction sites.
Without all that, it is nearly impossible for a band to break through the clutter, said Michael Nathanson, who follows the music industry for Sanford C. Bernstein, the securities firm. Mr. Nathanson said that even Warner Music and EMI had struggled recently to get some new artists' songs on the air because BMG and Universal have been so dominant for the last year -- though he does not expect that situation to last.
In addition to promotion and marketing, labels put up the cash advances that artists use to record their albums, and they offer creative advice, for better or worse. Sometimes the labels go a step further, actually creating bands with a sound and look they think will resonate.
Critics who say Napster and MP3.com will destroy the labels "have misunderstood the business of music," said Paul Vidich, executive vice president of Warner Music.
A handful of performers, like Courtney Love, have protested the labels' dominance, but record executives say the current system works for most musicians, who lack the time or money to promote and market an album.
"I don't think artists are in the position of being risk-takers like that," Mr. Vidich said. "They would rather get a big advance."
Already, upstarts like MP3.com, which boldly declared last year that it would take power from established labels by offering bands higher royalty payments and direct access to consumers, seem to be recognizing that their role may simply be to push the industry to embrace new means of distribution and promotion.
"We have no desire to put the labels out of business," said Hank Barry, Napster chief executive. "We believe that this advance in technology will increase interest in music."
THE labels, after years of dragging their heels on digital distribution, seem finally to agree. Before the year is out, Universal plans to sell digital music over the Internet; eventually, Mr. Messier hopes to link the service to his budding cell-phone empire. Similarly, AOL is likely to explore way to electronically distribute music -- including Warner's -- to its customers.
"Somewhere along the line, we thought the album was created by God and forgot it is not the only way that music is packaged and sold," said Jay A. Samit, EMI Music's senior vice president.
Still, exactly how music will be sold in the future remains an open question. Mr. Goldberg favors subscription services that will allow users to hear as much music as they want, commercial free, for a fee of $15 or so a month. If the record industry could convince the 100 million Americans considered to be active music consumers to sign up for a subscription service, it would have annual revenue of $18 billion, slightly more than current annual record sales, he said. He also expects advertising-supported Internet radio services to become more popular.
On the other hand, Mr. Vidich said he thinks subscription services are unlikely to catch on as long as free, ad-supported radio is available. He says digital downloads of individual albums will more likely be popular -- as will traditional CD's.
"People do like CD's" he said. "They continue to buy about 900 million CD's every year in this country. I don't think people are going to change their behavior dramatically. They're going to continue to do what they've done, and they're going to do new things."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fans at a Britney Spears concert in 1999 in Bethel, N.Y. (Alan E. Solomon for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Record Sales..."
Album sales in the United States are at a record pace.
 
Graph tracks album sales in the United States since 1994.
(Sources: Soundscan; Billboard)
 
Chart: "...and Chart-Topping Hits"
Current hits dominate the list of albums with the highest first-week sales since 1991.
 
Artist/album
 
'N Sync No Strings Attached
Debut: 2000
Sales (millions): 2.4
 
Eminem Marshall Mathers LP
Debut: 2000
Sales (millions): 1.8
 
Britney Spears Oops! I Did It Again
Debut: 2000
Sales (millions): 1.3
 
Backstreet Boys Millennium
Debut: 1999
Sales (millions): 1.1
 
Garth Brooks Double Live
Debut: 1998
Sales (millions): 1.1
 
(Sources: Soundscan; Billboard)(pg. 1)
 
"Music Generates Huge Sales for Industry Leaders..."
Revenue for each company's music division and the percentage of total revenue for the latest fiscal year available
 
Graphs track total revenue for the music division of Bertelsmann, EMI Group*, Sony, Time Warner and Universal.
 
...And Solid Profits for Most...
Operating profit for each company's music division and the percentage of total operating income for the latest fiscal year
 
...While Upstarts, So Far, Have Barely Left a Mark
 
Graphs tracks Revenue, Operating income and Stock prices for Launch Media and MP3.com.
 
(Source: Company reports)(pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VIV (PAR) (84%); VIV (BIT) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NAPSTER INC (92%); VIVENDI (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC, OPERA AND MUSICAL RECORDINGS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET MUSIC INDUSTRY (96%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (94%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); ONLINE PIRACY (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); MUSIC (90%); RECORD INDUSTRY (89%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); RECORD RELEASES (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BRITNEY SPEARS (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



622 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Investing;
For BatteredInsurers, A Timely Turnabout

BYLINE: By JOSEPH B. TREASTER

 BODY:
WHILE technology stocks have been careening wildly, some ugly ducklings in the insurance industry appear to be transforming themselves into market darlings.
The companies that sell insurance on cars, houses and businesses, a decidedly unglamorous business, had been sputtering under the strain of poor earnings, in large part a result of natural disasters like Hurricane Floyd, and of rising interest rates since the middle of last year. And their stocks took a real beating in the first two and a half months of 2000 as technology stocks were rising sharply. But when technology shares began selling off in mid-March, the insurers rebounded. 
 There is little doubt that the insurance stocks had been oversold by many measures. Indeed, many still look relatively cheap when compared with their peaks of a year or so ago. In addition, signs of a slowing economy suggest that interest rates may begin to level off, good news for the group because higher rates can translate into smaller profits. Even more important, insurers are beginning to nudge up prices, which also bodes well for profits.
"The property-casualty insurers had been among the most disfavored stocks on Wall Street," said Robert P. Hartwig, the chief economist at the Insurance Information Institute, an industry group in New York, adding that some had dropped below book value. "But since the dot-com shipwreck, people have been looking to put their money in companies that are actually making a profit. And the insurance stocks have been among the greatest values on Wall Street."
As of Friday, the technology-heavy Nasdaq index was down 5.5 percent for the year, and the Standard & Poor's property-casualty stock index was basically flat. Since March 10, the insurance index has gained 38.3 percent while the Nasdaq, despite its rally since May 23, is off 23.8 percent.
In general, rising interest rates dampen insurance stock prices along with those of other financial services companies. So the Federal Reserve's short-term interest rate increases, which began in the middle of last year, have naturally been a drag on the group's performance. But with insurance stocks well above their March lows, investors seem to be saying that the economy is beginning to slow down -- and that the Fed may be nearly done raising rates.
Financial stocks of many types have been picking up. But Alice Schroeder, an analyst at PaineWebber, says property-casualty stocks stand out because they are less sensitive to economic developments -- many people have to buy insurance whether or not prices are rising -- and "the fundamentals of these companies are actually improving."
Auto insurers are a case in point. Shares of the Progressive Corporation closed on Friday at $77.875, up 58.1 percent from their 2000 lows on March 13, while those of the Hartford Financial Services Group closed at $53.3125, up 81.5 percent from their low on the same day.
Ace, the international insurer based in Bermuda, has risen 83 percent from its March nadir, to $26.875. The St. Paul Companies, a big commercial insurance group, is up 60.9 percent from its low on March 8, to $35, and Allstate, a leader in auto and homeowner coverage, is up 34.5 percent, to $23.875.
Despite the run-up, the property-casualty stocks may have room to move higher. At the beginning of last year, for example, Progressive traded at more than twice its current price. And other stocks are well below their 1999 highs too.
"It may not be the first inning of this game," said Doug Cliggott, the United States equities strategist for J. P. Morgan Securities. "But I don't think it's beyond the third inning. It's still a very attractive point to get in."
Some fund managers agree. "I think there's a long ways to go, a lot of upside, plenty of potential in these stock prices," said Jeff Morris, who manages the $1.3 billion Invesco Financial Services fund. Noting that the stocks have moved away from their recent highs, he added that he "wouldn't read too much into it."
Others sounded more cautious. Ms. Schroeder says some prices of a year or two ago were historical highs that may be difficult to overtake anytime soon.
Although many of the stocks may have topped out, she said, there is still money to be made on Ace; XL Ltd., another big Bermuda insurer; two of her favorites, AIG and Berkshire Hathaway; and the two biggest commercial brokers, Marsh & McLennan and Aon.
AFTER declining for nearly a decade, prices for commercial insurance, which offers protection to corporations for most everything from shareholder suits to plant explosions, are starting to show signs of increasing. Some of the biggest auto insurers, including Progressive and Geico, the Berkshire Hathaway unit, have also begun raising their prices after two years of declines across the industry.
"You can make a pretty good case that the insurance cycle is turning in a more positive direction," Mr. Cliggott said.
New markets are opening, too, Mr. Hartwig said, citing China and India and a whole field of coverage devoted to cyberspace problems. A handful of big insurers are entering that field with policies covering loss of data and damage from viruses.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Catastrophic damage from Hurricane Floyd and rising interest rates cut insurers' profits, but casualty companies have regained investors' favor. (NASA)
 
Graph: "The Anti-Technology Stocks?"
For much of this year, shares in property-casualty insurance companies have moved in the opposite direction of the technology stocks that dominate the Nasdaq. Lately, the sectors have converged.
 
Graph tracks the Nasdaq, S. & P. property-casualty insurance index and S. & P. 500 since Jan.
(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PGR (NYSE) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (60%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROGRESSIVE CORP (60%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); INSURANCE INFORMATION INSTITUTE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: INSURANCE; STOCKS AND BONDS INSURANCE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); BONDS (76%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); HURRICANES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (61%); 

PERSON: ALICE SCHROEDER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



623 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 772 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW;
Cuban Door Will Reopen. Just Don't Ask When.

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THE United States seems to have tired of using the fruits of American labor as a weapon in global politics. In the span of a month, Congress eliminated China's annual trade review and President Clinton eased economic sanctions against North Korea. The State Department even dropped the term "rogue state" from its diplomatic lexicon: Libya, Iraq and Syria are now simply "states of concern."
Could the 38-year embargo on trade with Cuba be next? There's some real momentum building, but don't bet on a big breakthrough, at least while Fidel Castro is still alive. 
 Plenty of people, including some powerful business lobbying groups, are determined to see the embargo relaxed or eliminated outright. But even the most modest easing, to permit sales of food and medicine to Cuba, faces uncertain prospects in the Republican-controlled House.
Passage is closer than ever, if only because the bill's Republican sponsor, George R. Nethercutt, faces a tough re-election fight in Washington State's farm country. But the Cuban-American lobby is pushing for a compromise that would allow sales only for cash on delivery -- no credit allowed. Trade rarely flourishes under such a restriction, which is the point.
Cuban-Americans, many of them passionately anti-Castro, make up less than one-half of 1 percent of the population, but they are a political law unto themselves. Cubans are concentrated in Florida, a swing state in presidential elections, and they turn out heavily for candidates who pledge not to compromise with Mr. Castro.
Witness the way both Al Gore and George W. Bush opposed the Clinton administration's decision to send Elian Gonzalez back to Cuba with his father, defying opinion polls in the thick of the primary campaign.
"Cubans punch way above their weight in presidential politics, and that's not changing," said Max Castro, a senior researcher at the North-South Center of Miami University. "The day will come that we don't have an embargo, but I think it will have to be chipped away bit by bit."
A flurry of what Charles S. Shapiro, head of the State Department's Cuban Affairs Office, calls "changes at the margins" are already under way. More American are visiting Cuba. Some 135,000 Americans received official permission last year, up 10 percent from the year before. Some, including the Yale Glee Club and the Baltimore Orioles, flew on new direct air service to Havana from New York or Los Angeles.
The tourist flow is still small, but not irrelevant for the United States hotel industry, which remembers Cuba as the leading Caribbean destination before the Castro era. Competitors from Spain and Canada, which do not restrict trade with Cuba, are leading a rush to invest there while American chains must watch from 90 miles away. Hotel groups are among a swelling anti-embargo lobby gathering steam in Washington.
OTHER pro-trade groups are trying to make the case that Cuba's 11 million people are hungry for American goods. Paula Stern, the former chairwoman of the United States International Trade Commission who now heads her own trade consulting group, calculates that without the embargo the United States could sell $444 million of food and medicine a year in Cuba, generating 6,000 jobs.
"There's a growing sense in the business community that if we're going to trade with North Korea, Vietnam, Russia and some countries in the Middle East, why aren't we trading with Cuba?" said Thomas J. Donohue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce. "People are asking fundamental questions about a policy that's clearly illogical."
But Congress is listening with just one ear, at least so far. The Senate seems not to even want to study the matter: last week, it voted 59 to 41 against creating a special commission to research the effectiveness of the Cuba embargo.
Part of the problem is that Cuba upends the usual political order in Washington. Democrats, usually skeptical of free trade, generally want to lift the embargo, while ordinarily trade-friendly Republicans tend to want to retain it.
Larry Birns, a Cuba expert at the Council on Hemispheric Affairs in Washington, says that when the embargo finally goes, 2000 will be seen as the watershed. The Gonzalez case exposed the anti-Castro lobby as fanatical, a label that will be hard to shake, Mr. Birns said.
But he thinks the political calculus still does not favor dramatic action on the embargo, and certainly not in an election year.
"You can accuse people of hypocrisy and double standards all you want," he said. "But they're not going to do anything about it until they see a political advantage."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Exports to Cuba in 1998"
 
(in millions)
 
Spain -- $549
Venezuela -- 433
Canada -- 308
China -- 127
Russia -- 71
United States -- 4
 
(Sources: The Stern Group; C.I.A. Handbook of Trade Statistics, 1999)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (94%); CANADA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (94%); CANADA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SPAIN (92%); IRAQ (92%); SYRIA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CUBA; INTERNATIONAL TRADE EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); HOTEL CHAINS (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); LODGING (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (62%); LOBBYING (58%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); FIDEL CASTRO (79%); AL GORE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



624 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: No Safety Net;
Living Riskier Electronically

BYLINE: By AMY HARMON 

 BODY:
CONSIDER the recent string of electronic events: A virus that becomes known as the love bug causes nearly $1 billion worth of damages as it ravages computer systems across the world. The Office of National Drug Control Policy admits that it may have violated federal privacy guidelines by implanting software on the computers of its Web site visitors that tracks their travels across the Internet. Hackers seize control of Nike's corporate Web site to announce that "global justice is coming -- prepare now."
Yet even as the threats to privacy and security on the Internet thrust their way into the public consciousness, Congress overwhelmingly passes a bill that aims to turbo-charge electronic commerce by giving electronic signatures the legal weight of paper signatures -- without many provisions for security. Americans continue to transfer their personal, political, financial and even medical lives online, all the while trading horror stories about identity theft and credit card scams. 
 Is there a disconnect here?
If so, it may be because people simply can't stop themselves from using the Internet, spooked though they may be. They do not fight the nearly universal tendency to equate technology with progress. And at a time when the Internet is widely believed to be driving the buoyant economy, the financial incentives to continue on the current trajectory are huge.
But perhaps it is simpler than that: the risk seems worth it. So seductive is the technology that even its most strident critics cannot imagine voluntarily going without e-mail.
Significantly, those who are most outspoken about the privacy and security risks are no longer modern-day Luddites but computer scientists -- some of them the architects of the global computer network, which they have come to believe is insufficient to meet the demands being placed on it.
"If situation A is not working right, does it make sense to do A times 10 using the same technology?" asked Lauren Weinstein, a veteran Internet engineer and co-founder of a group called People for Internet Responsibility, which has issued a technical critique of the electronic signature bill. "That doesn't make any sense to me at all."
As reports of electronic breaches and privacy lapses roll in with increasing frequency, it has become almost an article of faith among computer security experts that the radical, global commitment to research and installing safeguards that could make the Internet more secure will not happen until a major catastrophe strikes. But there is little doubt among them that such an effort will be made some day.
"The Net's going to go fumbling along until there's a massive intrusion," said Dave Farber, an Internet pioneer and chief technologist for the Federal Communications Commission. "Then everything will hit the fan. Congress is going to go ballistic, and we're going to panic our way into doing something."
HE added, without much hope, "It would be much nicer to start talking about it now."
The technological roots of the Internet's vulnerability are well known. Conceived by the Defense Department as a decentralized communications system that would continue to function even if chunks of it were destroyed, the Internet is by its nature open and interconnected.
"The Internet was built in an age when we all knew each other, we all trusted each other, we were talking about where to have dinner and what silver futures to buy," said Mr. Farber, speaking of the scientists who built it. "Now we've moved it into an environment where the country counts on it. And it's very hard to retrofit security."
Especially with a network that is expanding so rapidly. Even as software designers and security experts scramble to fix problems that they know about, dozens of new software applications are released and hundreds of thousands of new users log on.
"The opportunity for things to go wrong is always increasing," said Robert Morris, an assistant professor of computer science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who is perhaps better known as the creator of the first Internet worm, which crippled the network in 1988. "More people are also going after things. But it's not clear who's going to win, the people who write software with bugs or the people trying to fix the bugs."
Many technologists believe that the Internet could be made considerably more secure. Cars, they note, used to be a lot less safe than they are now. That was before a combination of consumer pressure, governmental regulation and manufacturers' designs came up with seat belts and air bags and anti-lock brakes.
"I use the network extensively," said Peter Neumann, a computer security expert with SRI International. "I also know it can be brought down by anybody, anywhere in the world, in about 30 minutes. One of the things we need to do is educate the populace, so that they can take precautions."
RISK assessment has been a big topic lately on the online discussion groups at eBay, the Internet auction site that has suffered a spate of high-profile fraud attempts. Sandi Brady, 49, of Franklin, N.J., echoed a widely held view: "I struggle a little bit with using my credit card on the Internet," she said. "But for every bad transaction, there's so many more good transactions. I use common sense, I use caution, and that's no different than the caution you take in life, period."
Internet proponents argue that the vulnerabilities of the Internet are not any greater than those of the physical world -- just different. For instance, Paul Leuhr, who supervises the Federal Trade Commission's Internet fraud program, calls consumers' fears that someone will seize their credit card numbers as they travel across the network a "gross misperception." Although credit card fraud on the Internet is thought to be slightly higher than in real-world transactions, and the speed and reach of the network can make its consequences far more serious, Mr. Leuhr said, "almost always, fraud springs from the natural flaws in human behavior," such as writing down passwords or leaving credit card receipts in the garbage.
But a relatively new realm of human behavior now encompasses making policy and personal decisions about how to handle the technology that is becoming so closely woven into everyday life. And critics say greater attention to the vulnerabilities of the computer network is an important part of that.
A law that promises to eliminate costly paperwork and to speed transactions like purchasing home mortgages or paying taxes sounds great, for instance. But with no standards for ensuring the security of such documents, it could merely create a lot of confusion and litigation. Under the current law, it seems that a simple e-mail signature could qualify as binding. What happens when one party says a contract is changed after it is signed? What happens when a family paying bills online drops its Internet account?
But Margot Saunders, an attorney at the National Consumer Law Center, said the real problem for critics of the new law is that "these are all what-ifs."
"It's not intuitive because we're not seeing these problems out there and reporting back," she added. "We're just guessing."
And that in turn may help explain why it is so hard to confront the virtual impossibility of privacy and security on the Internet, or find the will to adjust behavior accordingly. It dovetails with the way people have for decades grappled with technological risk. Because it is harder to comprehend -- particularly with information technology, which is itself is so intangible -- it seems easier to dismiss the potential to do damage.
"It's not the same as getting your face smashed through the windshield," said David Mindell, a historian of technology at M.I.T. "It's a lot less clear what your risks are when you're on the Internet or moving your life management over to Internet. And it's very hard for people to change their behavior based on poorly defined risks."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo (Tony Cenicola/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NKE (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS316210 FOOTWEAR MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3149 FOOTWEAR, EXCEPT RUBBER, NEC (57%); SIC3021 RUBBER & PLASTICS FOOTWEAR (57%); SIC2339 WOMEN'S, MISSES', & JUNIORS' OUTERWEAR, NEC (57%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: NIKE INC (57%); OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF NATIONAL DRUG CONTROL POLICY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRIVACY; COMPUTER SECURITY COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (89%); INTERNET PRIVACY (89%); TRENDS (88%); COMPUTER CRIME (78%); DIGITAL SIGNATURES (78%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (77%); IDENTITY THEFT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); ONLINE SECURITY & PRIVACY (76%); INTERNET CRIME (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (71%); WEB SITES (71%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (68%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (50%); 

PERSON: HARMON, AMY

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



625 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 3; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: A Fork in the Road to Riches;
Redrawing the Map

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
THESE days, it seems, only wild-eyed anarchists and third-world dictators believe capitalism is not the high road to a better world. Free markets, growth and globalization have been the economists' mantra since the end of the cold war. But at the World Bank, the high church of development economics, a widening schism over how to fight poverty is sending ripples around the world.
Ravi Kanbur, a top Cornell economist and the man hired by the bank to oversee the writing of its World Development Report, resigned in anger recently when he was ordered to rewrite his staff's draft. The report is extremely influential among economists, and Mr. Kanbur's version questioned how well developing countries adapt to capitalism. In fact, it questioned whether the West's standard prescription for reform does enough to help the poor. 
 The draft poverty report "was read by some people as hostile to growth and reform," said Nick Stern, the incoming chief economist at the World Bank, who is charged with rewriting it. "It's a matter of tone really -- a question of emphasis -- but it was noticed."
It was indeed, and Mr. Kanbur's departure shows how the persistence of extreme poverty in Latin America, the former Soviet states, Africa and South Asia, right through the roaring 1990's, has led to skepticism about economic orthodoxy.
"No one in his right mind opposes markets or growth," said Dani Rodrick, an economist at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government who counts himself among the critics. "But there is a real disagreement about how you get it and sustain it. Should every country converge on Anglo-American-style capitalism? Or should we have tolerance to let developing countries experiment with what works best for them?"
The orthodox camp, often thought to include the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan; Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers; and Stanley Fischer, the No. 2 official at the International Monetary Fund, argues that developing countries should follow a reform formula proven to boost economic growth.
The recipe often includes trade liberalization, independent central banks, more effective and less profligate governments, privatization of state assets, and investment in health and education. The World Bank and the I.M.F. are not shy of using their enormous lending power to push for these ends.
The dissenting view diverges in subtle but significant ways. Led by Joseph E. Stiglitz, an economist who like Mr. Kanbur resigned from the World Bank after clashing with Mr. Summers and I.M.F. officials, this camp -- call them the experimentalists -- believes governments can set their own path and pace to the market. And they argue that the World Bank and the I.M.F. should tread lightly when their clients face a financial crisis like the one that swept from Thailand to Russia in the late 1990's.
China is their shining star. Beijing has gradually installed market reforms like rural industry (which employs large numbers of onetime farm workers) and the stock market, but only over 20 years. China slowly privatizes state enterprises that employ large numbers of people, and its currency has remained tightly controlled. Still, its consistent growth has lifted hundreds of millions out of poverty over the past two decades.
Mr. Kanbur's draft report, which had circulated widely on the Internet, preached a more flexible free-market gospel. "Overall, the impact of reform on growth appears to have been positive, albeit much more modest than anticipated," the report says. And economists don't really understand why nations react differently to the same medicine. For example Argentina, the report notes, grew much faster after enacting market reforms than Costa Rica. Economists don't know why.
Trade reform, in particular, has been a mixed blessing, it says, citing a study that found that tariff reductions benefit upper income groups but, in nations like Turkey, Mexico and Brazil, hurt the bottom 40 percent of the population.
The report scathingly criticizes the way the World Bank and the I.M.F. responded to the Asian crisis in late 1997, when Korea, Thailand and Indonesia had to slash their budgets and enact wrenching market reforms to receive multibillion-dollar bailouts. Such Draconian crisis management instantly unraveled a generation of progress against poverty, the report says. In Indonesia, for example, the school drop-out rates for the poorest group of children surged from 1.3 percent to 7.5 percent in 1998.
Many experimentalists have applauded Malaysia for going its own way during the Asian crisis. The nation refused I.M.F. aid, slapped controls on investment flows, and arguably had a shallower recession and faster recovery than its neighbors.
The orthodox group, for its part, believes the record shows a strong correlation between reform and growth, and between growth and poverty reduction. Uganda and Poland, they say, have aggressively emulated Western market economies and done more to help their poor than their less ambitious neighbors.
Mr. Summers, who says that differences between the two camps are exaggerated, stresses that both the World Bank and the I.M.F. have constantly evolving strategies aimed at fighting poverty. Trade reform, Mr. Summers says, tends to benefit the poorest of all -- the rural poor. That's because reform tends to open new markets for the cash crops they sell, raising their incomes. He cited Mozambique, where the World Bank recommended eliminating an export tax on raw cashew nuts. It's poor farmers, though, not the cashew processors, who want the tax lifted, Mr. Summers said.
The bottom line for Mr. Summers and Mr. Stern is that no antipoverty strategy can succeed without the growth free markets produce. Growth is "the most potent weapon against poverty ever invented," Mr. Summers said, adding that reform must be supplemented by direct antipoverty initiatives like the World Bank's funding of AIDS prevention and education programs for African girls.
Economists are still sweating the details, but this much is clear: Progress against poverty is becoming a litmus test for global economic leaders.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Shanghai, an expressway is being constructed through the middle of the city. (Fritz Hoffmann for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Growth, but Mixed Gain"
 
Despite a decade of econmic growth and globalization, recent data from the World Bank show uneven progress in reducing income poverty in developing regions.
 
PERCENTAGE OF PEOPLE LIVING ON LESS THAN ONE DOLLAR PER DAY
 
East Asia and the Pacific
 
'87: 26.6%
'90: 27.6%
'93: 25.2%
'96: 14.9%
'98: 15.3%
 
East Asia and the Pacific, Excluding China
 
'87: 23.9%
'90: 18.5%
'93: 15.9%
'96: 10.0%
'98: 11.3%
 
Eastern Europe and Central Asia
 
'87: 0.2%
'90: 1.6%
'93: 4.0%
'96: 5.1%
'98: 5.1%
 
Latin America and the Carribean
 
'87: 15.3%
'90: 16.8%
'93: 15.3%
'96: 15.6%
'98: 15.6%
 
Middle East North Africa
 
'87: 4.3%
'90: 2.4%
'93: 1.9%
'96: 1.8%
'98: 1.9%
 
South Asia
 
'87: 44.9%
'90: 44.0%
'93: 42.4%
'96: 42.3%
'98: 40.0%
 
Sub-Saharan Africa
 
'87: 46.6%
'90: 47.7%
'93: 49.7%
'96: 48.5%
'98: 46.3%
(Source: World Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ASIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT LAWRENCE H STEIN (53%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (94%); AFRICA (93%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); EASTERN ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (92%); SOUTHERN ASIA (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPE (79%); THAILAND (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); EAST CHINA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TRENDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); COLD WAR (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH LAWRENCE SUMMERS (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



626 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: The World: An Inseparable Church and State;
On Greeks Playing the Euro Card

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: ROME

 BODY:
ON Monday, the European Union tapped Greece to become the latest member to adopt the euro as a common currency. The approval was recognition that Greece, and its newly trimmed economy, was ready to join the club of modern Europe.
On Wednesday, Orthodox church leaders gathered hundreds of thousands of protesters carrying Greek flags and crucifixes in what was the second mass demonstration this month to protest the government's decision to remove religious affiliation from state identity cards, which brings it in line with other members of the European Union. 
 The government views the change as a way to protect minorities and a natural step on the path to European integration and custom. The church, however, views it as an assault on Greek nationalism and identity, and its own authority. "Resist, my dear Christians," Archbishop Christodoulos told cheering crowds. "The forces of globalization and religious marginalization are out to get us."
The clash between national identity and the homogenized political values of a newly integrated Europe is found in other countries eager to be let in. These days, Greece is a society tugged in opposite directions, as it tries to reconcile its past with its uncertain future. It is a member of the European Union and of NATO, yet it is also the poorest country in the European Union and the only one where the Orthodox faith is dominant. Though the country has placed its economic future in Europe, it is also a Balkan nation, bound by history and geography to ancient, unresolved conflicts and festering grievances.
Interest rates, inflation and government spending are the criteria for entrance into the euro. But membership has other implicit rules of conduct, including religious pluralism and commitment to security. Greece has passed the economic hurdle, but still struggles with the social and cultural costs.
Church and state are not separate in Greece, where 97 percent of the population is Orthodox, and the constitution stipulates that the Orthodox religion is dominant. The country's small Muslim minority is viewed with suspicion by many Greeks who are insecure about Turkey, and who view the recent, new waves of immigration, particularly from Albania, as a source of crime and unemployment.
The country has not taken the same steps to eradicate left-wing terrorism that Germany and Italy took in the 1980's. The Greek terrorist organization November 17, which earlier this month took responsibility for the assassination of the British defense attache in Athens, has committed hundreds of assassinations and bombings in the last 25 years without a single arrest. Greece's failure to combat terrorism successfully is one of the most glaring clashes between the country and its Western partners. The American ambassador to Greece, R. Nicholas Burns, called terrorism "the defining issue between Greece's past and future." There are others.
Greece's loyalty to its allies was most sharply put to the test during the NATO bombing campaign in Serbia. The socialist government of Prime Minister Costas Simitis felt bound to support, or at least not inhibit, the allied bombing campaign, but 99 percent of Greek citizens fiercely opposed the war, prompted by sympathy for the Serbs, who share their faith, and a deeply ingrained anti-Americanism forged when Washington supported the military junta that ruled Greece from 1969 to 1974.
Membership in the euro brings economic and social upheavals that worry many who may not immediately benefit from a new global economy. "The church doesn't exactly speak for them, but it is expressing their anxieties," said Nikiforos Diamandoros, a political science professor who is also Greece's ombudsman.
The country's large population of self-employed small-business men and civil servants are two groups least likely to thrive under globalization, he said. "People who feel threatened by a new economic order have conflated the state identity card with cultural identity," Professor Diamandoros said.
Nationalism has lost some of its political edge as Greece seeks integration with Europe and rapprochement with Turkey, but insecurity about the economic and social costs of assimilation has helped it resurface. While Mr. Simitis's socialist party, Pasok, has shed much of the left-wing populism of the past and toed a more centrist, pro-European line, along with the opposition party, the Greek Orthodox Church has filled the vacuum.
And it is heeded. The church played a huge role in preserving Greek language and culture under the Ottoman Empire. It was one of the few institutions providing moral leadership during the Nazi occupation. Even Greeks who are not particularly religious are not dismissive of the church's role.
AND perhaps emboldened by the popularity of its anti-NATO stance during the war in Kosovo, the church has asserted itself more strongly of late. The church is worried that the country plans to institute a separation of church and state, which among other things would drastically reduce church income.
The battle over the identity cards hit a nerve throughout Greek society. More than 70 percent support adopting the euro, viewing it as a passport to economic growth and stability.
Yet, in a recent poll, 40 percent said they supported the church's stance on identity cards. And that seems to be less about religious fervor than the tension between Greece's traditionalist past and modern future.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Greek Orthodox clerics in the mass protest last week against changes in the identity card. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); ITALY (79%); 

CITY: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (94%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREECE; EUROPE; EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GREECE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); ALBANIA (79%); SOUTHEASTERN EUROPE (79%); TURKEY (79%); ITALY (79%); ATHENS, GREECE (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EUROCURRENCY; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; IDENTIFICATION DEVICES RELIGION (96%); EUROPEAN UNION (92%); EURO (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); TERRORISM (87%); CURRENCIES (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (77%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ETHICS (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); NEWS BRIEFS (72%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); BOMBINGS (70%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (66%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



627 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
The Border War For the Bibulous

BYLINE: By FRANK J. PRIAL 

 BODY:
L'ECOLE NO. 41 is a bustling little winery in Lowden, Wash., not far from Walla Walla. Their 1997 Columbia River Cabernet Sauvignon is a wine to put plenty of better-known California cabernets to shame. But they don't make much wine at L'Ecole No. 41 and unless you plan to be traveling in eastern Washington soon, you may have trouble finding it.
You could ask them to send you a case, but that would be unwise, at least without some advice from your lawyer. In most of this country, you can buy just about anything by phone or over the Internet, from guns to pornography, and have it shipped to your home. Try it with wine, though, and you may be committing a felony. 
 Since Prohibition ended 67 years ago, wine and spirits have made their way to consumers through the so-called three-tiered system -- intended to keep mobsters out of the booze business. Wineries must sell their products to a licensed wholesaler, who sells it to a licensed retailer. Producers may not own any part of the wholesalers, who may have no financial interest in retailers.
Over the last 30 years, however, the number of American wineries has exploded, while the number of wholesalers has plummeted, squeezing all but the larger producers out of the distribution system. There are some 800 wineries in California alone, producing more than 4,000 different wines. But 500 of these producers are tiny, producing perhaps 1 percent of all California wine. Nationally, just 49 wineries produce 90 percent of the domestic wine Americans drink.
Most of the wines that are unavailable beyond the states in which they are made are expensive, but wine lovers, and there are a lot of them, don't want their choices dictated by a few distributors. "The price doesn't bother me," said a New York stockbroker with an extensive wine cellar, "it's the fact that I can't buy them here and I can't have them shipped to me."
Wholesalers, on the other hand, are terrified of direct shipment, which would enable anyone to surf the Web for interesting wines, and order them via credit card or phone. In fact, there is already a thriving direct shipment business for small case lots of wine.
"What began as a cottage industry catering to collectors of hard-to-find wines has become a coast-to-coast $1-billion-a-year enterprise," an industry trade group, the Wine and Spirits Wholesalers of America, warned in a statement last year. The Wine Institute, the research and promotional arm of the wine producers, contends that the figure is closer to $350 million.
Direct shipment "in most states illegally bypasses laws requiring alcohol sellers to be licensed by the state," the wholesalers group said. "It also avoids taxes and makes it easier for underage people to purchase alcohol."
To bring home the supposed danger to the nation's youth from mail-order wine, the industry staged events at which teenagers purchased wine and spirits over the phone or Internet. Direct shipment supporters promptly filled wine publications and Web sites with parodies depicting 14-year-olds guzzling illegally obtained Mondavi Reserve Cabernet and Chateau Lafite-Rothschild in their basements.
Underage drinking and tax collection are problems, said John DeLuca, president of the Wine Institute. But the "loss of income from the direct sales" was the wholesalers' real worry, he said.
This would appear to be the case, since the wine distributors have said that they would support direct shipment, if wine sellers "clear" their sales. Clear, in this case, means paying a commission to wholesalers and retailers for doing nothing. One start-up, called WineShopper.com, says that by using this system, it will supply "thousands of wines" directly to the consumer or to a retailer nearby.
Both the wholesalers and the wineries claim the law for their side. The wholesalers and the states cite the 21st Amendment, which gives the states the right to regulate the liquor industry within their borders. The wineries and consumer groups claim that to single out wine for special controls is discriminatory and a restraint of trade, violating the Interstate Commerce Clause, the Sherman Antitrust Act and even the First Amendment.
FEDERAL district courts in Indiana and Texas have thrown out laws banning direct shipment -- both decisions are on appeal -- and similar suits are pending in half a dozen other states. In the meantime, according to the Wine Institute, 30 states allow some form of direct shipment. Thirteen of them reciprocate with other wine-producing states, some demand permits, some limit the amount of wine a consumer can buy, and 10 allow intrastate shipments only.
Until this legal patchwork is sorted out by the courts, John S. Dyson, former New York State commissioner of agriculture and deputy mayor for finance and economic development under Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, seems to have discovered the nearest thing to a solution.
Mr. Dyson was enamored of the wines of Williams Selyem, a small winery in Healdsburg, Calif., which sells all its famous pinot noirs to an exclusive mail order list. Soon after Williams Selyem told its customers that that law prevented it from shipping any more wine to New York, Mr. Dyson bought the winery for $9.5 million. He already owned Millbrook Vineyards in New York State, and as a vintner was entitled to ship wines from California with impunity.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The cellar of a New York wine merchant. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALERS OF AMERICA COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (62%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (62%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (62%); WINE INSTITUTE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: WINE AND SPIRITS WHOLESALERS OF AMERICA WINE INSTITUTE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES WINERIES (92%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (91%); WHOLESALERS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (89%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); ORGANIZED CRIME (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RETAILERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (67%); FELONIES (54%); 

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



628 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer;
Portraits of Southern Lives Show a Record of Pain and Progress

BYLINE: By HOWELL RAINES 

 BODY:
For someone who knew the South during the days of de jure segregation, The New York Times's series on race in America describes a world of routine social interaction that could be imagined only by rebels, visionaries and dreamers -- almost all of them black -- from the vantage point of, say, Birmingham in 1957. As the series shows, the new multiracial society announced into our national consciousness by the breakthrough victories of the Southern civil rights movement is not free of economic and cultural tensions, of mistrust and plain old prejudice. The series documents that no part of America, North or South, East or West, has fully created what Representative John Lewis calls "the beloved community." It also shows that what was once viewed as a regional story told in black and white is now national in scope and multi-ethnic in content.
All that said, I found that three articles set in my native South stirred a desire to bear witness to the persistence of some distinctly regional themes in this broad narrative about race in America's new century. For example, it seemed especially appropriate to me that the series began with Kevin Sack's story on June 4 about an integrated Pentecostal congregation in suburban Atlanta. Think of the historical convergences in that setting and subject. 
 Atlanta was the spiritual capital of the Confederate South, the intellectual home of the New South economic-development movement, and the command center of the civil rights revolution and the black preachers who led it. The centrality of the black church to racial transformation in America can hardly be overstated. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and his colleagues forged the stories of Moses and Jesus into mighty social weapons. Nor can the failure of the white church in the South be overstated. Its preachers stood in fearful silence. Its congregants tried to ignore the inner voices insisting that belief in the gospels allowed but one response to segregation. While Mr. Sack's reporting found that the Assembly of God Tabernacle may not have perfected the beloved community, its members' effort to do so, within the twin shadows of Stone Mountain and Ebenezer Baptist Church, seems to me apt and momentous.
Ebenezer's most famous pastor, Dr. King, had a special genius for defining the links between economic oppression and racial conflict. His lessons in that regard came to mind when I read Charlie LeDuff's article on June 16 about the black, white, Mexican and Native-American work force at the Smithfield Packing Company's plant in Tar Heel, N.C. For generations, Northern industrial corporations treated the South as a colonial enterprise. They used black-white tensions to keep out unions and fattened their profits through a two-tiered wage system -- low pay for whites, lower still for blacks. In comparison, tenant farmers enjoyed a kind of rough parity. The crop-lien system kept blacks and whites equally impoverished, although blacks could be hanged as well as starved.
But whether in the factory or on the farm, Southern workers were schooled to understand a brutal financial fact. If you will not take this harsh, low-paying, dead-end job, some other hungry person will. What is taking place in North Carolina shows that in the Southern industrial environment, change does not always bring progress. The tough-minded employer in Tar Heel is a Southern firm. Mexican immigrants have replaced blacks and Appalachian whites as the workers willing to take the lowest wages with the fewest complaints. And according to Mr. LeDuff's reporting, there is still truth to Dr. King's teaching that the competition among poor people for grinding jobs brews frustrations that are expressed through racial conflict.
It is a far piece from Tar Heel to Natchitoches, La., where Ginger Thompson reported on the effort to preserve Magnolia Plantation. That article last Thursday reminded me of perhaps the greatest scholarly lesson of the last half-century of race relations in the Southern region and the country at large. That lesson is simply that we may more accurately speak of American histories, rather than a single, monolithic American history. From Colonial Williamsburg to Acadian Louisiana, most preservation efforts have focused on preserving the big house and celebrating the lives of its inhabitants. At Williamsburg and later at Magnolia, a National Park Service ranger named Carla Cowles worked to add the buildings and human histories of the slave quarter to the story of the big house.
Ms. Thompson's article is too complex to summarize here, but the resonant quote with which it ended lingers in recollection as a comment on a broad swath of social experience. That experience has consisted of remarkable levels of social integration in places like the Atlanta church, new levels of intellectual honesty about the past in Natchitoches and, less happily, a persistence of obdurate patterns in Tar Heel and many other places as well. Betty Hertzog, the 70-year-old owner of Magnolia Plantation, spoke of moving away from a property that has been in her family for 200 years. She would depart knowing, of course, that Magnolia Plantation will be used to teach a version of Southern history far more complex than that associated with the traditional plantation "tours" of decades past.
"Used to be that it was hard to leave this old place," Ms. Hertzog said. "But now it's harder and harder to stay."
Something similar might be said about race relations in America today. As The Times's series documents, those relations are full of tension at both the philosophical and quotidian levels. But for millions of Americans of all colors, staying in the old place was not, in the end, a tolerable possibility. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (61%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITHFIELD PACKING CO INC (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (95%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; SURVEYS AND SERIES CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (87%); RELIGION (87%); NATIVE AMERICANS (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); LABOR FORCE (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (60%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (50%); 

PERSON: RAINES, HOWELL MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JOHN LEWIS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



629 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING: FUNDS WATCH;
Finding Profits In Abandoned Debt

BYLINE: International Herald Tribune

 BODY:
Julian Adams followed the Korean summit meeting earlier this month with keen interest. Apart from the fact that it was the first event of its kind in half a century, the meeting fascinated him for a very tangible reason: Kim Jong Il, the elusive North Korean leader, owes him some money.
Mr. Adams manages the $7 million Aberdeen Exotic Debt fund, which specializes in debt issued by five countries -- Cuba, Iraq, North Korea, Serbia and Sudan. For various political reasons, these countries are not on the buy lists of most emerging-markets mutual fund managers, but they have nevertheless managed to run up debt to foreign banks that they are having trouble repaying. 
 Indeed, the economic backdrops in these countries are poor, and the prospects of repayment -- of interest, let alone principal -- are seen by the market as remote at best, Mr. Adams said.
A result is that prices have fallen to levels that factor in just about every further bad thing that may happen. Sudan's debt, for example, can be bought for 3.5 cents on the dollar.
Aside from the Korean meeting, a number of other developments in the world could give such debt a boost, Mr. Adams said. The climb in oil prices is bringing desperately needed foreign currency to Sudan, for instance. And in the aftermath of the Elian Gonzalez custody dispute, the United States Congress could ease the Cuban trade embargo.
"It's a tiny part of the market, but there's a lot going on with the countries involved," Mr. Adams said.
But that is the problem: As heartening as these developments may be, they have not done much to lift prices. In the days after the Korean meeting, for example, the price of North Korean debt moved up only slightly.
Two or three years ago, North Korean and Cuban debt traded at 59 cents and 28 cents on the dollar, respectively. At the beginning of June, both traded at about 10 cents on the dollar.
Investors in Aberdeen Exotic, based in London, should be prepared for a long and bumpy ride, and lawyers caution that Americans are prohibited from most kinds of Cuban investments in which the fund is engaged. (Investors should be relatively wealthy too, as the minimum investment for the fund is $100,000.)
Since its start on Jan. 31 through June 9, Aberdeen Exotic has had a return of 8.9 percent.
But Mr. Adams is waiting for the big score. "We're not investing to make 10 percent," he said. "We're investing to make 100 percent."
Over the last week, as the market has absorbed the news of the lifting of American financial sanctions against North Korea, the price of its debt has risen from 10 cents on the dollar to 14.25 cents. North Korean debt represents Aberdeen Exotic's largest country exposure, accounting for about 35 percent of assets.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kim Jong Il

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); SUDAN (91%); ASIA (79%); SERBIA (77%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FINANCIAL HOLDINGS INC (50%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL TITLE CO (50%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL ENTERPRISES INC (50%); AMERICAN FINANCIAL CORP (50%); ABERDEEN EXOTIC (87%); 

ORGANIZATION: ABERDEEN EXOTIC (87%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (92%); SUDAN (91%); ASIA (79%); SERBIA (77%); LONDON, ENGLAND (52%); 

SUBJECT: FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (76%); MUTUAL FUNDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); TRENDS (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); 

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



630 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 14; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL BUSINESS: DIARY;
Cash Remains the Best Perk

BYLINE: AP

 BODY:
With dot-com madness apparently on the wane, technology workers might want to take advantage of the perks while they last. For now, technology companies are finding that they must offer employees everything from game rooms to massage therapy and laundry services to keep them happy.
Finding, hiring and retaining top-notch employees is the biggest challenge for most of the 500 high-technology chief executives surveyed recently by Deloitte & Touche, the consulting firm. Fifty-five percent said it was important to dangle creative workplace perks to attract the best workers. 
 ActionPoint, a software company in San Jose, Calif., has a game room. Analytical Graphics. in Malvern, Pa., provides dry cleaning, haircuts, laundry sites and massage services at the office.
Of course, that old standby -- cash -- is still No. 1. Some 98 percent of the chief executives said bonuses remained the ultimate incentive.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (72%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (67%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); 

COMPANY: DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (67%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY AND FOREIGN EXCHANGE EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (71%); MASSAGE SERVICES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



631 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 3; Page 20; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: The Outer Limits Of Antitrust Law

 BODY:

To the Editor:
"Microsoft Will Test Justices' Prowess" (June 4) asked whether the Supreme Court justices have the technical competence to address the Microsoft antitrust case. As a former antitrust lawyer, I think that the court will have little difficulty.
But the important question is whether existing antitrust legislation, conceived 100 years ago, is an appropriate standard for evaluating anticompetitive behavior today. 
 Consider that the economy was heavily industrialized at the turn of the 20th century and that railroads were the only effective means of transportation. Entry barriers to new competitors were formidable. A railroad or steel company that engaged in anticompetitive conduct could do enormous economic damage. Contrast that to today's high-tech world where the half-life of firms is very short, business models are rapidly rendered obsolete, and there are often no appreciable entry barriers.
As powerful as Microsoft may be, it is fair to question whether its current business model will even be relevant in 10 years.
This is not to say that high-technology companies are incapable of anticompetitive conduct, or that the antitrust laws should be scrapped. To the contrary. But the question remains whether the antitrust laws should be amended in light of today's different economic world. The statute books are full of examples where the Congress has recognized that unique industry characteristics call for a unique regulatory regime.
But judges are not legislators; the task of revisiting antitrust policy belongs to Congress. The court may correctly apply the law in this case, but we may regret the consequences.
 
NICHOLAS P. MOROS
Cherry Hills Village, Colo., June 4 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: COLORADO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (95%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



632 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 14LI; Page 19; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk

LENGTH: 198 words

HEADLINE: Benefit of LIPA Rate Cut Masks Long-Term Costs

 BODY:

Re: "$5 Billion Benefit Seen From LIPA Rate Cut" June 4 :
The benefit of mortgaging our future to reap a minor gain today escapes me. The rate cut was financed by floating a bond whose principal and interest will be repaid by all New York State taxpayers. Lilco's Shoreham financial folly lives on, now subsidized by innocents throughout the state who have never even heard of Shoreham, while Lilco/LIPA managers and stockholders continue to escape from their mischief unscathed. 
 Another prime example of borrow now, spend now, pay later, this one with the insidious economic three-card monte of lower current electricity rates.
The denial of the economic reality that our total cost must by necessity be greater diminishes the credibility of academic economists and reinforces the obvious: that the lower rates are nothing more than sugar coating intending to make the situation more palatable for politically expedient purposes.
Sorry, Mr. Pataki, Dr. Kellner, Mr. Kessel, et al., but many of us can see through your transparent machinations and we do not agree that the penny saved today makes up for the dollar to be spent tomorrow.
 
HEINZ ROSEN
Huntington 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. UTILITY RATES (73%); BOND ISSUES (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



633 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1111 words

HEADLINE: Statehouse Journal;
Economic Crisis Costly For Louisiana Governor

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: BATON ROUGE, La., June 22

 BODY:
For a few high-flying months in his first term, Mike Foster might have been the most popular governor in America, riding a brief economic boom and his Harley-Davidson Road King to unheard-of approval ratings in the range of 70 percent to 80 percent.
But the good years never seem to last long in Louisiana. Inevitably, they are overtaken by an extreme statewide poverty virtually unparalleled in the nation, along with an addiction to oil revenues that frequently run dry. When this year's state budget could not be balanced without a sales tax increase on food, Mike Foster fell back to earth, hard. And it is unclear whether the economy will allow him to ascend again in the last three years of his second term. 
 A poll released on Monday by Southern Media and Opinion Research found that Mr. Foster now has an approval rating of 54.8 percent, which many governors might consider a blessing. But in April, the same poll gave him an approval rating of 69.4 percent, and in March 1999, his approval reached a high of 82 percent. Bernie R. Pinsonat, who conducted the poll, said the governor's popularity has been in a "free fall" since the budget crisis developed earlier this year after several years of surpluses.
Mr. Foster, a gruff, wealthy Republican who often spends weekends at his private duck-hunting camp, has never been popular among the state's black residents, particularly after admitting that in 1995 he secretly bought the contributors list of David Duke, the former Ku Klux Klan wizard. But he has always had a strong following among rural and suburban white voters, and among business leaders. Both groups seem to be deserting him now.
"He was the darling of the business community during his first term," said Pete deGravelles, chairman of the Greater Lafayette Chamber of Commerce and a boyhood friend of Mr. Foster. "But he really shocked us after he was re-elected last year. All of a sudden he was talking about a whole bunch of new business taxes. It was a whole different tone, and a lot of people were disappointed."
Even legislators of his own party have criticized how the governor handled what became a surprise fiscal emergency. Gathered in the state's Capitol this week for an unusual special session to complete the budget, several lawmakers said they wished Mr. Foster had better informed the public about the state's economic condition.
"Frankly, he isn't exactly the great communicator," said state Representative Victor T. Stelly, a Republican from Lake Charles. "We've had governors like Edwin Edwards and Buddy Roemer who could charm the socks off a billy goat, and he's not the charismatic type."
Mr. Foster, who says he has no political ambitions after he is required to leave office in 2004, insisted that he is not concerned about the falloff in popularity. "That's what happens when you have a budget crisis pop up on you," he said in an interview, though he acknowledged that he could have done better in explaining the teetering economy to the public.
"I guess I've had a difficult time getting that across," he said. "After you have a few good years, people aren't prepared for a downturn, they haven't had that much pain. There's a kind of disconnect there that makes it very difficult to govern."
Louisiana is one of the few states that is having trouble balancing its budget in a period of national prosperity, but its economy and civic health have always followed a different course than the rest of the nation, or even the South. It has the second-highest poverty rate of any state (after much-smaller New Mexico), and the gap between its wealthiest and poorest residents is the nation's widest and is growing. This month it was ranked the worst state for children by the Annie E. Casey Foundation, a private, charitable organization based in Baltimore.
And according to census data, Louisiana was the only Southern state where more people moved out than moved in during the 1990's. While 3.6 million Americans moved to the South, Louisiana experienced a net migration loss of 140,000 people.
Mr. Foster, like several of his predecessors, has tried to solve some long-term problems by improving the state's educational system. But he has found that his state does not have enough money to bring teacher salaries into line even with the rest of the South, a region that already trails the national average. The state is one of the most lightly taxed in the country.
For decades, state government relied on the oil and gas industry as a reliable source of revenue that provided up to 40 percent of the state budget as recently as the 1980's. But with the depletion of the state's energy resources, oil is now supplying less than 10 percent of the budget, and the state is relying on gambling, a high sales tax and a low income tax for most of its revenues.
After the price of oil dropped precipitously last year, the industry laid off nearly 13,000 people, which quickly rippled through the economy and produced a sharp plunge in state revenues. Loren C. Scott, an economics professor at Louisiana State University, said the governor and the Legislature also engaged in some questionable budgeting practices, such as using one-time revenues from the national tobacco settlement for operating expenses.
And so this year, faced with a budget deficit of nearly $400 million, the governor and the Legislature raised the state sales tax on food and utilities by a penny to 4 cents on the dollar, cut personal income tax deductions and increased taxes on telephone calls and tobacco. Many Democratic legislators were furious that business lobbyists prevented any new taxes on the oil and gas industry or on casino gambling, and education advocates said the package did little to improve the state's school system.
At the same time, though, the Legislature sent a proposed constitutional amendment to voters that would lower the state's dependence on the sales tax, while raising the income tax enough to increase teacher salaries. Economists say such a change would finally allow state revenues to grow with the economy, unlike the current system in which more than half of revenues come from sales taxes.
But considering the mood the voters are in, few people expect the amendment to pass in November. Mr. Foster acknowledges the difficulty he faces in selling the tax package, hoping he still has a reserve of popularity left from which to draw.
"Of course we're undertaxed, but no one wants to hear that from me," he said. "I'm just going to have to tell people and not worry about the consequences. We're in the worst of all worlds if I have to start worrying about what my popularity is."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mike Foster is being attacked from many sides. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "THE RANKING -- Low Numbers"
Louisiana collects less money per capita than all but five other states. Here are the bottom 10 states ranked by the tax burden per capita.
 
State: Florida
Tax burden: $1,509
 
State: Arizona
Tax burden: 1,488
 
State: Colorado
Tax burden: 1,485
 
State: South Carolina
Tax burden: 1,482
 
State: Louisiana
Tax burden: 1,392
 
State: Alabama
Tax burden: 1,318
 
State: Tennessee
Tax burden: 1,288
 
State: Texas
Tax burden: 1,246
 
State: South Dakota
Tax burden: 1,130
 
State: New Hampshire
Tax burden: 851
 
(Sources: U.S. Bureau of the Census, Federation of Tax Administrators)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA; UNITED STATES (97%); LOUISIANA, USA (97%); COLORADO, USA (79%); BATON ROUGE, LA, USA (79%); LAKE CHARLES, LA, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES TAX (75%); TAX LAW (75%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID; FOSTER, MIKE (GOV) DAVID FOSTER (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



634 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: RECKONINGS;
Driving Under the Influence

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN; Maureen Dowd is on vacation.

 BODY:
There's something almost reassuring about how predictably our politicians have reacted to those high gasoline prices in the Midwest. The president, oddly unwilling to criticize his own Environmental Protection Agency, hints broadly that oil companies are rigging the market. The governor of Texas, oddly unwilling to criticize oil companies, blames excessive government regulation. Major Strasser has been shot -- round up the usual suspects!
But a sober report from the Congressional Research Service blames neither the E.P.A. nor the oil companies -- though a close reading suggests that both deserve a slap on the wrist for being caught unawares by a shortage they should have seen coming. And the report also answers the obvious question raised by other theories -- why this is happening in Chicago and Milwaukee, but not in New York. 
 What's special about the Midwest? Well, for one thing, it's a long way from the ocean. (No!) So the preferred method of delivery for petroleum and petroleum products is by pipeline. And as it happens two important pipelines have had problems -- a fire in one, a leak in the other -- whose aftereffects are still disrupting supply. The C.R.S. report attributes about half of the 50-cent differential between gasoline prices in the Midwest and elsewhere to pipeline troubles.
The other thing that's special about the Midwest is that it is America's agricultural heartland, where the corn is as high as an elephant's eye -- and the ethanol lobby is even more powerful than it is elsewhere. And the C.R.S. thinks that the other half of the differential is due to local rules in corn-belt cities, which force refiners to meet new federal environmental regulations using ethanol rather than other, technically less demanding gasoline additives.
The use of ethanol -- the same stuff that gives beer its buzz -- as a fuel is one of those bad ideas that just won't go away. Back in the late-70's ethanol produced from corn was promoted as the perfect answer to the energy crisis: it was renewable, it was domestic, and it was supposed to be less polluting.
A couple of decades and quite a few billion dollars in subsidies and tax breaks later -- gasoline that contains 10 percent ethanol still pays lower taxes, amounting to a 54-cent subsidy per gallon of ethanol -- it is clear that the fuel's virtues were exaggerated. For one thing, modern farming is an energy-intensive business, and still more energy is needed to convert corn into ethanol. So this is a fuel that requires almost as much energy to produce as it releases when you burn it. True, ethanol is an "oxidant" that helps gasoline run cleaner; but other oxidants are easier to deal with. Those other oxidants pose pollution problems; but so does ethanol, which tends to make gasoline evaporate too easily, contributing to smog in the summer months. Put it all together and you have a product with no special virtue to recommend it, certainly no virtue that warrants a billion or so dollars a year in tax breaks and subsidies.
But the political influence of the ethanol producers has proved untouchable. Or perhaps I should say "producer" rather than "producers." Most of the benefit from ethanol's special status goes not to the farmers but to those who turn corn into ethanol, and about half that business is controlled by one company: Archer Daniels Midland, the company that runs all those ads during news programs. Actually, those ads are a giveaway: when people spend large sums trying to convince you of how wonderful they are, without then trying to sell you something, you ought to suspect that they are up to no good. And in the past, A.D.M. -- one of the nation's biggest political contributors -- was up to quite a lot of no good: price-fixing, influence-buying, you name it.
To be fair, the Midwest gasoline squeeze wasn't a predictable result of the ethanol lobby's efforts. Were it not for the other factors -- extremely low inventories, surging demand from a booming, S.U.V.-driving economy and all that -- the rules that force Midwestern refiners to use ethanol wouldn't have had such spectacular consequences. Still, perhaps this summer of discontent will have a good effect, by alerting the public to a large, ongoing, bipartisan example of really bad policy. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (76%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (76%); CONGRESSIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDWEST USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ETHANOL OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); GASOLINE MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (89%); ETHANOL (89%); BIOFUELS (89%); ALCOHOLS (89%); FUEL ADDITIVES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (76%); TAX LAW (76%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (64%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (64%); 

PERSON: KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



635 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: 50,000 Genes, and We Know Them All (Almost)

BYLINE: By David Baltimore; David Baltimore, the president of the California Institute of Technology, won the Nobel prize in medicine in 1975.

DATELINE: PASADENA, Calif.

 BODY:
Humans have no more genetic secrets; our genes are a book open to all to read. It is expected that the federal government and Celera Genomics will announce tomorrow that a rough draft of the total genetic constitution of the human species, its genome, has been completed. The draft information is on a Web site, available to the world.
The genome is really a generic representation of our genes -- each of us actually carries small variations on the basic sequence. We already know hundreds of thousands of the major variants that occur. But our own personal genetic endowments are discoverable only at high cost, though the price is likely to descend rapidly. 
 How does the genome change our lives now that these secrets are laid so bare?
First, it confirms something obvious and expected, yet controversial: our genes look much like those of fruit flies, worms and even plants. Should there be any doubt -- and, unfortunately, there is vehement doubt in some circles -- the genome shows that we all descended from the same humble beginnings and that the connections are written in our genes. That should be, but won't be, the end of creationism.
The genome also tells us much about an organism's complexity. The differences between us and flies is poorly measured by the number of genes encoded in our DNA. Although there is much work left to do to determine the total number of human genes -- and a famous bet is in progress on the final number -- it is looking like 50,000 is a reasonable estimate.
That is not that far away from our estimate of the number of genes in a fly (14,000) or a worm (18,000). Yet we are much more complex than such lowly critters. How can so few more genes generate so much more apparent complexity? The answer is partly that flies and worms have lots of genes that do specific things for them. The genes that encode the basic functions of life -- for people, flies, worms and even bacteria -- are only a few hundred to a few thousand.
The other genes elaborate the specific characteristics of particular organisms. A single gene can be responsible for a great complexity of functions. Genes are just information encoded along a long string of the chemical DNA; they cannot do anything themselves. What genes encode is the structures of proteins, which are the working machinery of living beings. They let us walk and talk and think big thoughts.
One gene can encode many, often 10 or more, different proteins. To carry out different activities, the proteins can vary in amount, be put in different combinations, or be modified. It is the number of proteins, not genes, that determine complexity -- and that is where the true complexity of human life will be measured.
The genome will also speed up work for scientists. The information from the federal program has been placed on the Web as it was acquired and has already been very useful. It will have an increasing impact. No longer will science and medicine proceed with deep uncertainty over how many genes relate to a particular process. No longer will students and postdoctoral fellows spend long months trying to isolate genes -- they will now simply look them up on the Web. We will now have a wholly new ability: to ask scientific questions about not a single gene, but the entire genome. Now drugs can be developed for every protein to alter its function and help clear up a malfunction.
However, we should not think that now biology will simply be a process of tying up loose ends. The DNA sequence tells us little about the functions of the genes or their role in the body's overall economy. At best, the sequence lets us infer a gene's capabilities, but only experiments will validate or invalidate those inferences. Even experiments on the entire genome will generally only pose questions that need to be answered by experiments on single genes.
My guess is that the next half-century will be taken up with understanding the roles of each of the human genes. And that will only happen if the projected financing for the work of the National Institutes of Health is continued. Moreover, this first draft of the genome is hardly the last word. The federal program is committed to a high-quality, virtually error-free product, and that is a year or two off. Funding for this effort needs to be maintained.
Finally, the race to complete the genome tells us much about how scientific research should be conducted. There has been extensive media coverage of the acrimonious competition between the government program and that of Celera. But we should put this in perspective and recognize that the government program was centrally organized and therefore had to settle on a single strategy. This compromised a central value of science, testing multiple strategies. That is the essence of scientific competition. Thus, Celera's ability to amass the resources necessary to compete with the federal program helped move the whole effort forward in a more fluid, and ultimately, more effective way. That the two programs plan to coordinate their efforts and publish their genome findings in the same issue of a journal represents a healthier relationship.
The very celebration of the completion of the human genome is a rare day in the history of science: an event of historic significance is recognized not in retrospect, but as it is happening. It shows the scientific community at its best and most modern, carrying out a program requiring elaborate collaboration, new technology and the latest computer-assisted methods.
Modern biology is a science of information. The sequencing of the genome is a landmark of progress in specifying information, decoding it into its many coded meanings and learning how it goes wrong in disease. While it is a moment worthy of the attention of every human, we should not mistake progress for a solution. There is yet much hard work to be done.
It will take many decades to fully comprehend the magnificence of the DNA edifice built over four billion years of evolution and held in the nucleus of each cell of the body of each organism on earth.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christoph Niemann)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (59%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (59%); CALIFORNIA, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: GENETICS AND HEREDITY; RESEARCH GENES & CHROMOSOMES (91%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENOMICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTEOMICS (70%); BACTERIA (66%); CREATIONISM (51%); 

PERSON: BALTIMORE, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



636 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Votes in Congress

 BODY:
Tally Last Week in Connecticut, New Jersey and New York.
 
Senate
 
1. Hate Crimes: Vote on an amendment to a defense authorization bill that would expand federal jurisdiction for crimes based on race, religion and national origin, and would add sex and handicapped status to the categories covered, as well as sexual orientation. Approved 57 to 42, June 20. 

2. Cuban Embargo: Vote to kill an amendment to a defense authorization bill that would create a commission to study the effectiveness of the American economic embargo against Cuba. Approved 59 to 41, June 20.
 
3. Aid to Colombian Military: Vote to kill an amendment to a foreign aid bill that would transfer $225 million in aid from the Colombian military to drug treatment and prevention programs in the United States. Approved 89 to 11, June 21.
 
4. Aid to Colombian Military: Vote on an amendment to a foreign aid bill that would cut the aid package for the Colombian military to $200 million, from $934 million. Rejected 79 to 19, June 21.
 
5. Workplace Injuries: Vote on an amendment to a spending bill for the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services that would delay by one year federal regulations requiring employers to take steps to prevent repetitive motion injuries. Rejected 57 to 41, June 22.
 
6. Prescription Drugs: Vote on a amendment to a spending bill for the Departments of Labor and Health and Human Services that would lower drug prices for Medicare beneficiaries. Rejected 53 to 44, June 22.

	 	 	 	 	 	 		1	2	3	4	5	6	Connecticut	 	 	 	 	 	 	Dodd (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	Nay	Nay	Yea	Lieberman (D)	Yea	Yea	Yea	Nay	Nay	Yea	New Jersey	 	 	 	 	 	 	Lautenberg (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	Nay	Nay	Yea	New Jersey (cont'd)	 	 	 	 	 	 	Torricelli (D)	Yea	Yea	Yea	Nay	Nay	Yea	New York	 	 	 	 	 	 	Moynihan (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	Nay	Nay	Yea	Schumer (D)	Yea	Nay	Yea	Nay	Nay	Yea	
House
 
1. Tobacco: Vote on an amendment to a spending bill for the Department of Veterans Affairs that would block the department's plans to give the Justice Department $4 million to help pay for the federal lawsuit against the tobacco industry. Approved 207 to 197, June 19. The following day, the House reversed itself and by voice vote approved the transfer.
 
2. Tobacco: Vote on an amendment to a bill financing the Departments of Commerce, State and Justice that would let the Justice Department accept $12 million from other agencies to pay for the lawsuit against the tobacco industry. Approved 215 to 183, June 23.

	 	 		1	2	Connecticut	 	 	1. Larson (D)	Yea	Yea	2. Gejdenson (D)	Yea	Yea	3. DeLauro (D)	Yea	Yea	4. Shays (R)	Yea	Yea	5. Maloney (D)	Nay	Yea	6. Johnson (R)	Yea	Yea	New Jersey	 	 	1. Andrews (D)	Yea	Yea	2. LoBiondo (R)	Yea	Yea	3. Saxton (R)	Yea	Yea	4. Smith (R)	Yea	Yea	5. Roukema (R)	Yea	Yea	6. Pallone (D)	Yea	Yea	7. Franks (R)	Yea	Yea	8. Pascrell (D)	Yea	Yea	9. Rothman (D)	A	A	10. Payne (D)	A	Yea	11. Frelinghuysen (R)	Nay	Yea	12. Holt (D)	Yea	Yea	13. Menendez (D)	Yea	Yea	New York	 	 	1. Forbes (D)	Nay	Nay	2. Lazio (R)	Yea	A	3. King (R)	Yea	Yea	4. McCarthy (D)	Yea	Yea	5. Ackerman (D)	Yea	Yea	6. Meeks (D)	Yea	Yea	7. Crowley (D)	Yea	Yea	8. Nadler (D)	Yea	Yea	9. Weiner (D)	A	Yea	10. Towns (D)	Yea	A	11. Owens (D)	A	Yea	12. Velazquez (D)	Yea	Yea	13. Fossella (R)	Nay	Nay	14. Maloney (D)	Yea	Yea	15. Rangel (D)	Yea	A	16. Serrano (D)	Yea	Yea	17. Engel (D)	A	Yea	18. Lowey (D)	Yea	Yea	19. Kelly (R)	Nay	Yea	20. Gilman (R)	Yea	Yea	21. McNulty (D)	Yea	Yea	22. Sweeney (R)	Nay	Nay	23. Boehlert (R)	Nay	Yea	24. McHugh (R)	Nay	Yea	25. Walsh (R)	Nay	Yea	26. Hinchey (D)	Yea	Yea	27. Reynolds (R)	Nay	Nay	28. Slaughter (D)	Yea	Yea	29. LaFalce (D)	Yea	Yea	30. Quinn (R)	Nay	Yea	31. Houghton (R)	Nay	Nay	
KEY: (A) Absent or did not vote; (P) Present. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR&HEALTH&HUMAN SERVICES (75%); MEDICARE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); COLOMBIA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LEGISLATION (90%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HATE CRIME (90%); APPROPRIATIONS (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); JURISDICTION (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CRIME PREVENTION (78%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (78%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (77%); APPROVALS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (74%); OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS & INJURY (72%); MEDICARE (72%); RELIGION (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (69%); DRUG PRICES (69%); REPETITIVE MOTION DISORDERS (69%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (67%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); 

PERSON: JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



637 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Our Towns;
One Community's Lawbreakers Are Another's Growth Industry

BYLINE: By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: ROMULUS, N.Y.

 BODY:
FROM his front porch, Ray Zajac can hear the inmates' voices rising through the double set of glistening razor-wire fences across Main Street. The late afternoon chanting of men exercising in the drug treatment center is money to his ears.
"The city is subsidizing us by producing these criminals," said Mr. Zajac, meaning New York City. "It's not a nice thing to say, but it's true." 
 That subsidy is about to soar. Once the state's Five Points prison opens here in August, Romulus will be home to 3,200 free-ranging souls and 2,200 inmates. The free-rangers aren't complaining.
"It's a salvation to us," said Mr. Zajac, who has run this Finger Lakes town as the elected supervisor for 29 years.
Romulus is a village saved by prisons.
The state psychiatric hospital on Main Street closed in 1995, but reopened as the Department of Correctional Services' Willard Drug Treatment Campus. The 11,000-acre Seneca Army Depot began closing that same year, but the state came through with the $180 million prison now being completed on a secluded corner of the base.
"It's the largest construction project ever in the Finger Lakes," said Michael F. Nozzolio, the local state senator and chairman of the Senate's corrections committee, who brought home this juicy morsel of bacon. Beyond the projected 638 full-time jobs and 191 spinoff jobs, the prison will also rescue Romulus from its own sewage.
Waste water from about 200 homes near the prison site and Romulus's only school ran through the Army's system for decades. With the Army leaving, the hamlet would need a new system, which it could not afford. But the prison's water and sewer system will serve the town, as well, and pay the local sewer district, which will run it, an estimated $2 million a year, said the district's administrator, the same Ray Zajac.
"It's a big business, crime is," he said.
Political, too. Sentiment is growing in New York State to rethink drug laws that have helped push the prison population over 71,000, and last week the state's chief judge announced an effort to send more addicts to treatment rather than jail. But the Legislature ended its session Friday with no action on proposals to ease the state's harshest drug statutes, the Rockefeller-era laws that mandate minimum sentences of 15 years to life for possession or sale of small amounts of drugs -- stiffer sentences than the minimums for rape or manslaughter. Fear of appearing weak on crime overcame political will.
The inaction in Albany and the construction activity here, 160 miles west, demonstrate that there is just one safe political course when it comes to sentencing wrongdoers: put the pedal to the metal.
But don't blame Romulus.
ASIDE from some better-off folks with houses on serene Seneca Lake, Romulus is a collection of three tattered hamlets that largely lived off the state mental hospital and the cold war threat of global conflict that kept the World War II Army depot alive until the Berlin Wall fell. The world has changed, and now Romulus will have a drug treatment center, a maximum security prison and a nonprofit center for troubled youths that Gov. George E. Pataki helped inaugurate on Wednesday.
"We're going from government to government," said Dennis Aloia, the Seneca County manager. "When you're a hungry area, like this place is, you're willing to accept things other places aren't."
Prisons are bonanzas in depressed areas, and Glenn R. Cooke, Seneca County's development director, calls Senator Nozzolio "our rainmaker." The senator has six prisons in his district, and the public policy group City Project says more than a third of the state's prisons are in the districts of three senators, Mr. Nozzolio included.
In Romulus, Sandy Lynd, the postmaster, is expecting business to skyrocket. Dianna LaPrade said the medical office where she works as a nurse had hired an additional doctor, anticipating an influx of prison employees. And she said the guard jobs, with good pay and benefits, will give grown children a reason to stay in town. "It's a nice touch," she said.
But if the world changes again and there is a move to reduce the nation's world-beating incarceration rate, it will cause economic upheaval for places like Romulus. Not that anyone is expecting, as Mr. Zajac said, "all the criminals to find the Lord" or for all the politicians to go soft.
"I think it's less likely that will happen," Mr. Zajac said, "than the Berlin Wall coming down."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FIVE POINTS TECHNOLOGY (57%); SENECA ARMY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENECA ARMY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROMULUS (NY); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRISONS AND PRISONERS; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC SUBSTANCE ABUSE FACILITIES (90%); PRISONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SENTENCING (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); CONSTRUCTION (87%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (77%); ALTERNATIVE SENTENCING (77%); DRUG POLICY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); SENTENCING GUIDELINES (75%); ARMIES (74%); MANSLAUGHTER (72%); SANITATION DISTRICTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); JUDGES (68%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE LAWS (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (50%); 

PERSON: PURDY, MATTHEW RAY ZAJAC (90%); MICHAEL F NOZZOLIO (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



638 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Sizes Up North Korea As a Partner In Business

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, June 24

 BODY:
With the easing of economic sanctions against North Korea by the Clinton administration this week, American corporations based here are beginning to assess business opportunities in a country that has been out of bounds for five decades.
North Korea, a country of 22 million people, many of them deprived of all but the most basic needs, represents an unknown world for American business, but one with prospects both large and small: businessmen here see the need for everything from large transportation and energy projects to modest consumer goods. 
 The president of the American Chamber of Commerce here, Jeffrey D. Jones, says that sketchy data indicate that North Koreans earn a wage of about $150 to $200 a month, much of it disposable income because the state provides housing and basic food. If these wage figures are correct, Mr. Jones said, they exceed disposable income in parts of post-Communist Eastern Europe. However, North Koreans who have fled to China in droves to escape famine have suggested that families are spending almost all their money on food.
And Mr. Jones warned that the process of opening up North Korea would be slow, in large part because of its government's wariness about contact with outsiders.
In a meeting with American business leaders, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright said, without giving specifics, that Washington was eager to encourage North Korea, one of the last outposts of strict Communist economy, to move into the international commercial system.
Businessmen said they envisioned North Korea developing credibility with major Western powers and then becoming eligible for funds from the World Bank and the Asian Development Bank.
This would lay the groundwork for major infrastructure projects, which in turn would attract basic chemical, petrochemical, plastics and paints industries.
Many analysts have predicted that the bare-bones North Korean economy, propped up lately by deliveries of food, fertilizer and fuel from South Korea, China, Japan and the United States, will collapse.
But some modest optimism has emerged, especially since the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, visited China last month. He was urged by his Chinese allies to follow them in opening up his economy and was taken around computer companies in Beijing.
Telecommunications, including mobile phones, which are becoming a promising investment sector in China, will take years to open up in North Korea, Mr. Jones said.
Only 4.9 percent of households are believed to have phones in North Korea, according to South Korean statistics.
A joint South-North economic committee was set up during the summit meeting of the two Korean leaders 10 days ago, and this panel is likely, in the beginning, to become the main conduit for business in the North.
Some South Korean companies already do such business, but Mr. Jones, a lawyer here, cautioned that of the four ventures with North Korea that he had been involved in, only one was still going.
Mr. Jones quoted the head of a major South Korean corporation as suggesting that there was no need for American businesses to fret about competition: as the South Korean had said, "If you are worried about a slice of the pie, there is no pie yet." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (70%); BEIJING, CHINA (72%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (72%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); FAMINE (78%); FAMILY (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (75%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (75%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (75%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (74%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); PETROCHEMICALS (68%); FERTILIZERS (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (51%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE KIM JONG IL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



639 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 32; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 3229 words

HEADLINE: Summary of Major Actions of the Legislature's 223rd Session

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 24

 BODY:
The 223rd session of the New York State Legislature roared to a close Friday, with a head-spinning succession of deals on major issues that made this the most productive session in recent memory.
The Senate, the Assembly and Gov. George E. Pataki agreed on a far-reaching package of gun controls, a major overhaul of the state's sexual assault laws and a law providing heavier penalties for hate crimes. On the final day of the session, they reached agreement on a law allowing patients to look up doctors' malpractice histories, a few days after striking a deal on a law requiring parental notification when pesticides are used in schools, and possible neighborhood notification when they are used on lawns. 
 It was a session marked early by feuding between Mr. Pataki and a fellow Republican, the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, that had some Republicans saying the governor was trying to overthrow the Senate leader. Later, it was the Democrats' turn to fight among themselves. The Assembly majority leader, Michael J. Bragman, attempted a coup against the speaker, Sheldon Silver, that failed and left the Democrats splintered and wary of each other.
But relations between the two parties -- particularly between Mr. Silver and Mr. Pataki -- were remarkably calm throughout, with little of the partisan carping, personal attacks and legislative paralysis that have marked the last several years.
The state budget was completed on May 5, just 35 days overdue, in the least contentious process since 1993, after years of budgets that ran two, three, even four months late. That averted the gridlock of previous years, when the focus on the overdue budget prevented work on other issues.
A persistent theme of the session was the Senate Republicans' moving further than ever to the left, fearful of their prospects in November. They only grudgingly accepted bills on gun control, hate crimes, pesticide notification and other subjects long embraced by the Assembly Democrats.
The Democrats gave ground on the sexual assault laws, but over all, won more big legislative victories than in any other year since Mr. Pataki became governor.
Lawmakers were unable to reach agreement on a few notable issues, including a bill that would have required legislative approval and a local referendum for a proposed Indian casino in the Catskills, and proposed rule changes for Republican presidential primaries.
In the Assembly, 9,938 bills were introduced and 1,036 were passed. In the Senate, 7,038 bills were introduced and 1,261 were passed. Some 681 bills passed both houses. Mr. Pataki has signed 94 of those.
 
Budget
The state, continuing to enjoy the bounty of the economic boom, is awash in tax revenues that allowed a significant increase in spending and sizable tax cuts at the same time. Lawmakers approved a $77.5 billion budget, up 5.7 percent from the year before, with tax cuts that will eventually be worth $1.2 billion a year.
They increased spending on education by 8.7 percent, to more than $13 billion, including continued expansion of the two-year-old program to provide prekindergarten classes for 4-year-olds and smaller class sizes in the early grades.
The largess extended to college students, who saw state tuition assistance increase significantly, and to the elderly, who saw a doubling of the state program to help the low-income elderly pay for prescription drugs.
Medicaid, the largest part of the budget at $29 billion and the spending area that had generated the most pitched battles since Mr. Pataki became governor, was never an issue. As part of a deal reached in December on health coverage for the uninsured, the governor agreed that for the first time he would not try to cut Medicaid, the health care program for the poor.
At the governor's insistence, the budget included the first limits ever placed on New York's state debt, the highest in the nation. The ceilings will go into effect gradually over more than a decade, but they were welcomed by Wall Street rating agencies. The budget also greatly increased the size of the state's various reserve funds, to more than $3 billion.
At the same time, Mr. Pataki and the Legislature agreed to put a $3.8 billion bond act before voters in November to help pay for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's capital program and improvements to the state's roads and bridges.

Crime and Justice
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Decriminalizes the possession and sale of hypodermic needles without a doctor's prescription.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would ban assault weapons, mirroring the federal ban, and allow local prosecutors to enforce the law.
Would require the inclusion of trigger locks with all new handguns sold.
Would require that new handguns be test-fired before sale so they could be entered into a "ballistic fingerprint" database for all guns used in crimes, for comparison later with bullets and shell casings found at crime scenes.
Would require background checks of gun buyers at gun shows, even when the seller was a private citizen, not a gun dealer.
Would raise the minimum age for obtaining a handgun permit and buying a handgun to 21 from 18.
Would explicitly apply the crimes of rape and sodomy to cases of date rape and acquaintance rape.
Would increase penalties for sale or use of date rape drugs.
Would create a sex crime of forcible touching, with more severe penalties than have been possible.
Would raise the maximum age of victims for cases of statutory rape to 15 from 14, and would raise the maximum age of victims for cases carrying the most severe penalties to 13 from 11.
Would increase penalties for repeat sex offenders and for people who committed sex crimes against mentally disabled people.
Would abolish laws that prevented prosecution of sex crimes when the victim was the attacker's spouse.
Would prohibit the granting of bail for people accused of serious sex crimes against minors.
Would eliminate the requirement that sex crime victims report the crimes to the police immediately to qualify for services provided by the State Crime Victims Board. The victims would become eligible for coverage of hospital treatment, counseling, lost wages and damaged or stolen property.
Would require state financing of rape crisis centers.
Would provide longer prison sentences for certain crimes when the victim was singled out because of bias based on race, religion, sex, sexual orientation, national origin or disability.
Would make the shipping of "bootleg" cigarettes into the state without paying state taxes, now a misdemeanor, a felony for repeat violators, and would impose fines for such violations up to $100 per carton.
Would prohibit the shipment of cigarettes by mail-order companies, including those selling through the Internet, directly to customers. Would require instead that the cigarettes be shipped to a licensed retailer, where the customer could pick them up, but would have to show proof of age and pay state taxes.
Would increase fines for sales of cigarettes to minors.
Would make people imprisoned for killing a spouse or partner eligible for work release if they could show they were victims of severe domestic violence.
Would make an assault by a teacher on a student, or an assault by a student on a teacher, a felony.
Would provide a mechanism for people to remove their names from the state registry of suspected child abusers if they could provide proof that they were innocent.
Would exempt mothers from criminal penalties for abandoning newborn babies if they left their babies in safe places like hospitals or police stations.
Would strengthen state laws against money laundering, including broadening them to cover wire transfers.
Would require bounty hunters to complete a training course and to notify local law enforcement when working in a particular area, and would make them liable for injuries and property damage they caused.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have allowed prosecutors to appeal bail settings and sentences in sex crime cases.
Would have banned "canned hunting," the practice of shooting captive animals on private reserves.
Would have streamlined the state's multilayered court system.
Would have created 36 Criminal Court and Family Court judgeships in New York City to ease overcrowding.
Would have lowered the blood-alcohol threshold for drunken driving charges to 0.08 from 0.10.

Business and Labor
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Sets the minimum wage for hotel and restaurant workers who earn tips at $3.30 an hour. The minimum wage had been slated, under a law passed last year, to rise to $3.52 from $2.90.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would require legislative approval for any casino established by an Indian tribe outside its reservation.
Would require that by July 1, 2003, all cigarettes sold in New York meet fire-safety standards.
Would subject herbal cigarettes to the same regulation as tobacco cigarettes, including banning sales to minors.
Would restrict to tobacco shops the sale of bidis, cigarettes from India that are considered more unhealthy than ordinary cigarettes.
Would ban tobacco ads visible outdoors near schools, day care centers, playgrounds and other places where children congregate.
Would provide automatic annual cost-of-living increases for retired public employees.
Would free public employees from having to make contributions to their pensions after 10 years of employment.
Would allow the expansion of the New York Stock Exchange to proceed by authorizing New York City's Industrial Development Authority to sell $255 million in bonds for the project, and by authorizing the state's Empire State Development Corporation to condemn and acquire property across the street from the current exchange.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have raised the state minimum wage for most categories of workers to $6.75 an hour from $5.15.
Would have banned self-service display cases of cigarettes, requiring that a buyer ask a sales clerk for them.
Would have given farm workers the same protections given to most classes of workers, including a higher minimum wage and rules on working conditions.
Would have required nonsmoking areas in most restaurants.

Environment and Energy
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Prohibits companies that have earned pollution credits by reducing their air emissions from trading or selling those credits to companies in Midwestern states that are contributors to acid rain in New York.
Phases out use of MTBE's, a group of gasoline additives that reduce air pollution but have been found to contribute to ground-water contamination.
Provides $250 million to subsidize purchases of electric power by companies that locate or expand in New York, or that pledge not to leave the state.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would allow counties and New York City to require that neighbors be given 48 hours' notice before commercial application of pesticide on a property, and would require that schools give notice of pesticide application to parents who have requested such notice.
Would require that the seller of a property give to the buyer written notice of any known toxic contamination of the property.
Would allow towns and villages to regulate the use of motorized water scooters, including banning them entirely.
Would impose air emission standards on motorized water scooters.
Would prohibit the Long Island Power Authority from charging large disconnection fees to customers who switch to fuel cells or to other alternative sources of electricity.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have spent more than $300 million a year to promote electric power conservation and use of cleaner fuels.
Would have refinanced the state's bankrupt Superfund program for cleaning up toxic waste sites, by imposing fees on industry and taking money out of the state treasury.
Would have created a clean-up program for brownfields, sites that are not polluted enough to qualify for the Superfund program, in which the state would do the work when property owners are unwilling or unable.

Education
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Provides incentives for people to become teachers, particularly in low-income communities, including grants of up to $3,400 a year to cover education costs for people who agree to teach in communities with teacher shortages; grants up to $2,000 per year to help teachers with temporary licenses cover the costs of achieving permanent certification; a teaching internship program for college students; and grants of up to $10,000 a year for up to three years for highly rated teachers who agree to switch to communities with teacher shortages.
Expands the state's tuition assistance program for college students by $141 million a year, by raising the maximum grant to $5,000 from $4,125 per year; raising the family income eligibility ceiling to $80,000 from $50,500; and eliminating a rule that a student's grant may not cover more than 90 percent of tuition.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would provide a wider range of investment options for the state's tax-sheltered college savings account program.
Would make it easier for teachers to remove disruptive students from their classrooms.
Would require school districts to fingerprint prospective employees and conduct background checks on them.
Would establish whistle-blower protections for school employees who report acts of violence in schools to the police.
Would prohibit the practice of "silent resignations," in which school employees accused of wrongdoing can resign and not have their actions reflected in the records forwarded to prospective new employers.

Taxes
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Eliminates the tax on utility bills for businesses and reduces it for residences to 2 percent from 3.25 percent, for a savings to businesses and taxpayers, when fully put in effect in five years, of $330 million a year.
Makes college tuition fully deductible from state personal income taxes, for a savings to taxpayers of $200 million a year.
Eliminates the "marriage penalty" in state income tax, in which married couples paid more than they would if they were single and filed separately, for a savings to taxpayers of $200 million a year.
Expands the earned income tax credit, a tax break for the working poor, for a savings to taxpayers of $125 million a year.
Eliminates some taxes for businesses that move to economically distressed areas, for a savings to businesses of $40 million a year.
Expands the tax credit for child care expenses, for a savings to taxpayers of $25 million a year.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have eliminated the state's 4 percent tax on gasoline and given counties the option of doing away with their 3 to 4 percent tax on gasoline.

Health Care
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Expands a program to subsidize prescription drug costs for people 65 or older, raising the income eligibility for a single person to $35,000 from $18,500, more than doubling the number of people eligible, to 220,000, at a cost to the state of $180 million a year.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would provide protection against retaliation for health care workers who reported suspected wrongdoing by their employers, including requiring investigation by the Department of Labor and providing fines for employers who punished whistle-blowers.
Would allow people to look up the malpractice records of doctors, including on the Internet.

 
LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have allowed disabled people to remain on Medicaid after obtaining jobs, while requiring that they pay a monthly premium.
Would have required health insurance companies to cover the cost of infertility treatments.

Consumer Affairs
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Extends the state's ban on ticket scalping for one year.
 
AWAITING SIGNATURE
 Would prohibit Consolidated Edison from passing on to customers costs related to a leak and subsequent shutdown at its Indian Point nuclear reactor.
Would prohibit telemarketers from gaining access to bank accounts and account information without written consent of consumers, and would require all telemarketers to be bonded and registered with the state.
Would allow people to put themselves on a list of people whom telemarketers would be prohibited from calling unsolicited.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have prohibited discrimination based on sexual orientation in employment, housing and several other areas.
Would have allowed tenants in rent-stabilized apartments to deduct from their state taxes the rent increases charged when landlords undertake major capital improvements.

Transportation
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
Places on the November ballot a $3.8 billion bond act for transportation projects.
Gives the Metropolitan Transportation Authority the authorization to sell $22 billion in bonds for its new capital program, including refinancing $12 billion in outstanding bonds from previous programs.
Creates the Southern Tier Rail Authority, to help provide rail service on an unused line across Steuben, Allegany, Cattaraugus and Chautauqua Counties.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would require that children under 16 wear seat belts when riding in the rear seats of cars, rather than children under age 10, as required now.

Welfare and Families
 
AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would allow student internships and work-study jobs held by college students on welfare to count toward work requirements under the welfare law.
Would raise to 18 from 16 the maximum age for a "person in need of supervision," a designation made by a judge that allows the court to order the youth to return home, attend school, undergo drug treatment or receive counseling.
Would require criminal background checks and fingerprinting for workers in licensed child care facilities.

Government and Ethics
 
LEGISLATION ENACTED
 Imposes limits on state debt, eventually restricting it to 4 percent of the annual personal income of state residents, down from more than 6 percent now.
Provides $180 million to help local governments cover the costs of Family Health Plus, a new program to assist low-income people in acquiring health insurance.
Provides $105 million in aid to Nassau County, in return for the county's making $260 million in budget cuts over the next four years, and provides that if those cuts are not made, the state can impose a financial control board on the county.
Creates the Nassau Interim Financing Authority to sell bonds on behalf of the county.
Raises the limit on New York City's debt by $4 billion.
Provides $45 million in emergency aid to the Buffalo schools.
Provides $10 million in emergency aid to the Yonkers schools.

AWAITING SIGNATURE
Would revise the State Constitution to make the language gender-neutral.

LEGISLATION FAILED
Would have changed the rules for Republican presidential primaries in New York to make it virtually automatic for well-known candidates to get on the ballot, and to simplify the ballot itself.
Would have banned largely unregulated "soft money" campaign contributions and imposed new, lower limits on contributions made directly to candidates and parties.
Would have provided for public financing of campaigns.
Would have required that the Assembly and the Senate convene a conference committee to work out their differences when both houses pass bills that are substantially similar.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Assembly members Robin L. Schimminger of Erie County, left, Keith L. Wright of New York and James Gary Pretlow of Mount Vernon, all Democrats, awaited bills coming to the floor for votes as the State Legislature ended its session last week. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (51%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE LEGISLATURE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE LEGISLATURE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (51%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LAW AND LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); GUN CONTROL (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (74%); COUPS (73%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (70%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (68%); REFERENDUMS (50%); CASINOS (50%); 

PERSON: PEREZ-PENA, RICHARD EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (58%); EDDIE GEORGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



640 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 596 words

HEADLINE: FOLLOWING UP

BYLINE: By TINA KELLEY

 BODY:

Jilted Hospital Suing Doctor on the Move
The case of Dr. Andrew Wiznia, a pediatric AIDS specialist formerly with Bronx-Lebanon Hospital Center, now with Jacobi Medical Center, is proceeding through the state courts. At issue: how a doctor should notify patients when changing hospitals, and whether the hospital left behind can claim damages for lost grant money and patients.
Dr. Wiznia, who had worked in a Bronx-Lebanon clinic treating 180 children with H.I.V. and 250 healthy children born to H.I.V.-infected parents, moved to Jacobi in April 1999, though Bronx-Lebanon had tried unsuccessfully to keep him from seeing patients at Jacobi for six months. 
 Bronx-Lebanon also said Dr. Wiznia used its records illegally in writing his patients of the move, and left them little choice but to go with him. Dr. Wiznia said he had followed standard procedure in notifying the patients, using his own records to get their addresses. The court ruled against him in December, but he is appealing.
Bronx-Lebanon also charged that he had applied to transfer a federal grant supporting the unit from Bronx-Lebanon, a private hospital, to Jacobi, a public one, while still on Bronx-Lebanon's payroll.
Dr. Wiznia acknowledged that he applied for the grant for Jacobi before he told Bronx-Lebanon he would be leaving, but he said Bronx-Lebanon's permission was required before the grant could be moved.
Francis Carling, the lawyer for Bronx-Lebanon, countered that Dr. Wiznia left it no time to apply for grants on its own. The hospital said that because it permanently lost grants and patients, it is also suing him and his partners for damages. Dr. Wiznia said that no damages were incurred because a hospital cannot profit from research grants or Medicaid patients.

Shifting Battleground For Small Harlem Stores
When a white-owned clothing store in Harlem refused to renew the sublease of a popular black-owned record store in 1995, Morris Powell was at the forefront of protests as head of the 125th Street Vendors Association. The battle ended tragically. As the angry demonstrations dragged on, a man walked into the store, Freddy's clothing, began shooting and set a fire that killed seven workers and himself.
Today, Mr. Powell's concerns echo his protests five years ago but reflect a changing Harlem. With a group called the Diallo Coalition, named for the unarmed black man killed by the police, Mr. Powell has distributed leaflets outside Harlem USA, the new mall on 125th Street that includes Disney, Old Navy and HMV.
He and others are concerned by the city's recent attempts to evict Mart 125, where dozens of small businesses operate on city-owned property. There is fear that the national chains, and the rent increases that come with them, will keep smaller vendors from enjoying the economic boom that is reaching 125th Street.
"We still have them under boycott," Mr. Powell said of Harlem USA. "Our community is overwhelmingly run by other people, of not the same race, and it's unfair, to say the least."
Bill Perkins, the councilman for central and east Harlem, said he disagreed with the city's desire to lease the property to the highest bidder.
Mart 125 is fighting the eviction in court, he said.
"Why can't Harlemites, small entrepreneurs who were here during the lean times, take advantage of the better times?" Mr. Perkins asked. "The so-called gentrification or whatever that people to some extent welcome can be a double-edged sword, reflected in the struggle that merchants at Mart 125 are having." TINA KELLEY
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: LEBANON (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: JACOBI MEDICAL CENTER (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JACOBI MEDICAL CENTER (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LEBANON (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. HOSPITALS (90%); PEDIATRICS (90%); GRANTS & GIFTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (86%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (85%); RETAILERS (85%); MEDICAID (78%); LITIGATION (78%); AIDS & HIV (78%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (78%); EVICTION (77%); LAWYERS (75%); MUSIC STORES (74%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (71%); FIRES (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (67%); RENTAL PROPERTY (66%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (62%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (60%); 

PERSON: ANDREW WIZNIA (93%); MORRIS POWELL (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



641 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 14; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1272 words

HEADLINE: Candidates Courting Hispanic Vote

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY 

DATELINE: DENVER, June 24

 BODY:
"Yo quiero mucho," Vice President Al Gore roared in a campaign speech here on Thursday night before the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials, assuring its members that he loved them very much.
For many Hispanic Americans, especially those eager to vote in this year's presidential election, Mr. Gore and his probable Republican opponent, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, have turned the campaign into a virtual love-fest. Describing themselves as the "soccer moms" of the 2000 elections, Hispanic voters say they have never been courted so aggressively by presidential candidates, giving Hispanics electoral leverage they never had before. 
 And most of the seminars at the association's annual conference here this week were designed to expand the power in the future.
"All of a sudden, we're hot," said Victor Hernandez, a member of the Lubbock, Tex., city council. "The parties see us as an opportunity but also a potential threat. They know they have to deal with us, and they know it's better to deal with us as an ally rather than a foe."
The amorous turn, a more profound difference in Republican strategy than in Democratic, evolves directly from demographic shifts: Hispanics are now the fastest growing bloc of ethnic voters. The changes are especially significant in the nine states with the largest Hispanic populations. Led by California, New York and Texas, they account for 202 electoral votes -- or 75 percent of the 270 needed to win the White House.
An analysis by the Latino group commonly known as Naleo (Na-LAY-o) predicts that the Hispanic share of the 2000 presidential vote will rise to 5.4 percent from 4.7 percent in 1996, giving Latino voters the power to influence an otherwise close election, particularly in several important states, including California and Florida.
But even if one presidential candidate wins by a wide margin this year, Latino advocates were taking no chances for the future. With seminars this week like "Developing your stump speech," "Working with your party" and "Coordinating with issue constituencies," Naleo officials taught their members how to get more Hispanics into the elective pipeline to make Hispanic voters even more powerful beyond 2000.
Panel moderators included specialists on issues that Hispanic voters consistently cite as most important to them -- public education, health care and economic development -- as well as political strategists from both major parties.
Arturo Vargas, the Naleo executive director, said about 5,100 Hispanics hold elective office around the country but half of them as members of local school boards, making for a relatively flat triangle of success. Over the last 10 years, the number of Hispanics in Congress has risen to 19 from 11; the number of state lawmakers has increased to 189 from 135; and seven Hispanics hold statewide offices.
But with the nation's Hispanic population increasing, to 31.8 million by last year from 22.4 million in 1990, according to the Census Bureau, and an analysis by the association of turnout in 1992 and 1996 suggesting that more Latinos are voting while other groups are voting less often, Mr. Vargas said the number of Hispanic elected officials was certain to rise. As a result, Naleo officials have made sharing political advice and counsel the thrust of their conference in this, an election year.
"We want to focus attention on November and the role Latinos will play in the election," he said, reflecting on the mission of the three-day conference. "But we also want to stress professional development. We want people to leave here with new information so they can do better at their jobs in the future with strategies to win. Someplace soon, we want to have a future governor and a U.S. senator."
Judging by their campaign efforts this year, Mr. Bush and Mr. Gore recognize the importance of winning the Hispanic vote. That is not necessarily a new strategy for Democrats, but it is for Republicans. And many Republican Party leaders say that with Mr. Bush, whose state has a significant Latino population, they have the right candidate to expand their base, even though aides said a scheduling conflict prevented him from attending the Naleo conference.
While Hispanic voters have traditionally supported Democratic candidates, they have shown a new open-mindedness in recent elections toward Republicans. By some estimates, Mr. Bush won as much as 47 percent of the Hispanic vote in his re-election as governor in 1998. The same year, Tony Garza, a Republican, won election as Texas Railroad Commissioner, a powerful position overseeing oil, gas and public utilities.
Californians elected three Hispanic Republicans to the state legislature in 1998, even as Gray Davis, a Democrat, won the governor's race, a result that reflected, at least among Hispanics, a repudiation of the policies of his predecessor, Pete Wilson, who opposed social services for immigrants, affirmative action and bilingual education in public schools.
Like the vice president, Mr. Bush often uses Spanish in speaking to Latino crowds, boasting that his policies in Texas have been good for Hispanics. Also, he often reminds Latino voters of his sister-in-law's heritage: Columba Bush, who is married to his brother, Gov. Jeb Bush of Florida, was born in Mexico, and their 24-year-old son, George P. Bush, who speaks fluent Spanish, has become an active campaigner for his uncle.
In addition, many Hispanics complain that Democratic candidates, recognizing the historic gap between Hispanics and Republicans, take the Hispanic vote for granted.
"Bush is uniquely positioned with a proven record of winning Hispanic votes," said Michael Madrid, a Republican political consultant who led the seminar on stump speeches. He said that Mr. Bush's attractiveness to Hispanic voters "is as much the messenger as the message."
Republicans still appear to have some distance to cover before they capture a majority of the Hispanic vote in any big state. As Mr. Vargas pointed out, only in the last few years have Republicans paid much attention to Hispanic voters, compared with President Clinton and Mr. Gore, who made them a priority in the last two elections. President Bush won only 19 percent of the Hispanic vote in 1992, Mr. Madrid said, and Senator Bob Dole fared worse four years later, with 13 percent.
"It's not been for lack of trying," Gov. Bill Owens of Colorado said on Friday, addressing problems Republicans have had connecting with Hispanics. "We had it under President Reagan, but for all the assets Bob Dole had, he was not a warm-and-fuzzy guy. He didn't have the ability to connect. George Bush does. He'll be very competitive with Hispanics this year."
Despite recent progress by Republicans, they still encounter problems. For example, in New Mexico, where Latinos account for a third of the vote and four Hispanics (all Democrats) hold statewide offices, the state Republican Party has included only two Hispanics among its 21-member delegation to the national convention in August.
And here, Mr. Vargas said, Mr. Bush's absence "sends a message that speaks for itself." Mr. Bush was represented at a luncheon on Friday by Mr. Owens and one of his Colorado cabinet members, Larry E. Trujillo, who recently switched from Democrat to Republican.
As for the future, Mr. Hernandez, the Lubbock city official, said it would be a mistake for either party to take Hispanics lightly. "We no longer want a piece of the pie," he said, referring to their growing political might. "We want to be in the kitchen, deciding what kind of pie to make."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Elena Rios, the president of the National Hispanic Medical Association, discussed internship opportunities in Washington with students after speaking at a conference of Latino officials in Denver on Friday. (Ernie Leyba for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LUBBOCK, TX, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (58%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF LATINO ELECTED & APPOINTED OFFICIALS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF LATINO ELECTED & APPOINTED OFFICIALS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LUBBOCK, TX, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; HISPANIC-AMERICANS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (92%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (78%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); CITIES (53%); 

PERSON: JANOFSKY, MICHAEL; GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV) AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



642 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: CLINTON PROPOSING MUCH LARGER PLAN FOR DRUG BENEFITS

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
President Clinton announced a major change in his proposal for Medicare drug benefits today, making it much more generous to millions of elderly people and much more costly to the federal government.
The new proposal came four days before the House of Representatives is scheduled to vote on a Republican proposal to offer drug benefits, through private insurance companies, to all 39 million people on Medicare. 
 Mr. Clinton said his revised proposal would cost $79 billion over five years, or more than twice as much as the $38 billion proposal he sent Congress as part of his budget request in February. The House Republican plan would cost nearly $40 billion over five years.
In his weekly radio address today, Mr. Clinton said he was "deeply concerned" about the proposal drafted by House Republicans.
"What they have proposed is not a Medicare benefit," Mr. Clinton said. "It's a private insurance program which many seniors and people with disabilities simply won't be able to afford."
Mr. Clinton said he wanted to use surplus tax dollars to ensure that no older American would have to pay more than $4,000 a year in drug costs.
The president said he would submit his new proposal to Congress in the next few days. Congress, controlled by Republicans, is unlikely to approve it right away. But experience suggests that Mr. Clinton's proposal could influence Congress and nudge it in the direction he wants to go as the legislative process unfolds under the political pressures of this election year.
Mr. Clinton said his plan "would be affordable and dependable, and give every senior equal coverage."
But in the Republican response, Representative Nancy L. Johnson of Connecticut said the House Republican plan was better.
"We provide a choice of at least two plans for seniors," Mrs. Johnson said. "Under the president's approach, our seniors would have only one choice. The government would mandate a one-size-fits-all plan, and a senior would just have to take it or leave it."
The cost of the president's proposal has soared in the last year, as he offered richer benefits and more realistic cost estimates. When he unveiled his initial plan in June 1999, he said it would cost $118 billion over 10 years. In February, he put the 10-year cost at $195 billion: $160 billion for basic drug coverage, plus $35 billion to help people with very high drug expenses.
Today, Mr. Clinton offered what he described as an improved version of his proposal, which he said would cost $253 billion over 10 years. That is more than twice the cost estimate for his original proposal.
The White House said the more generous drug benefits were possible because a booming economy had produced a gusher of federal revenue, increasing projections of the budget surplus in the next decade.
The House Republican proposal was approved on a party-line vote in the Ways and Means Committee on Wednesday. It would use almost all of the $40 billion allowed for drug benefits in the five-year budget blueprint that Congress adopted in April.
Today, a White House official said the administration did not "feel in any way constrained" by the $40 billion figure. Under House rules, it would not be in order to consider a bill that increased Medicare spending by more than that amount.
White House officials said they hoped that the House Rules Committee would allow an exception to the rules, so Democrats could offer an alternative costing $100 billion over five years. The Democratic proposal, besides providing $79 billion worth of drug benefits to the elderly, would increase Medicare payments to hospitals and other health care providers by $21 billion over five years.
Republicans said they agreed on the need to assist health care providers and would offer a separate bill later this year, to restore some of the Medicare money cut in 1997.
Under Mr. Clinton's original proposal, the government would have paid half of the first $2,000 in drug expenses incurred by a Medicare beneficiary, starting in 2003. Under the new proposal, benefits would start a year earlier, in 2002. "Seniors and people with disabilities need prescription drug coverage as soon as possible," the White House said.
Mr. Clinton specified today, for the first time, how he would protect elderly people who have high prescription drug expenses. Under his proposal, no Medicare beneficiary would have to spend more than $4,000 a year on prescription drugs. Medicare would pay all costs beyond that.
In February, Mr. Clinton said he wanted to provide some type of "protection against catastrophic drug costs," starting in 2006, but he gave no details. Today, he fleshed out his proposal and said he wanted to start the extra coverage in 2002, along with the basic benefits.
Under his proposal, Mr. Clinton said today, Medicare beneficiaries would not have to pay anything extra for catastrophic coverage. Premiums for the enhanced benefits would be the same as the premiums he specified in February just for basic drug coverage: $25 a month in 2002, rising to about $50 in 2009.
Under the House Republican plan, the government would pay subsidies to insurance companies to encourage them to sell insurance covering the drug costs of Medicare beneficiaries. Premiums and benefits could vary from one plan to another. Under a typical policy, the beneficiary would pay premiums of $37 a month and a deductible of $250 a year. The insurance policy would pay half of the next $2,100 in drug costs, and the beneficiary's out-of-pocket costs would be limited to $6,000 a year.
Mr. Clinton also proposed today to pay health maintenance organizations to provide prescription drugs to Medicare beneficiaries, starting in 2001. About 6 million of the 39 million Medicare recipients, or 16 percent, are in H.M.O.'s. Most of the health plans offer drug benefits, but Medicare does not require such benefits, nor does it explicitly pay for them.
White House officials said they hoped that the prospect of such federal subsidies, $25 billion over 5 years and $75 billion over 10 years, would encourage health plans to participate in Medicare. In the last two years, many H.M.O.'s have withdrawn from Medicare or curtailed their participation, saying federal payments were inadequate. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); AGED; HEALTH INSURANCE MEDICARE (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); AGING (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INSURANCE (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); APPROVALS (73%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (71%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



643 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: Fight Over Prescription Drug Benefits for Elderly Creates Unlikely Enemies

BYLINE: By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 24

 BODY:
The struggle over prescription drug benefits for the elderly, now center stage in the House, is not simply between Democrats and Republicans, liberals and conservatives. It has also driven a wedge between two of the biggest, most influential lobbies in Washington: the Health Insurance Association of America and the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America.
For months now, the pharmaceutical industry has been arguing -- on Capitol Hill and beyond, in an intensive advertising campaign -- that any new prescription drug benefit for the elderly must be provided through the private sector, not the traditional Medicare program. 
 Critics say the industry fears that direct government involvement will inevitably mean government pressure on drug industry prices -- and profits. The pharmaceutical association asserts, as it said in one recent advertisement, that "a government-run prescription drug plan" and "government controls" on prices would hurt the industry, slow research and ultimately harm patients.
That philosophy, which fits neatly with the Republican desire for less government and more private market forces in the Medicare program, is at the heart of the prescription drug bill that the Ways and Means Committee passed Wednesday night, which may hit the House floor next week. The Republican bill would use government subsidies to encourage private companies to offer drug policies to the elderly. Medicare does not cover outpatient prescription drugs, and about a third of the elderly have no drug coverage at all.
But there has been a persistent voice of resistance from the insurance industry, ordinarily a strong ally of the Republican Party. Officials of the Health Insurance Association of America have been warning that the private-sector solution being debated would be difficult to achieve. Even with federal subsidies, insurance officials have warned, private companies would have a hard time offering an affordable product and making a profit in a market where drug prices keep rising and the sickest elderly people -- the heaviest users of prescription drugs -- are most likely to buy the coverage.
As Charles N. Kahn III, president of the group, testified before a House committee earlier this month, "We do not believe that private drug-only insurance is a viable concept given the substantial economic and regulatory barriers and problems with adverse selection that would face such a product."
This tension between two industry giants, like the fierce partisan warfare, is one more hurdle in the way of passing prescription drug legislation this year. The debate has bubbled throughout the spring, much to the annoyance of Republican leaders who have been scrambling to find a consensus on prescription drug coverage, considered one of the most powerful issues of this election year.
"We've been trying to find something that gets through the House," said John P. Feehery, a spokesman for Speaker J. Dennis Hastert. "Obviously, some aspects of the insurance industry aren't that excited about it, but we're trying to get something that will help seniors."
Neither industry group has officially taken a position on the Republican bill, but their disagreement is widely known and infuses the larger, more partisan debate. Democrats and their allies say the insurance industry's resistance proves that the Republican bill is not a realistic effort to meet the needs of the elderly.
"This really shows the G.O.P. drug plan to be a mirage," said Ronald F. Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a health care advocacy group. "It looks good from a distance, but there's very little there. Notwithstanding the fact that the G.O.P. bill would provide huge subsidies to insurance companies, the insurance companies are still saying, 'We're not going to offer these policies.' "
President Clinton, who has a drug proposal of his own and is a sharp critic of the House Republicans' plan, has noted the insurance industry's criticism on several occasions. Mr. Clinton has spent much of his administration at odds with the health insurers association, most notably when the group ran the legendary "Harry and Louise" advertisements attacking his proposal for national health insurance.
Chris Jennings, the deputy assistant to the president for health policy, said, "When the advocates of Harry and Louise and the president agree on something, people say there must be something to this."
The larger Democratic critique of the Republican plan, as voiced by many people this week, is that the obvious solution to the lack of a drug benefit in Medicare is to add a drug benefit to Medicare -- rather than, as Mr. Pollack puts it, "contorting yourself" to find private-sector mechanisms that the private sector itself has doubts about. As Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, the House Democratic leader, put it, "Republicans want to basically privatize this benefit, as they've always wanted to privatize Medicare."
Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, argued that the last major effort to open Medicare to more private insurance involvement, Medicare+Choice, "by anyone's analysis has not worked." He was referring to the fact that many Medicare beneficiaries in recent years have signed with private health maintenance organizations, rather than the traditional Medicare program, only to see their H.M.O.'s pull out of the Medicare market because they found it unprofitable.
Republicans counter that their plan would give the nation's elderly more choices in drug plans; they note that it guarantees every Medicare beneficiary a choice of at least two plans, and would also provide for a federal fallback plan if private insurers do not offer coverage in a particular area.
And while the Health Insurance Association of America -- whose members include the biggest health insurers and provide benefits to 123 million Americans over all -- may be resisting this new market, Republican leaders note that others are not. Representative Bill Thomas of California, the chairman of the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health and the prime mover on this bill, noted this week that a leading drug benefit manager, Merck-Medco Managed Care, had said it would "work to develop a prescription-drug-only plan that we could offer nationwide in competition with others in what we expect will be a highly competitive market."
"The fact of the matter is, if you build it, they will come," said Mr. Feehery, the House speaker's aide. The legislation, he added, "will create a huge pot of money that the private market will want to get involved in. The fact is, this is a great benefit for seniors and we've already had some movement from the private sector that they will be interested in it."
Judith H. Bello, executive vice president of the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, said in her testimony on June 13 that she was certain the private marketplace could produce drug benefits for the elderly, since it had already produced private insurance policies for "cancer, sports accidents, emergency room visits, pregnancy complications and campers."
After the Republican bill passed the Ways and Means Committee Wednesday, on a strict party-line vote, Mr. Kahn said he had no comment "on the bill right now." Asked if he would lobby against the bill when it hits the floor next week, he again declined to comment. But the dispute clearly puts him in an awkward position, politically and, perhaps, personally. Before assuming the presidency of the health insurance association, Mr. Kahn was staff director for the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health.
As for the pharmaceutical association, its critics assert that it is so panic-stricken over the prospect of the government cutting into its profits that industry lobbying will only intensify. Even if, as many expect, nothing is enacted this year to provide prescription drug coverage to the elderly, the issue will only return in the new administration and Congress of 2001.
"There's so much money being thrown around on this issue that it's really hard to track," said Holly Bailey, a researcher at the Center for Responsive Politics. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSN OF AMERICA; PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (63%); PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (84%); HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH INSURANCE ASSN OF AMERICA; PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (84%); HEALTH INSURANCE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); HEALTH INSURANCE; MEDICARE; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; AGED; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); MEDICARE (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); AGING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY (90%); LOBBYING (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); CHEMICALS RESEARCH (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); INSURANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (89%); DRUG PRICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (78%); DRUG POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (76%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); 

PERSON: TONER, ROBIN JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



644 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: A Cleaner, Safer Project Celebrates Its Birthday

BYLINE: By SHERRI DAY 

 BODY:
Roxanna Hutchinson has lived in the same building for 40 years, and even if she could move, she would not. This, she says, is her home.
"A lot of people say they don't like it, but I love it," Ms. Hutchinson said. "If you pay your rent, you know you've got a home over your head." 
 Ms. Hutchinson lives in a building in what is known to many as "the projects," a complex that is often thought of as a place to fear and to avoid, because of drug sales and gang activity.
She remembers a time as recently as three years ago when drug addicts and dealers forced her to stay inside her home. But today, Ms. Hutchinson says, there is reason to celebrate.
"They're cleaning up this place," said the 78-year-old retired domestic worker. "It's much better than what it was."
Still, some residents say the problem of drug dealers has not been eradicated, and the lack of businesses within the area that are willing to reinvest in the community is a concern.
Yesterday Ms. Hutchinson joined her neighbors and community leaders to celebrate the 60th anniversary of the Queensbridge Houses, in Long Island City, which was the largest public housing complex in the nation when it was built.
When it opened on Oct. 25, 1939, public officials thought it was the answer to the city's severe housing shortage.
The buildings' designer said Queensbridge's seemingly endless rows of red-brick six-story buildings were built in a Y shape to ensure the economical use of the 47 acres on which the 26 buildings sit.
To many poor people, Queensbridge, which is bordered by the Queensboro Bridge, 21st Street, 40th Avenue and Vernon Boulevard, was an oasis in the midst of the city's unkempt flats.
Newspaper reports show that on the day the complex opened, Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia hailed its amenities: the children's nursery, a baby clinic and the community center, which housed a branch of the Queens Borough Public Library, a gymnasium, social rooms and a kitchen.
Housing Authority officials say Queensbridge now has more than 8,000 tenants. Across the country, many large public housing facilities are seen as crime-ridden failures and are being torn down. Residents say that Queensbridge, however, is thriving.
While the notion of celebrating public housing might seem strange, given the problems of many projects, Nina D. Adams, president of the development's tenants' association, thinks the observance is appropriate.
"You used to be scared to sit outside," Ms. Adams said. "It's not a shoot'em-up at the O.K. corral like it used to be. All of that has calmed down."
These days, she says, a spirit of family and community reigns supreme among the residents. When asked about the area's lore, the community leader rolls off the names of former residents who have achieved success. Local legends include the rapper Nas; Dr. Bob Lee, a disc jockey for radio station WBLS; Pat Martin, basketball coach for Long Island University; and Ron Artest, a basketball star at St. John's who was drafted by the Chicago Bulls. Ms. Adams proudly said they are proof that good people live in public housing.
"We have a lot of good people in our development," said Detective Robert Nero, who heads the Police Department's community affairs unit that serves the housing development.
Detectives said major reported crimes in Queensbridge decreased 24 percent in the last year.
For a few hours yesterday, the tenants created a carnival atmosphere in what some might see as normally dreary surroundings. Gospel, hip-hop and rhythm and blues filled the air as friends and neighbors socialized, danced and ate together at the anniversary celebration.
The bridge may cast a physical shadow on the development, said Councilman Walter L. McCaffrey, who presented community leaders with a congratulatory proclamation from the city, but it does not overshadow the tenants' spirit. "This is a strong neighborhood standing on its own," he said.
To ensure that Queensbridge residents can compete in the work world, Ms. Adams said, she is organizing adult education programs. Computer and sewing classes, summer day camps and a nursery are currently available.
Ms. Adams says that problems within Queensbridge are no different than those in other places.
"There's nothing wrong with public housing," Ms. Adams said. "It's what you make of yourself. It's not where you live. It's what you do."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Some older residents, above, reveled in the festivities at the 60th anniversary of the Queensbridge Houses, shown at right shortly after the project was completed. (Fairchild Aerial Surveys Inc.); (George M. Gutierrez for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PUBLIC HOUSING; QUEENSBRIDGE HOUSES (NYC); DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); CHILDREN (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (76%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (70%); FAMILY (70%); GANGS (70%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (65%); LIBRARIES (60%); 

PERSON: DAY, SHERRI NINA D ADAMS (88%); ROXANNA HUTCHINSON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



645 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 678 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL 3-10
 
New Colombian Obstacles In Fighting Drug Traffic
The United States is committing more than $1 billion to Colombia's struggle against drug trafficking and armed groups responsible for drug production just as the government in Colombia is stumbling politically and the police chief who did the most to win American trust has stepped down. 1 

New North Korea Opportunities
American corporations based in Seoul are beginning to assess opportunities in a country that has been out of bounds for five decades. 7
 
South Korea is scaling down its 50th anniversary commemoration of the Korean War in light of the new developments with the North. 6
 
Peaceful Zimbabwe Vote
Zimbabwe held long-awaited national elections. Despite weeks of political unrest, early voting was reported free of the brazen intimidation that marked the campaign. 10
 
Shoring Up Mexican Economy
Mexican economists are surprisingly united in feeling that the economy is strong enough during this presidential campaign season to keep any disturbance caused by the handover of power from becoming disaster. 8
 
Human Trafficking Networks
Trafficking in people is now the fastest-growing business of organized crime, and it is being run by new, barely understood networks, a top official at the United Nations said. 10
 
NATIONAL 12-23
 
Larger Drug Benefits Proposed by Clinton
President Clinton has announced a major change in his proposal for Medicare drug benefits, making it more generous to millions of elderly people and more costly to the federal government. The plan would cost $79 billion over five years, or more than twice as much as the $38 billion proposal he sent Congress as part of his budget request in February. 1
 
Prices on Internet Rise
Internet retailers are trying many tactics to reassure worried investors, like laying off workers and raising advertising prices. And after long offering deep discounts, they are bringing prices back up. 1
 
Governor Faces Crisis
Gov. Mike Foster of Louisiana, who once had high approval ratings, is facing a decline in popularity as his state hits an economic crisis. 12
 
Dying Alone in San Francisco
In San Francisco a relatively large number of people are dying alone, with no one to arrange their funerals or settle their estates. 12
 
Hispanic Voters Courted
Hispanics, a fast-growing bloc of voters, are being aggressively courted by presidential candidates and gaining a new electoral leverage. 14
 
Fund-Raiser in Chief
President Clinton has been on the road, using his marquee value to raise millions of dollars for the Democratic Party and its candidates. 16
 
NEW YORK/REGION 25-33
 
Police Have Not Relaxed Grip, People on the Streets Say
In interviews with some 200 people in all five boroughs, most of those who have substantial contact with police officers said they did not share the perception that the Police Department has relaxed its enforcement tactics in the face of criticism. 1
 
Gay Pride Parade's Ranks Grow
Thirty years ago, about 200 men and women marched in the city's first gay pride parade. When that same parade steps off at noon today, its ranks will include the first lady of the United States and the mayor of New York, and it will count among its sponsors United Airlines and Budweiser. 25
 
In Albany, Civility and Progress
The legislative session that wound to a close in Albany on Friday ended with an extraordinary number of agreements on big issues. 25
 
Fresh Air Fund 26
 
OBITUARIES 35-36
 
Joshua Myron
One of the last surviving members of Vladimir Jabotinsky's Zionist brigade, which fought against Turkey in Palestine during World War I, he was 102. 36
 
Dr. Irving L. Lichtenstein
The physician who transformed hernia surgery from an operation requiring hospitalization into an uncomplicated procedure was 80. 35
 
Chess 35
Weather 37
Cong. Vote 31 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLOMBIA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); MEXICO (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEDICARE (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (74%); ORGANIZED CRIME (73%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); KOREAN WAR (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (60%); INTERNET RETAILING (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



646 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: City Is Slow In Cleaning Polluted Sites, Green Says

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Mark Green, the city's public advocate, sharply criticized the Giuliani administration yesterday, saying it had failed to identify and clean up thousands of blighted and polluted sites in New York City, squandering a chance to attract new business and create open space for the public.
Mr. Green's criticism focused on the efforts of the city, and to a lesser extent those of New York State, in cleaning up brownfields, polluted land that does not contain toxic waste. Such space has become a high priority for economic development in several parts of the nation. 
 At a news conference in front of an abandoned waterfront rail yard in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn, Mr. Green said that the city, in the midst of a real estate crunch, was risking the loss of "hundreds of millions of dollars in federal and state aid" and private funds that might be available to reclaim such sites.
The rail yard, which community groups want to convert into a recreation area, is one of 3,300 sites in the city that might be salvaged, he said. Most of the sites, Mr. Green said, were in Brooklyn, the Bronx and industrial areas outside Manhattan.
Mr. Green's criticism yesterday came at a time when City Hall was intensifying efforts to lure companies and jobs to the boroughs outside Manhattan. On Friday, legislators in Albany approved a package of incentives proposed by the mayor and the City Council that included tax credits of $3,000 per employee for companies that move above 96th Street in Manhattan or to the other boroughs.
Robert M. Harding, the deputy mayor for economic development, in response to Mr. Green's criticism yesterday, said, "His timing is pretty galling."
"He is doing this less than 24 hours after we have pushed through probably the most significant package of economic revitalization ever for the other boroughs, and with a lot of hard work by the mayor," he added.
Although the new incentives do not provide financing to clean up polluted land, he said, the city is working "very aggressively" to reclaim such sites for housing or commercial use.
But Mr. Green said the city had failed even to identify which of its sites meet the criteria of low-level pollution necessary to be classified as brownfields.
"While other cities have accessed hundreds of millions of dollars in federal, state and private brownfield redevelopment resources, New York City has obtained almost no government money, comparatively little private funding, and has had few major brownfield redevelopment projects," said a report issued yesterday by Mr. Green's staff.
It pointed to extensive efforts by other cities and states to develop brownfield sites, including those in New Jersey, where the new Performing Arts Center in downtown Newark and the IKEA super store in Elizabeth have been built over reclaimed brownfield sites.
The report said the city and state had reached agreement with a relatively small number of private companies to analyze and reclaim brownfields through voluntary cleanup programs, which involve government subsidies.
Since New York State began offering voluntary cleanup programs in 1994, the report said, 134 agreements have been signed and 200 reclamation projects begun across the state. Pennsylvania, it said, has used them to clean up more than 600 sites.
The report said 22 voluntary agreements had been signed for polluted sites in the city, and only four of those cleaned up. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; HOUSING CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); BROWNFIELD SITES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (78%); LAND RECLAMATION (78%); TRENDS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (72%); TAX LAW (65%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (56%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (50%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GREEN, MARK (PUBLIC ADVOCATE); HARDING, ROBERT M (DEPUTY MAYOR) MARK GREEN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



647 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 15; Page 16; Column 3; Women's Health 

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: FAMILY CARE;
Still Uninsured, and Still a Campaign Issue

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

 BODY:
THE problem of Americans who lack health insurance has been debated endlessly for the last decade, yet theranks of the uninsured keep growing. Having risen by more than a million a year in the 1990's, the number of uninsured now stands at 44.3 million - 16 percent of the population - even though the United States is enjoying the longest period of economic growth in its history. 
 The Clinton administration tried and failed to solve the problem with its sweeping health care initiative in 1993-94. Subsequent efforts by Congress and the administration have been far more modest, and in some states (notably Massachusetts, this month) frustrated advocates are trying to force the issue with referendums.
 Whatever Congress does or fails to do, health care will be a significant issue in this year's presidential campaign. It is a defining issue for many Democrats, and Bill Bradley pushed it to center stage in his unsuccessful primary challenge to Vice President Al Gore. Gov. George W. Bush, the likely Republican nominee for president, has also begun to address the issue, with a proposal for tax credits to help people buy insurance.
 Two big choices confront patients, politicians and policy makers: Should they pursue incremental changes in the health care system or comprehensive changes? Should they seek new government spending for health care or neew tax breaks to help people buy private insurance? What follows is a look at an issue that will not go away, and at the outlines - and potential pitfalls - of the two candidates' proposals.
 
THE PROBLEM ...
 Why does health care defy the best efforts of government officials and policy makers?
 
* Any significant change in the health care system will reshuffle huge sums of money and will inevitably redistribute income, with politically explosive effects.
* Policy changes almost always have unforseen consequences, because the health care system is immensely complex. It involves not only patients, doctors, community hospitals and drug companies, but also doens of medical specialities, teaching hospitals, rural hospitals, biotechnology companies, laboratories, drugstores, nurses, physical therapists, private insurance companies, health maintenance organizations, large employers, small businesses, labor unions and countless health care businesses that fill small niches.
* Health care markets are local. What works in New York or Florida may not work in Iowa or Oregon. State legislators have struck many bipartisan compromises on issues that provoke endless squabbles in Congress.
* Health policy aggravates fundamental philosophical disagreements about the proper role of government in managing or regulating a big sector of the economy.
*Health care involves life-and-death issues, so it has a moral and ethical dimension that generates more passion than purely economic questions.
 
... AND WHAT THE CANDIDATES SAY THEY'D DO
 
AL GORE Rathan than remaking the health care system, Mr. Gore would build on existing programs; mindful of the 1993-94 debacle, he has said, "We can't overhaul the system in one fell swoop." He would guarante access to insurance for all children by expanding eligibility for a health program that Congress created in 1997. And he would allow parents of eligible children to enroll in this program. (Most uninsured children come from families in which the parents are uninsured.)
 States could expand eligibility for the new Children's Health Insurance Program, so families with ncomes up to 2.5 times the official poverty level could qualify. (In most states, the ceiling on family income is set at twice the poverty level.) That program, or Medicaid, would also be open to families who could not get insurance through their employers, though they would have to pay the full premium; they would get a tax credit for 25 percent of the cost.
 Aides to Mr. Gore say his proposals would cover 11 million to 15 million people and would cost the federal government $146 billion over 10 years (about one-third more than health care initiatives proposed this year by President Clinton).
 
POSSIBLE FLAWS Critics say it is unrealistic for Mr. Gore to use Medicaid and the Children's Health Insurance Program as a foundation for the future. Many people already eligible for these programs are not enrolled. About one-fourth of the uninsured are not even eligible for Medicaid.
 States have had difficulty enrolling children in both programs. States vary in their enthusiasm, in their financial commitment and resources, and in the effectiveness of their efforts to find and enroll children.
 Parents may be unaware of what is available. They may avoid Medicaid because it bears the stigma of welfare. In some states, they still face obstacles to enrolling: long application forms, or requirements to apply in person at inconvenient times and places.
 
 
GEORGE W. BUSH Governor Bush, most Republicans and some Democrats support new tax breaks to help people buy health insurance.
 Mr. Bush has proposed a tax credit to help individuals and families who do not receive employer-sponsored coverage and are not eligible for public programs. The government would allow a credit up to $1,000 a year for an individual and $2,000 for a family to cover up to 90 percent of the cost of health insurance.
 Under a bill passed by the House in October, people who buy health insurance on their own could take a tax deduction for the premiums they pay. Such deductions usually cost the government less, but provide less assitance to consumers, than tax credits do.
 
POSSIBLE FLAWS Tax breaks are politically appealing, but they must be carefully designed if they are to promote a significant increase in the number of people with insurance coverage. Many needy people do not pay taxes, because of their low incomes. Forty-five percent of the uninsured do not owe any taxes, and 90 percent of those who do are in the 15 percent bracket, so a deduction offers only modest benefits.
 Under some proposals, people who already have health insurance would be allowed to take tax credits, In effect, they would be rewarded for doing what they already do. That may seem only fair, but it costs money and does not necessarily expand coverage.
 Jonathan Gruber, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, said, "Even very generous tax policies could not cover more than a sizable minority of the uninsured population." A generous refundable tax credit costing $13 billion a year would reduce the ranks of the uninsured by only four million people, he said.
 Prof. Mark V. Pauly, a health economist at the University of Pennsylvania, said, "Little tax credits don't help very much," But, he added, larger credits could have substantial effects.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Charts: "A Portrait of the Uninsured" lists number of Americans without health insurance by sex, age, race, education, work status, citizenship and income (Sources: Census Bureau, March 1998-99 Current Population Surveys; Employee Benefit Research Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); EMPLOYEE BENEFIT RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); OREGON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TAX LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ETHICS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); RURAL HEALTH (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (65%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (61%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (50%); PHYSICAL THERAPY (50%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



648 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000

SECTION: Section 15; Page 11; Column 1; Women's Health

LENGTH: 2290 words

HEADLINE: PATIENT POWER;
For Experimental Treatments, 'Somebody Has to Be First'

BYLINE: By Denise Grady

 BODY:
LOOKING back, Alice Myhal says it was partly the doctor's enthusiasm that helped her decide: she sensed an energy level as high as her own in Dr. Beth Overmoyer, and it struck a chord. But religion had a role, too. Since providence had brought her to Dr. Overmoyer just in time for a new, experimental treatment, she thought she must be meant to try it.
 
 Then there were the bleak odds for women with her condition, inflammatory breast cancer, an unusually aggressive type of cancer. Even with standard treatment, patients have only a 25 to 45 percent chance of living 5 years. Ms. Myhal, who is 45, hoped for more time. She had a teenage son and daughter, and wanted a chance to see them grow up.
 So in April, Ms. Myhal became part of an experiment at the Ireland Cancer Center at University Hospitals in Cleveland, a clinical trial testing standard chemotherapy combined with SU5416, an anti-angiogenesis drug meant to kill tumors by cutting off their blood supply. Dr. Overmoyer devised the trial, in the hope that adding SU5416 to chemotherapy, followed by surgery and radiation, would boost women's survival. The new drug had been shown to slow the progress of advanced colon cancer, but it had never been given to anyone with inflammatory breast cancer.
 "Somebody has to be first," Ms. Myhal said. "I felt sort of like the women astronauts."
 She became one of the 40,000 to 45,000 cancer patients in the United States - only 5 percent of all those with cancer - who brave, hopeful and sometimes desperate, participate in clinical trials. These are experiments in which groups of people, ususally matched for age and stage of illness, try a new drug or procedure. More than 600 cancer trials are under way in the United States, as well as several thousand more studies of other diseases.
 The trials usually have three phases, which can be summarized in three questions: Is it safe? Does it work? Is it better than standard treatment?
 Phase I studies, like the one Ms. Myhal entered, are designed to determine whether a new treatment is safe and what is the correct dosage of a drug. Patients may sign up hoping for a cure, but the real mission of Phase I trials is not to measure effectiveness. Not until Phase II are researchers supposed to look for signs that the treatment works. In Phase III, the treatment is compared with a usual therapy, or, if there is none, with a placebo.
 Like Ms. Myhal, many people find their way to clinical trials through their doctors, particularly if they are being treated at major medical centers where research is done. Others use the Internet or call organizations that specialize in referring people to trials.
 Earlier this month, President Clinton said that he would sign an executive order requiring Medicare to cover most of the costs of its patients in clinical trials, which should help ease their access to experimental treatments.
 Not everyone can get into a trial, however. Patients usually have to be at the exact stage of illjness speified by the experimental protocol, which are the rules set up to ensure that subjects are similar enough to yield meaningful results. Many trials also need people who have not been treated before, or who have not taken certain drugs that might interfere with the experiment.
 The gold standard in research is the "random controlled trial," in which patients are assigned ramdonly to one treatment group or another, with neither patients nor experimenters told which group is which until the trial is finished.
 Researchers consider clinical trials to be the backbone of medical progress. They are the most reliable way to determine whether a new treatment works and is safe, and they have led to improved therapy for cancer, AIDS, heart disease, asthma, diabetes, mental illness and hundreds of other disorders. Most children with cancer are treated in clinical trials, and cancer experts redit the high cure rates to that practice.
 Dr. Overmoyer, who is the director of clinical trials in breast cancer at the Ireland Center, said that offering clinical trials to patients was an important mission of a major cancer center. "We like to make sure there's always something new, something investigational, for everyone with breast cancer, because we're not curing everyone," she said.
 At a conference on breast cancer in New York this month, Dr. Larry Norton, head of the solid tumor oncology division at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, said, "Every advance we've made is from clinical trials." He added that patients in trials often fared better than those not in trials, and he described entering a trial as "actually a very smart thing for a patient to do."
Not all doctors agree. Some, thinking clinical trials use people as guinea pigs and therefore not worth the risks, do not encourage patients to participate. Others want to retain control of patients' treatment themselves.
 For people who take part in studiesk there can be great advantages but also great risks. On the positive side, trials can offer patients hope in the form of a chance to try promising treatments not yet available to the public. That is a powerful lure for people like Ms. Myhal, who have conditions for which the usual treatment does not work well, or for which there is no standard treatment. People in clinical trials often receive close medical monitoring, adn their health care and medications are ususally paid for, at least in part, by the company or the research institution sponsoring the trial.
 Many people who enter trials also find it heartening to think that even if the treatment does not help them, doctors may learn something that will help others.
 The potential drawbacks of being in a trial come from the fact that it is an experiment, and researchers do not know whether the new treatment will be safe and effective. Patients may be testing drugs or procedures never tried before in humans; there is a risk of being harmed. And if there is no standard treatment for an illness being studied, patients entering a trial may be assigned randomly to a control group that is being given placebos, a prospect that many find discouraging.
 Well-meaning doctors and hopeful patients may gloss over the primary mission of a clinical trial, which is not to benefit particpants but to gather information. Sick people in trials want to think of themselves as patients being treated, rather than research subjects being experimented on, said George Annas, the chairman of the health law department at the Boston University School of Public Health. But the patients are, in fact, research subjects, he said.
 In properly designed trials, independent researchers monitor the data as they accumulate so that the experiment can be halted if one group starts doing signficantly better than the other. Of course, that means the other group is doing worse, a determination that may not be made until a certain number of participants suffer adverse effects, deteriorate or even die.
 People with severe illnesses are often willing to take considerable risks for the chance to be cured. Dr. Christiaan Barnard, the South African heart transplant pioneer, described his patients' circumstances in the early days of transplanation as "lions or corcodiles": a person being chased by a lion to the edge of a river would jump in and try to swim across even if the river was full of crocodiles, but would never jump in if there were no lion.
 Some do make it to the other side, however. About a year ago, Mary Anna Kralj-Pokerznik, a middle-school teacher in Edmonton, Alberta, heard about a study at the University of Edmonton in which patients with Type 1 diabetes would be given transplants of insulin-producing cells to try to cure the disease. Patients with Type 1 diabetes make little or no insulin of their own, and must take injections of the hormone several times a day to control their blood surgar.
 Doctors had been trying such transplants for about 20 years, usually failing. This time, the cells, taken from the pancreas of organ donors, would be injected into the liver, and a new set of antirejection drugs would be used. Risks included the possibility of damaging the liver and, from the antirejection drugs, increased odds of infection and even certain cancers.
 But Mr. Kralj-Pokerznik, who is 30, had been idabetic for 20 years. She was jabbing herself in the fingers 20 times a day to test her blood sugar, taking insulin shots sixtimes a day and adhering to a rigid diet. Even so, she had tremendous swings in sugar levels which often brought her close to passing out, or left her feeling sick and lethargic.
 "The complications of diabetes - blindness, amputations, kidney failure, cardiovascular - I knew that with my fluctuations, it was not a matter of if, but of when," she said. "With this new therapy, being on low-dose antirejection drugs, there are some risks. But they are maybes. The others were a given."
 In May 1999, Ms. Kralj-Pokerznik under-went the cell transplant, which was performed by Dr James Shapiro, the leader of the university's transplant team. She has been off insulin for a year, with no signs of diabetes.
 "It was hard to believe at first," she said. "It didn't seem real." She revels in small, newfound freedoms: being able to take a walk whenever she feels like it, no longer planning her days around a rigid schedule of meals and snacks, shots and blood tests. She knows that the cells could fail or be rejected, but, she said, "I am hopeful."
 The Edmonton team has successfully treated eight patients, and their results, which will be published next month in The New England Journal of Medicine, were posted on its Web site in June as an "early release," which the journal reserves for studies of major import. Medical centers in this country will try the new procedure probably later this year.
 Not every experiment goes as well. For instance, at a cancer conference in May in New Orleans, Dr. Russell DeVore of Vanderbilt University in Nashville, Tenn., reported that in a clinical trial, four lung cancer patients unexpectedly began coughing up blood and died, possibly from an experimental drug, Rhumab.
 The public image of clinical triasl suffered greatly last year when Jesse Gelsinger, an 18-year-old from tucson, died during a trial of gene therapy at the University of Pennsylvania, from an infusion of gene-altered viruses meant to correct an enzyme defiency. The defiency had been under control with diet, so Mr. Gelsinger was not in the kind of desperate situation that might have justified the experiment's risks.
 An investigation revealed that he and his parents had not been fully informed of the dangers, and that Mr.Gelsinger had had some abnormal laboratory tests suggesting that he should have not been injected with the viruses. Gene therapy trials at the university were shut down.
 Dr. Overmoyer noted that highly publicized cases had made some patients wary of clinical trials. "It is so disheartening on so many levels," she said. "It breaks down the foundation of trust."
 At the Ireland Center, she said, "consent forms are very thorough, with every type of risk, almost including alien vasion; they are quite scary."
 But Ms. Myhal did not hesitate to enroll. "I felt we were heading in the right direction," she said.
 As predicted, the injections of SU5416 gave her cramps, headaches and some swelling of the affected breast. Because the drug can affect blood vessels, she is also being monitored closely for changes in blood clotting or in bleeding, as well as for heart problems. But, she said, she is reassured by the concern ad compassion of the nurses who are assisting with the study.
 After several rounds of treatment, she noticed that the tumor seemed to be shrinking. "I think it's going to be all right," she said. "I don't think the Lord would have presented this had it not been meant to be."
 She has become friendly with another woman in the study. They go to the clinic at different times, but often leave notes for each another. "We're like two girls in a capsule, but we're floating," Ms. Myhal said. "Hopefully, when we get out of this we'll have time to do something together."
 
 
Where to Search for Trials
VARIOUS searchable Internet sites offer extensive information about clinical trials, including lists of studies and explanations of informed consent and the different phases of trials and how they work. In some cases, information can also be obtained by telephone.
Actis.org gives information on clinical trials, specifically on AIDS; (800) 874-2572.
cancertrials.nci.nih.gov provides information about clinical trials in cancer. The National Cancer Institute also offers a Cancer Information Service, which helps patients to locate trials. Telephone: 1-800-4-CANCER.
www.CenterWatch.com, a division of the Medical Economics publishing company, lists newly approved drugs and clinical trials for many diseases. It also offers information on participating in clinical trials.
ClinicalTrials.gov, introduced in February by the National Institutes of Health, provides information on more than 4,400 federal and private studies of a wide array of diseases at about 50,000 sites nationwide.
www.nih.gov, the site of the National Institutes of Health, provides links to member institutes, many of which provide clinical trial information on their home pages. For example, www.nei.nih .gov, the site of the National Eye Institute, lists clinical studies on eye disorders; click on "clinical studies database"; (301) 496-5248.
www.nimh.nih.gov, the site of the National Institute of Mental Health, gives information on clinical trials for patients with mental disorders; (301) 443-4513.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Alice Myhal, a breast-cancer patient at the Ireland Cancer Center in Cleveland, is taking part in a clinical trial for SU5416, an anti-angiogenesis drug.; Another participant in the Cleveland trial, Beverly Young, is receiving her periodic dose of SU5416, which starves cancer tumors by cutting off their blood supply. (Photographs by Barney Taxel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. CANCER (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); HUMAN SUBJECTS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); COLORECTAL CANCER (76%); BREAST CANCER (76%); WOMEN (76%); CANCER HOSPITALS (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INTERNET & WWW (70%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (65%); MEDICARE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



649 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: 'Old School' Judge Adjusts to Running Police Force

BYLINE: By PAUL ZIELBAUER 

DATELINE: MIDDLETOWN, Conn., June 23

 BODY:
Arthur L. Spada, Connecticut's newly minted state police commissioner, likes to talk about the lessons he learned growing up in the ghetto. His parents, a bricklayer and a seamstress, arrived from Sicily in 1923, and raised their children on Front Street, on Hartford's hardscrabble east side in a house without indoor plumbing.
"We shined shoes at age 8 and 10," Mr. Spada recalled with proud fondness, sitting in his tall new leather chair behind his enormous new desk at state police headquarters. "We were ditch-diggers at 16." Before he left for Wesleyan University, where he studied history and, at 5 feet 4, became a starting linebacker, Mr. Spada had also worked four summers in Connecticut's tobacco fields, earning 35 cents an hour. "You came home, your whole body was loaded with nicotine," he said, brushing his hands over his arms. 
 "A day doesn't go by," he went on, leaning over the desk, where two needle-sharp pencils poked out of a rainbow-striped coffee mug, "that I don't make a value judgment on whether something is worth buying or investing based on the economics I learned on Front Street."
Mr. Spada, 67, is what some of the younger state troopers might call old school. Until he retired to take his current job, Mr. Spada spent the last 22 years as a Superior Court judge with no use for pagers, cell phones, computers or, by his admission, stylish clothing. "Judges are not fashion plates," he said, grimacing.
Now all that is changing, and Mr. Spada -- he still gets called Judge more than Commissioner -- is struggling to adapt, not only to the new electronics ("They even gave me a laptop"), new suits (bought at Filene's Basement) and his new gun (required), but also to a new profession.
"I've gone from kind of a monastic culture, where you sat in a courthouse chambers the size of my bathroom facility" -- he jerked a thumb at the private toilet next door to his office -- "to a culture involving people, contacts," he said. "As a judge, when you came into the courtroom, you had the first word and the last word. Now, you're working with 1,500 people. That is a cultural shock that I'm still adjusting to. You just simply cannot work as a Lone Ranger."
Though he has never been a police officer, Mr. Spada said it is imperative to show his new employees that he is one of them. "My responsibility is to show them that if I don't have blue blood," he said, referring to the police kind of blue, "I know what blue blood is."
Having been on the job for two weeks, Mr. Spada has begun drafting an agenda: to hire more troopers, including more non-white men and women, and boost the pay that already ranks third highest of all state police agencies; to complete the installation of a new Motorola radio communications system; and to wire all patrol cars with on-board computers.
There is one more policy change to come under Commissioner Spada: traffic violations. The Commissioner promised that troopers would soon begin an all-out attack on Connecticut's increasingly crowded highway traffic, ticketing speeders, tailgaters and bringing what Mr. Spada twice referred to as "rogue truckers" to "a screeching halt."
With the General Assembly's approval, Commissioner Spada would also like to begin using video cameras already installed along Interstate 95, where the speed limit is 55 m.p.h., to catch speeders.
While Mr. Spada adjusts to being a member of the police force, he is also adapting to other things, like the hour it takes to drive 20 miles north to Hartford each night, not because of traffic congestion, but because his chauffeured state police car is required by law to pull over and assist any stranded or disabled vehicles encountered on the state's highways. "It's a very unusual, lucky day when we can get home without any incidences," Mr. Spada said, toying with a pair of black wrap-around sunglasses, a gift from his predecessor, Dr. Henry Lee.
When word got out that Gov. John G. Rowland had offered the commissioner's job to Mr. Spada, best known as the grand jurist who presided over the indictment of six police officers in 1994, including one state trooper, people immediately compared him to Dr. Lee. An unusually popular state police commissioner who pioneered the application of forensic science to police work, Dr. Lee left the department after two years and remains a consultant to the Connecticut State Police.
The comparisons did not trouble Mr. Spada, who believes he will be every bit the efficient administrator Dr. Lee was. But if Dr. Lee infused the agency with star power and a touch of high-tech elan, Commissioner Spada intends to improve it with elbow grease and a work ethic learned in the tobacco fields. All applied with the charm and curiosity that have served Mr. Spada well over the years.
An avid reader of history, including five biographies of Abraham Lincoln, Judge Spada ingratiated himself with a group of judges visiting from Bosnia three years ago by displaying a detailed knowledge of European history and discussing the peregrinations of the Visigoths through southern Europe.
"They were extremely impressed," said Anthony Fisser, who leads the Connecticut Judges Institute, a continuing education program for state judges.
Richard Blumenthal, Connecticut's attorney general, who first met Mr. Spada nearly 20 years ago, said Mr. Spada was a deceptively simple man. "He's a much smarter and articulate person that your impression might be on first meeting him," Mr. Blumenthal said. "When I met him, I remember thinking, 'Gee, this guy is charming, but how smart is he?' But he is razor sharp. He doesn't need to use multisyllable words to show anybody how smart he is."
But Mr. Spada does not seem like a man whose life is dedicated only to work. On warm weekends, he gardens; he cycles 25 miles every Saturday and Sunday or plays golf at a public course, which, he points out, costs only $6 a round. In the winter, he skis at Butternut, a hill in Connecticut where lift tickets are $9. How long will he stay on the job? That depends on two things, he said: he will stay as long as the governor wants him to, and as long as his health holds out. Mr. Spada underwent quadruple bypass surgery 18 years ago, and has had no complications since.
"Am I lucky? How long will it last?" he asked, and he rapped his knuckles on his big new wooden desk.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Arthur L. Spada, Connecticut's new state police commissioner, misstated the location of Butternut Basin Ski Area, where Mr. Spada skis in the winter. It is in Massachusetts, not Connecticut.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Arthur L. Spada, Connecticut's new state police commissioner, may still be getting used to his laptop and gun, but it's not slowing him down. (Richard Mei for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FILENE'S BASEMENT INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLICE FORCES (91%); CHILDREN (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); TOBACCO FARMING (73%); ATHLETES (69%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (69%); HISTORY (69%); JUDGES (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (64%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: SPADA, ARTHUR L (COMR); ZIELBAUER, PAUL ARTHUR L SPADA (98%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



650 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
Do the Poor Have a Right To Cheap Medicine?

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr. 

DATELINE: GENEVA

 BODY:
FOR years now, the Other War on Drugs has been fought from the thatch-roofed hospitals of rural Africa to the travertine-clad corridors of the United Nations' Palace of Nations here. It is a war over the sale of life-saving medicines to developing countries. At issue are not only prices but also implications for free trade and intellectual property rights.
Advocates for the world's poor are mounting a powerful moral and political campaign to make advanced medicines available much more cheaply, even though it costs billions of dollars to research and develop them. But can pharmaceutical corporations greatly discount their products for the poor yet continue to finance research and show a profit? And do the poor have an absolute moral right to such medicines, even to the point of infringing patents and pirating drugs? 
 Thanks to capitalism's victory in the cold war and pressure from the West for open markets, the world's pharmaceutical giants have largely had the upper hand in the struggle.
That is no longer true.
The balance has shifted with the forming of an awkward coalition of public health agencies, governments and drug makers in the third world, advocates for AIDS patients, consumer groups and demonstrators who disrupt world trade meetings. The battle line itself was redrawn last month when the White House changed its position on the way poor countries adopt the 1994 Treaty on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights. Written to end piracy of consumer goods, the agreement has an obscure section permitting patented products to be copied in emergencies. The AIDS epidemic is such an emergency, said Michael R. Reich, a professor at the Harvard School of Public Health. Executives can no longer focus only on profits, he said.
"Big pharma has recognized that it has to think more positively about access for poor countries," Professor Reich said.
If such a "health exception" to the treaty were recognized, the door would be open to treat the forgotten epidemics of malaria, sleeping sickness and elephantiasis as emergencies. This may be possible because of the new forces that have entered the fray. The new director general of the World Health Organization, Gro Harlem Brundtland, has reinvigorated an agency previously known for its sluggishness. Doctors Without Borders, a group already critical of the drug industry, won the 1999 Nobel Peace Prize, effectively spinning a halo around its every utterance. Act Up, a protest organization, suddenly took up Africa's cause and began hounding Vice President Al Gore over his ties to the industry.
Last month, the White House issued an executive order: it would not oppose African nations that violated American patent law to get AIDS drugs. Did that mean the government had actually switched sides in the debate over protecting the pharmaceutical giants?
"Protecting intellectual property rights is fundamental to having a dynamic pharmaceutical industry," said Donna E. Shalala, the secretary of health and human services. "But at the same time, we're recognizing the need to drag down the costs of drugs." Ms. Shalala called it a "balancing act."
Two days later, five pharmaceutical giants agreed to discuss voluntary cuts in the prices of their AIDS drugs to Africa, even cuts of 80 percent. That would reduce profits but enable the companies to control their patents.
A week later, a conference of world health ministers asked the W.H.O. for a database of prices for all AIDS drugs on sale, even in countries that ignore American and European patents, and for help in rewriting their own patent laws so they can buy them legally.
When the 1994 treaty was written, said Jeffrey D. Sachs, a Harvard economist who studies development in the third world, the industry didn't have in mind "a titanic struggle for the drug market in Tanzania -- Tanzania wasn't on the radar screen. They didn't even think about the implications for the poorest countries, and then they ran into this growing health disaster."
The five American, British and German companies offering to talk about price cuts are still vague about exact numbers. The one exception, Glaxo Wellcome, said it would cut its anti-retroviral cocktail Combivir from $16 a pill to $2. But it has not shipped the cheaper drug yet, and the company's representatives in Kenya recently declined to say whether Glaxo Wellcome wanted any quid pro quo from African countries -- such as dropping efforts to pass patent-seizure laws, as Kenya is considering. The drug companies have traditionally put intense pressure on countries contemplating such laws.
A recently released AIDS study for the United Nations showed that Brazilian companies were ready to sell generic anti-retrovirals at very low prices. A Combivir equivalent was offered for $1.44, for example, and ddC for 24 cents a pill, rather than $8.80, its American price. The drug industry has long warned that copies may be substandard.
If the poor actually dare to demand free drugs, can the hugely profitable industry really afford it? The answer seems to be: up to a point.
PFIZER donates millions of doses of Zithromax to the International Trachoma Initiative, which treats a form of blindness common in central Africa. The powerful antibiotic sells for up to $60 a dose in the West, and earns the company $1 billion a year. Yet Pfizer moves cautiously in Africa and Asia to make sure that the drug is not smuggled back to Europe or America, undermining sales. Merck donates Ivermectin for river blindness; Bayer gives Praziquantel for schistosomiasis, which is caused by liver flukes. But the quantities are never sufficient, and administrative costs are high.
If Western industry can't find a solution, it will find the world turning to what the industry sees as its nemesis, India. There, 26,000 companies replicate everything from antibiotics to AIDS cocktails to Rogaine and Viagra -- all legally, since Indian law recognizes patents on processes, not products.
"We don't need to be apologetic about it," India's secretary of health, Javid A. Chowdhury, said in an interview. "We are a self-contained developing economy -- we live on little, but we survive. The per-capita health budget in India is $10 a year."
But even this generic copying must end. India recently signed the 1994 treaty on intellectual property rights and must enforce it by 2005.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 9, 2000, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article in the Week in Review on June 25 about the right of the poor to inexpensive medicine incorrectly described the disease schistosomiasis. It is caused by a blood trematode, not by a liver fluke.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plentiful, cheap drugs could combat epidemics in poor countries. A Kenyan father with a son ill with malaria. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (94%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA (94%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); TROPICAL DISEASES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (89%); PATENTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); PATENT LAW (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); AIDS & HIV (89%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (88%); EPIDEMICS (87%); MOSQUITO BORNE DISEASES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MALARIA (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); CONSUMER LAW (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ANTIVIRALS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (73%); DRUG POLICY (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (67%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (66%); NOBEL PRIZES (64%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: MCNEIL, DONALD G JR AL GORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



651 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 25, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
Hold On to Those Wallets. There's a Governor's Race.

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson reports from New Jersey for The York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
Taxpayers of New Jersey, look to your wallets. Next year's governor's race is already under way, and the two most powerful men in Trenton are competing for your vote with projects that could end up adding heavily to the state's debt -- debt that will have to be paid back with interest.
The focus of concern about debt is in the two big capital programs being worked out in time for the passage of the budget this week. One is the school construction bill, which started out as a $2.8 billion, court-ordered program to help poor districts replace aging buildings, and which has grown to $15 billion -- with money in it for wealthier districts as well. The other big bill before the Legislature is the Transportation Trust Fund, which started out paying for roads and bridges with a portion of the gasoline tax, and has since ballooned into a something-for-everyone measure with a hefty debt load built in. 
 From the point of view of someone who will be paying the taxes on this four or five years from now, the problem is not necessarily the size of the school construction bill but how it will be financed. Of $8.6 billion that the state estimates will be spent on school construction in the next decade, only $100 million will come from tax revenue, leaving the rest to be borrowed. According to budget calculations, the cost of that borrowing will amount to more than $6 billion.
Jack Collins, the speaker of the assembly and presumably a future Republican contender for governor, is also a leading player in the school construction debate. It was Mr. Collins, after all, who offered to make the $1 billion loan fund -- interest free -- available to suburban districts. But since the debt service on that money has to come from somewhere, taxpayers will end up paying for it anyway.
It was also Mr. Collins who opposed letting the courts force the state to pay 100 percent of school construction costs in poor districts on the principled constitutional ground that only the Legislature can appropriate money, not the court. But once the courts rejected his objection, the speaker used his power adroitly to sweeten same bill with gifts to the suburban districts whose voters will choose next year's Republican candidate for governor.
The Transportation Trust Fund has a similar debt load liability as the school construction fund. When it was created in the early 1980s, the fund was intended to operate on a pay-as-you-go basis, with a portion of the gas tax paying for current highway and public transportation projects, and with borrowing kept low and short-term to smooth the revenue stream for each project.
But the recessions in 1989 and 1992 produced lower gas tax income levels, while demand for project spending continued to grow. Since elected officials hate to reduce spending -- only taxes -- they began borrowing to shore up the Trust Fund as it wobbled out of balance. This year, the borrowing reached $900 million.
Concerned, Governor Whitman proposed a frank stopgap measure, a one-year plan while lawmakers thought of long-term solutions.
But the transportation projects are popular with the voters, just as free school buildings are, and Mr. Collins and Donald T. DiFrancesco, the president of the senate and the speaker's chief competition for the Republican nomination, did not want spending to come unstuck with a campaign under way. Instead, they came up with a four-year plan that increased annual spending on roads and bridges, while responding to expressions of concern about the level of borrowing by offering to reduce annual borrowing from the current level of $900 million a year to $650 million for the next four years.
But critics complain that a worthy step toward reducing debt is marred by the decision of the two leaders to make up for the lost borrowing by siphoning money from the general treasury, which only means less money for the other things the state does, like building new schools.
And even at reduced levels, $650 million a year in borrowing for four years can pile up a lot of debt when it comes on top of the borrowing already committed to. Under the plan, interest payments that now run about $380 million will swell to $600 million a year by 2004. That means that nearly two-thirds of the appropriation for roads and bridges that year will go to pay interest.
Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a liberal research group, was critical of the Collins-DiFrancesco solution.
"We've been borrowing instead of appropriating," Mr. Shure said, "and we will end up paying interest with dollars that could have been put into transportation projects."
Tim Blake, a senior analyst at Moody's Investors Service, tracks New Jersey's debt load, and he, too. is watching the school construction measure and the transportation trust fund. He says most states are using the flush times to spend more and borrow less
New Jersey, with a $1 billion surplus likely, is also moved in that direction, Mr. Blake said, although at a slower pace than other states.
"From our perspective, school construction and transportation are the two most significant capital needs facing the state," Mr. Blake said, "and it is certainly our basic view of New Jersey that debt ratios will continue their upward move over the next five or six years, at least."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 29, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the Political Briefing column on June 25 omitted attribution for a news account of a comment by the campaign manager of Gov. Frank O'Bannon of Indiana in an exchange about politics and rising gasoline prices. It was The Indianapolis Star to whom the campaign manager, Tom New, said "Phooey" when told that some Republicans saw politics behind the governor's suspension of the gasoline tax. Attribution was deleted when the column was edited to fit assigned space; The Star pointed out the omission by e-mail yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Iver Peterson

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TRANSPORTATION; BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); POLITICS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FUEL TAX (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (74%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (73%); GASOLINE (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUBURBS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER JACK COLLINS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2000



652 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 154 words

HEADLINE: Asians in America

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "When to Campaign With Color: An Asian-American Told His Story to Whites and Won. For Black Politicians, It's a Riskier Strategy" ("How Race Is Lived in America," front page, June 20):
The Asian-American community is generally depicted in two ways, as the "model minority" and in competition with African-Americans for economic and political power. 
 While some Asian-Americans are faring well in school and in the workplace, the experience for most Asian immigrants is one of low-paying jobs, cramped apartments, nonexistent medical coverage, overcrowded schools, and frustrating language and social barriers.
Rather than pitting ourselves against other minority groups, we often work with African-American and Hispanic organizations to raise the standard of living and achieve social justice.
 
CHRISTOPHER KUI
Executive Director
Asian Americans for Equality
New York, June 22, 2000 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN AMERICANS FOR EQUALITY

ORGANIZATION: ASIAN AMERICANS FOR EQUALITY

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (STATE); UNITED STATES (99%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; ASIAN-AMERICANS; ELECTIONS; HISPANIC-AMERICANS ASIAN AMERICANS (95%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); ELECTIONS (88%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); 

PERSON: KUI, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



653 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Offerings And Other Debt Planned This Week

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financing this week includes today's regular weekly auction of new three- and six-month bills and a two-year note being auctioned on Wednesday.
According to traders, at the close of the New York cash market on Friday the rate on the outstanding three month bill was 5.67 percent and on the six-month issue, 5.92 percent. In when-issued trading, the two-year note was offered at a price to yield 6.51 percent.
The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:
 
TAXABLE
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Freddie Mac, $4 billion of new five-year reference notes. Goldman, Sachs & Co., Salomon Smith Barney and UBS Warburg.
 
Mutual Group Ltd., $150 million of senior notes, Baa2/BBB+/---. Prudential Securities.
 
Semco Energy Inc., $160 million remarketable or redeemable securities due 2008, remarketing date 2003, Baa1/BBB---. BancAmerica Securities. (Source: MCM CorporateWatch)
 
Ratings: Moody's Investors Service/Standard & Poor's Corp./Duff & Phelps Credit.
 
TAX-EXEMPT
 
TUESDAY
 
Alexandria, Va., $55 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
Maryland University Systems, $90 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
 
WEDNESDAY
 
Clark County, Nev., $200 million of bond bank bonds. Competitive.
 
Georgia, $277.8 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.
 
ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
 
Chicago Public Schools, $107 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch & Co.
 
Huntsville, Ala., solid waste, $75 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch.
 
Maricopa County, Ariz., pollution control, $144 million of revenue bonds for Southern California Edison. Bear, Stearns & Co.
 
Nassau County, $245 million of revenue-anticipation notes. Fleet Securities Inc.
 
New York State Environmental Facilities, $163 million of clean water and drinking water revolving fund. Goldman, Sachs.
 
New York State Mortgage Agency, $106 million of debt securities. J. P. Morgan Securities.
 
New York State Mortgage Agency, $67.8 million of debt securities. PaineWebber Inc.
 
Orange County, Fla., $112 million of certificates of participation. PaineWebber.
 
Philadelphia Industrial Development Authority, $67 million of debt securities for US Airways. Salomon Smith Barney.
 
Wisconsin Housing Development Authority, $85 million of debt securities. Merrill Lynch. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); LCC (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (70%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (70%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (70%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (69%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (69%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (68%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (53%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (53%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (52%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (85%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (70%); SEMCO ENERGY INC (69%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (68%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (68%); FLEET SECURITIES INC (65%); PAINEWEBBER INC (63%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (55%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (53%); SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON CO (53%); NEW YORK STATE ENVIRONMENTAL FACILITIES CORP (53%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (52%); NEW YORK STATE MORTGAGE AGENCY (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE MORTGAGE AGENCY (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALABAMA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES BONDS (93%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); DEBT NOTES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); DEBT FINANCING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAX LAW (75%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (65%); WATER QUALITY (61%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



654 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: New Economy;
Bell Atlantic takes advantage of an F.C.C. rule change to pursue long-distance customers.

BYLINE: By Seth Schiesel 

 BODY:
IT is not often in the telecommunications industry that a big company hits an immediate, unmitigated home run with consumers. AT&T's Digital One Rate wireless phone offering a couple of years ago, which eliminated roaming and long-distance fees, was one example. The 10-10 "dial-around" long-distance plans from MCI (now WorldCom) came close.
Now, Bell Atlantic, the local phone giant, is in the middle of a positively Ruthian blast into the long-distance market in New York. By the end of next month, Bell Atlantic will almost surely announce that it has signed up a million long-distance customers in New York just since the beginning of this year. 
 That is something like a quarter-billion dollars in annual revenue swiped from the likes of AT&T, WorldCom and Sprint in seven months. And you wonder why AT&T's consumer long-distance business is shrinking.
But here is the strange part: This trend is just getting started. Today, New York is the only state where consumers can buy long-distance service from their incumbent Bell company. By the end of the year, that is likely to be the case in at least four states: Connecticut, Georgia, New York and Texas. By the end of next year, that figure could be a dozen, or more, with California, Florida, Kansas, Massachusetts, New Jersey, Oklahoma and Pennsylvania fairly likely to join the list.
For this, the Bells have to thank the Federal Communications Commission, the Justice Department and their own new-found sobriety about just what it will take to win approval from those agencies to offer long-distance service. After years of yammering and breast-beating, the Bells have finally quieted down on this issue, mostly, and come to grips with the fact that the F.C.C. and the Justice Department are not going to be buffaloed. By slogging through the hard, unglamorous work necessary to win over the regulators rather than wailing to all and sundry about how unfairly they have been treated, the Bells have put themselves on the brink of getting all they really wanted from the Telecommunications Act of 1996: a chance to jump into the pot of gold they see in the long-distance market.
It also didn't hurt that John Nakahata, a highly respected former chief of staff at the commission, was recently able to win approval for a deal he brokered that will reduce the per-minute access charges that long-distance companies pay to local carriers for connecting calls.
That's a bit of a mouthful, and it gets even a little more complicated. But here is why it matters for the Bells' long-distance aspirations.
For years, one of the biggest revenue streams for the Bell companies, and other local carriers like GTE, has been the billions of dollars they collect from the long-distance carriers for beginning and ending long-distance calls. Those per-minute fees have inflated long-distance rates for consumers.
Now, as part of Mr. Nakahata's deal, the Bells may increase one of the fixed monthly fees they charge consumers, so from an overall revenue standpoint, the deal is supposed to be a wash for the Bells. (Of course, the long-distance companies like it because they can pay less to the local incumbents.)
But shifting from the per-minute fees to the monthly charges helps open the road to the long-distance arena because it helps assuage fears both at the commission and at the long-distance companies that the Bells could "double dip" were they allowed into long-distance under the old regime.
The fear was that the Bells would, with one hand, continue to collect the big per-minute fees while, with the other, enjoy unfair success in long-distance because the rates charged by the competition would be inflated by those very same fees.
So by reducing the per-minute fees, the Nakahata deal levels the playing field to a certain extent.
But the primary issue for the Bells remains the fact that before they are allowed to sell long-distance services in a given state, they must first convince the F.C.C. that they have opened their local networks in that state to competitors. In that regard, Bell Atlantic and the tough New York State regulators, who reviewed the Bell Atlantic case, have set the standard for the rest of the nation.
In New York, Bell Atlantic had to pass a detailed and rigorous battery of tests devised by KPMG, the consulting firm, which tested whether Bell Atlantic's systems were capable of supplying competitive local phone companies with access to parts of Bell Atlantic's networks.
The commission is not likely to accept anything less for any other state, and in the short run that has made life a bit tougher for the other Bells. A year ago, top executives from SBC Communications, which does business as Pacific Bell and Southwestern Bell, thought they could actually beat Bell Atlantic into long-distance by breaking into the Texas market. After they saw what Bell Atlantic went through in New York, however, they had to go back and come up with piles of additional documents to satisfy the regulators.
But that additional work will pay off, because now SBC knows just what it has to do in other states. It appears that SBC is now a shoo-in to win long-distance approval in Texas, and the company is hoping to file applications for California and probably Kansas and Oklahoma in the next six months.
In the Southeast, BellSouth is working hard in Georgia and is hoping to win long-distance approval for that state by Thanksgiving, though New Year's Eve is probably a more realistic target. BellSouth had not gone through serious testing in Georgia before seeing what Bell Atlantic did in New York, but has now gone back to conduct such tests.
Bell Atlantic is trying to replicate its New York experience in Massachusetts, New Jersey and Pennsylvania while the laggard still appears to be U S West, which has agreed to be acquired by Qwest Communications International Inc.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (92%); VZ (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BELL ATLANTIC CORP AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (92%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: BELL ATLANTIC CORP FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (95%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (89%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); RESIDENTIAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); APPROVALS (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH JOHN NAKAHATA (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



655 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

 
Philip Morris and Reynolds To Buy Parts of Nabisco
The Philip Morris Companies, owner of Kraft Foods, said it had reached an agreement to buy Nabisco Holdings, maker of Oreo cookies and Grey Poupon mustard.
After that sale is completed, Nabisco Group Holdings, which holds an 80.6 percent stake in the Nabisco operating company, said it would accept an offer from its former unit, R.J. Reynolds Tobacco. Page A1. 

Internet Body Faces Lawsuit
The Internet's administrative body, already low on cash and facing heavy criticism from international groups, has been served with what is believed to be its first lawsuit challenging its work. The suit was filed by Afternic, a New York company denied entrance to the lucrative business of registering Internet addresses, or domain names. C8.
 
Deutsche Telekom Ends Talks
Deutsche Telekom's Internet arm, T-Online International, has withdrawn from talks to acquire Britain's largest Internet service provider, Freeserve, for about $9 billion. C2.
 
Superhero Needed to Save Comics
Comic book publishers from the industry giant Marvel Enterprises on down are fighting to increase sales. The task is becoming increasingly difficult as the number of comic book shops drops and fewer newspaper stands and supermarkets carry the magazines. But publishers are trying new models, including sending a young Spider-Man to therapy. C11.
 
Applying an Old Patent to the Web
British Telecommunications, dusting off a 14-year-old patent, is claiming ownership of the linking technology that lets Web users move around the Internet by clicking on text and pictures. The company has begun sending letters to Internet service providers in the United States asking them to pay royalties. Patent specialists say British Telecommunications has a difficult case to prove. But they expect the number of such cases to rise as people try to apply old and new patents to broad areas of the Internet. C4.
 
Madison Ave.'s Don't Ask, Don't Tell
Few executives on Madison Avenue have publicly disclosed their homosexuality -- as a stock analyst on Wall Street did last week -- and many in the advertising industry say such a step would still be deemed surprising. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C16.
 
Cloning Patent Raises Questions
A Wisconsin company has won a patent that it says overcomes a critical obstacle in cloning mammal cells. The company, Infigen, owns a large herd of cloned cattle which produce genetically engineered milk proteins used in drug research, and it says it plans to use the patent to further that production and related research to clone more cattle. The patent is broad enough to include the cloning of human cells -- perhaps the most controversial aspect of bio-technology. Patents. C13.
 
The Bells' Long-Distance Play
BellAtlantic is the first local phone giant to take advantage of a change in rules by the Federal Communication Commission that allows local carriers to offer long-distance service. BellAtlantic has already signed up one million long-distance customers in New York, and will try to expand its efforts to other states. Other local providers, like BellSouth and SBC Communications, may follow suit. New Economy. C4.
 
The AP Puts an Emphasis on Maps
If the Associated Press succeeds with its newest project, people who read newspapers, watch television news broadcasts or scan Web media sites will have greater access to all kinds of maps. The new product, called MapShop, is a Web-based program designed to allow journalists to create in minutes sophisticated, information-rich maps that once might have taken hours or even days. C11.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos
 
Chart: "LAST WEEK"
Dow industrials -- 10,404.75 down 44.55
Nasdaq composite -- 3,845.34 down 15.22
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.03% up 0.16
The euro -- $0.9367 down 0.0282
The dollar -- 104.62 yen down 1.69

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (96%); DTE (FRA) (92%); DTE (BIT) (92%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (96%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (92%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (92%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); NAICS311812 COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (58%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: ALTRIA GROUP INC (96%); DEUTSCHE TELEKOM AG (92%); KRAFT NABISCO (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (58%); T-ONLINE INTERNATIONAL AG (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); UNITED KINGDOM (71%); WISCONSIN, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); DRESSING & SAUCE MFG (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); PATENTS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); COOKIE & CRACKER MFG (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (88%); CLONING (87%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (87%); MAMMALS (84%); BIOETHICS (84%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (79%); ROYALTIES (78%); NEWSSTANDS (77%); DOMAIN NAMES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); COMIC BOOK & GRAPHIC NOVEL PUBLISHING (72%); PERIODICAL PUBLISHING (72%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (71%); BIOTECHNOLOGY PATENTS (70%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (69%); BOOKSTORES (67%); COLLECTORS SHOPS (67%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (65%); ANIMAL CLONING (65%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (60%); HUMAN CLONING (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



656 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
Helping to Bring a Famous Thoroughfare Back to Life

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
MOST visitors go to the National Portrait Gallery to look at the pictures. But one guide stresses the building itself, "arguably the finest public building in America." Speaking of the architect Robert Mills, he says: "It is his masterwork. It is his Parthenon." The site matters, too, at the right angle of a triangle down F Street to Mills's Treasury building, down Eighth Street, where the Ionic columns of the 1930's National Archives building face the Corinthian columns of what was built a century before. The third side is Pennsylvania Avenue, stretching from the Capitol to the White House -- or, as President George Washington called it in presenting Pierre L'Enfant's plan to Congress, "the Grand Avenue connecting both the palace and the federal house."
Details pour out. In the L'Enfant plan, the site had been reserved for a national cathedral. Instead President Andrew Jackson used the site for the patent office -- "not a bad substitute for a republic," the guide observes. And when patents were no longer worshiped, around 1952, the building was almost torn down so a vast parking garage could replace it. 
 Daniel Patrick Moynihan, 73, the Senate's Renaissance intellectual, is showing off the rebirth of that grand avenue that Washington wanted "most magnificent & most convenient."
New York's retiring senior senator may be better known for a dedication to getting New York taxpayers more of their money back from Washington, a deep understanding of welfare and Social Security and an intense internationalism (he called the pending Senate action on trade with China "one of the half-dozen most important votes of the postwar era"). But if it is too much to call the renewal of Pennsylvania Avenue his monument, it is fair to think of him as its inspired political general contractor -- the constant in the process that has involved several plans and eight presidencies through several recessions and one war.
President Washington wanted the avenue "built up at once." Its south side filled with government buildings in the 20's, though in fact it saw only their rear entrances; their front doors faced the Mall. And those buildings closed at night. As Mr. Moynihan said at Seventh Street: "When we started this, the only light at night between the Capitol and the White House, save for the Occidental Restaurant, was Apex Liquors, which was right here. And this also was Mathew Brady's studio, on the top floor."
Today the twin towers of the Apex building remain, but they are surrounded by activity. "Outdoor cafes are everywhere," the senator said. "And there are always a few sailors around," drawn to a particular point of pride for the World War II sailor himself, the flowing fountains, granite map and larger-than-life "Lone Sailor" of Stanley Bleifeld's Navy Memorial. When Mr. Moynihan talks of "when we started this," he means 1961, when he was an assistant labor secretary in John F. Kennedy's administration under Arthur J. Goldberg.
MR. MOYNIHAN wrote the first policy statement in 1962, calling for needed new buildings (nothing had been built since the 30's) "in an architectural style and form which is distinguished and which will reflect the dignity, enterprise, vigor and stability of the American National Government," with emphasis on "the choice of designs that embody the finest contemporary American architectural thought." President Kennedy made this government policy.
In the following decades, Mr. Moynihan played a variety of roles -- including one he still enjoys, as occupant of a new apartment on the avenue. When he investigated what could be preserved, he recalls, he found eight-foot shrubs growing inside the Pension building and bat dung on the ladders in the old Post Office tower. As an adviser to Richard Nixon on urban affairs, he brought the new president's support to what might have been discarded as a Kennedy-Johnson project. As a senator for the last 24 years, he came to deal with public buildings and finally made a reality of the International Trade Center at 14th Street, between the avenue and the Mall, the last piece of the Federal Triangle that Treasury Secretary Andrew Mellon had seen to in the 20's.
Mr. Moynihan's ability to work with Republicans as well as Democrats, though it sometimes frustrates fellow Democrats of stronger partisanship, is central to his work on the avenue. One telling example: House Speaker Newt Gingrich was appalled at the cost of James Ingo Freed's trade center. Mr. Moynihan says durability requires government buildings to cost more than K Street office blocks: "If you want a 200-year building, you've got to pay more." But that wasn't the decisive argument, not in political Washington. The crucial moment was when Mr. Moynihan seized on a California Republican's bill to name the building for Ronald Reagan and got it passed. Opposition vanished.
As guide, Mr. Moynihan also stopped at what he likes least about Pennsylvania Avenue today -- the concrete barriers shaped like ugly flower pots that closed it off in front of the White House in 1995. "Somehow," he said in the Jefferson Lecture at the University of Virginia in April, "we have got to recover our nerve, shaken really since Nov. 22, 1963."
Those barriers of horrid design remain on his mind over a crab cake lunch in a chic restaurant in the Reagan building. The tour finished and the architectural and bureaucratic success stories told, he is somber when asked if he is satisfied with four decades of work on the avenue. "No," he says, "this avenue is not finished until it is open."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Pennsylvania Avenue tour guide. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (84%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (84%); NATIONAL PORTRAIT GALLERY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ARCHITECTURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ARCHITECTURE LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); PATENTS (67%); RESTAURANTS (63%); WORLD WAR II (61%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (56%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (50%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); CLYMER, ADAM DANIEL PATRICK MOYNIHAN (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



657 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2135 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY: Networking in Southern California;
'Anti-Silicon Valley' Broadcom Chief Rules in the Wired World

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

DATELINE: IRVINE, Calif.

 BODY:
"We are not an amorphous sea of communists," Henry T. Nicholas 3rd, co-founder of the Broadcom Corporation, said, rolling his eyes in disgust.
He had just arrived at his Southern California office -- forehead damp from a morning workout, three-piece suit snug against his 6-foot-6 frame -- and already he was ripping into one of his pet peeves of the new economy: open cubicle space. 
 Sure, Andrew S. Grove, the Intel chairman, had a cubicle, "but it was ceremonial," Mr. Nicholas said. "If an employee wants to shut his door, he should be able to do it." That is what his colleagues used to do when he worked as a young engineer in the once-vibrant aerospace industry here in the Los Angeles region, far from precious Northern California.
In fact, a lot of things bug Mr. Nicholas about the way Silicon Valley technology companies are run these days -- like executives who allow employees to bring dogs to work, turning offices into playgrounds. Or the way venture capitalists have become all but gods in the new technological order.
But Broadcom, whose engineers design silicon chips that quickly send voice, data and video over cable lines, has risen to the top of its game as the photographic negative of a Silicon Valley company. And its leader is the antithesis of the new age, new economy Zen master. At Broadcom, as Mr. Nicholas makes clear, "I run the show."
In practice that means rousing subordinates from their beds past midnight when he wants to talk about a project, or dictating the company's dress code: suits for engineers and managers when customers visit, and no khakis or jeans. "We like to think of ourselves as the anti-Silicon Valley company," said Mr. Nicholas, who is known as Nick. "You are not going to be worshiped here, but you will spend time getting to build a product that only you can do."
It is no wonder he is called Darth Vader by fans and competitors alike. For like Darth Vader, the 40-year-old Mr. Nicholas wants to rule a universe -- in this case the wired universe.
It was in 1991 that the former silicon chip designer, who has a Ph.D. in electrical engineering, teamed up with Henry Samueli, his friend and former professor, to start Broadcom. Their timing was impeccable. The Internet was just taking off and networking equipment makers needed chips to convert slow-moving analog signals into faster digital ones.
Broadcom's chips are in 90 percent of all digital television set-top boxes and cable modems and 65 percent of local area computer networks, analysts estimate. So far, only Lucent Technologies and Intel's Level One subsidiary have challenged Broadcom's networking products, and Texas Instruments is its only rival in cable modems. And Broadcom has taken the lead in making chips for the burgeoning market for broadband home networking.
Market share like that is hard to come by. So it is no surprise that Broadcom was one of the brightest initial public offerings of 1998 -- up 500 percent from its offering price by the end of that year and up 1,095 percent from its offering through Friday -- making Mr. Nicholas and Mr. Samueli, who each own 16 percent of the company, worth more than $5 billion each.
That competitive advantage could well continue, said Joseph Osha, senior semiconductor analyst for Merrill Lynch. He predicts earnings at Broadcom, which has a market capitalization of $35 billion, will grow 125 percent in fiscal 2000 as consumers and businesses crave more interactive capabilities over the Internet.
Mr. Osha attributes a recent slump in Broadcom's stock price (down 35 percent from its March high) to overall technology malaise. "It's fairly difficult to counterinvade their space," Mr. Osha said. Add to that the notion that Internet shopping and entertainment are fast becoming one, and Broadcom's technology looks even more valuable.
But Mr. Nicholas keeps pressing Broadcom to maintain its edge. "The joke is he gets by on liquid protein and two hours of sleep a night," Mr. Osha said, which may not be far from the truth. Broadcom's corporate culture reflects Mr. Nicholas's own tendency to work 18-hour days until a project is done.
"You have to take yourself to the absolute limits of human behavior," he said, his arms slicing the air. "The whole concept is you leave nothing in reserve."
As if to prove his point, he pulled out a random page from his running schedule from the summer of 1997 and recounted in gory detail a day in June when he was so sick he threw up in a patch of grass and logged that season's worst workout. But 20 days later, he said with pride, he tied his personal best. "It was complete focus on getting a task done," he said. "That is the culture we are trying to create here."
And how do the citizens of that culture respond?
Engineers are attracted to Broadcom for the same reasons they flock to Silicon Valley: stock options that are worth millions. But while Mr. Nicholas and his currency may attract talent, it is Mr. Samueli, now the company's chief technology officer, who patches up hurt feelings after Mr. Nicholas's frequent expletive-laced tirades.
"They view me as more their mentor and father," the 45-year-old Mr. Samueli said. "I'm there for them to complain to."
Mehdi Hatamian, an engineer and project director who has worked at Broadcom for four years, recalled an incident in late 1996 when one of the chips his team was designing had a flaw that needed fixing. Mr. Nicholas was displeased with the time it was taking and called a meeting to tell the team so. For several minutes he raged, demanding to know who was responsible for the flaw. He finally turned to Mr. Hatamian, who said Mr. Nicholas angrily growled, "You are responsible for this."
"Nick, did you come here to blame me or get a problem solved?" Mr. Hatamian shot back, challenging Mr. Nicholas to fire him. Mr. Hatamian then outlined his plan for fixing the chip design, and after a two--hour grilling, returned to his office and, for several days, worked until 3:30 a.m. until the problem was fixed.
Even board members have asked him to ratchet down, Mr. Nicholas acknowledged. At a directors meeting last year, he said, some questioned whether it was wise for their highly visible chief executive to continue sky diving. He scoffed at the suggestion that he stop, citing statistics that showed his hobby -- which he practices several times yearly -- was safe. Besides, Mr. Nicholas said drolly, "They know if I died it would be the ultimate failure, and I hate to lose."
Still his antics, at times, are nothing short of a public relations nightmare. He has the same sort of toys as his Silicon Valley peers -- the Lamborghini Diablo Roadster, the 15,000-square-foot estate, the jet leasing company. And last year, he and Mr. Samueli flirted with buying the Anaheim Angels baseball team and the Mighty Ducks hockey team.
But unlike the rich men up north, he is more outlandish in his boyish tastes. He loves the rock band Metallica, keeps a metal skull on his desk and a personal trainer on call 24 hours and brags about all-night drinking binges in Las Vegas.
Once, Mr. Nicholas recalled, he tried to strip an investment banker at a winter conference in Utah and roll him in the snow because he thought the banker was too uptight. "I love to torture those guys," he said. And last New Year's Eve, he sponsored a battle of the bands at a party at his house in Laguna Hills, offering the best group a $2,000 grand prize. Why? He wanted to teach the bands a lesson. "I made it a competition because the world is competitive," he said.
But he caused the biggest stir on his 40th birthday last October when he invited MTV's band of the year, Orgy, to play at his home. Mr. Nicholas laughed when asked about the porn star who showed up at the party and the police officers who told him to turn the music down. Yes, they were there, he said. "We had a lot of beautiful women show up unattached." But it was not so funny when the party was reported in The Los Angeles Times and he got a call from his mother. "I mean, my mom read that stuff," he said recently, his sheepish grin fading.
Mr. Nicholas's wife, Stacey, a former electrical engineer to whom he has been married to for 13 years and has had three children with, said she had come to terms with his bad boy reputation.
"I trust his judgment," she said. Most recently, they spent three days with her college friends, river-rafting, Mr. Nicholas leaving the cell phone and attitude behind.
"People at Broadcom see the game face all the time," she said. "His favorite line is, 'Don't tell anyone. Don't let them know.' "
And how do his hijinks play in the investment community? "As far as I'm concerned if they put up the numbers, who cares what he does?" said Mr. Osha, the analyst.
Mr. Nicholas was born in Cincinnati in 1959. After his parents divorced in 1965, he moved with his mother to Malibu, Calif. He graduated from Santa Monica High School in 1977 and attended the United States Air Force Academy, in part to rebel against his liberal upbringing and the Southern California surf culture that shaped his teenage years. He quickly learned that Malibu's hang- 10 aesthetic was the exception in society, not the norm.
"Imagine my surprise when I realized that by rebelling I began to conform like everybody else," he said.
But when he learned he was too tall to fly fighter jets, he left the academy and enrolled at the University of California at Los Angeles, where he graduated with a degree in electrical engineering in 1981. That same year, he met Mr. Samueli at the military contractor TRW Inc., where they both worked. Later, Mr. Samueli went to teach in the engineering department at U.C.L.A., and Mr. Nicholas followed, becoming his first Ph.D. candidate and completing the degree in 1997.
The two men's lives are intertwined. While studying for his doctorate, Mr. Nicholas left TRW and, in 1988, became a founding consultant at PairGain Technologies, a maker of communications equipment, which Mr. Samueli co-founded with two other partners. But he wanted to run his own company, he said, so he started Broadcom in his bedroom in 1991. Mr. Samueli joined the company full-time four years later.
With business success has come celebrity -- if not notoriety. Mr. Nicholas is aware of the names he is called, some too profane to repeat. "People ask engineers all the time here, 'How could you work for that jerk?' " he said. But Mr. Nicholas says his behavior is often misunderstood, and his wildest antics are intended more to shock than to offend.
"I'm kind of a sarcastic guy," he said. "I love to engage people in conversations, like saying, maybe ritual human sacrifices are O.K."
Of course, he is joking. But "people will take me seriously," he said, "or they'll agree with me."
This he chalks up to his fabulous wealth; people are accepting of his outrageous behavior. "Wealth doesn't change people," he said. "It changes the way people treat you."
While he spends plenty on toys, Mr. Nicholas is also generous with charities. He likes theater and has donated millions to the South Coast Repertory and the Orange County Performing Arts Center. He also gave 10,000 Broadcom shares to the University of California at Irvine's intercollegiate athletic department, which was earmarked for the crew team, of which he was a member at U.C.L.A.
And having fun is as much a response to his grueling work schedule as it is making up for lost time. "I end up doing more extreme things because I have less of a life," he said. "I figure I pull an all-nighter for work. Why not do it for fun?" And if there is any doubt, consider his cross-country adventure in January. Mr. Nicholas had planned to fly a helicopter from Miami to California with the goal of gaining enough hours to earn his solo helicopter pilot license.
He had two distractions. First, he was fatigued. He had slept on the plane from Irvine to Miami the morning after his all-night New Year's Eve party. When he arrived in Miami that afternoon, he found himself "loading up on five cups of coffee" to stay alert.
He also had an investor meeting scheduled back in California for Jan. 3, which meant he had a little more than two days to complete the helicopter flight. The first day he left Miami late and spent the night in a small hotel in Tampa, Fla., mosquitoes buzzing in his ears. Still tired on the second day, he did not get as far as he had expected he would. So he ended the flight in Louisiana, calling for a jet to take him home, while the instructor flew the helicopter back to its hangar.
Looking back, he said his expectations were unrealistic and he should have allocated a week for the trip. Even simply recounting the incident still makes him visibly angry. "I really wanted to power through it," he said.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Henry T. Nicholas 3rd wants his company's chips to be at the heart of a digital universe. (Jill Connelly for The New York Times)(pg. C1); Henry T. Nicholas 3rd, left, and Henry Samueli started Broadcom in 1991. The company moved into offices in the Westwood section of Los Angeles in 1993, but headed south to Irvine, Calif., in Orange County, in 1995. (pg. C4)
 
Chart: "He Does It His Way"
General guidelines for work and life, by Broadcom's chief, Henry T. Nicholas 3rd:
 
Managing Time
I pull an all-nighter for work. Why not do it for fun?
 
Managing Money
What's nice is money doesn't matter because I've got a lot.
 
Managing Cars
I figure if I can't drive it and beat it up, I can't afford it.
 
Managing People I
I hate the word"empower."I feel like a Dilbert cartoon.
 
Managing People II
What do you do to keep employee morale up? You win. (pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Henry T. Nicholas 3rd"
BORN: Oct. 8, 1959, Cincinnati.
 
Hometown: Malibu, Calif.
 
Education: Santa Monica High School; United States Air Force Academy; B.S., U.C.L.A., 1981; M.S., electrical engineering, U.C.L.A., 1985; Ph.D., electrical engineering, U.C.L.A., 1997.
 
Career Highlights: Several senior positions including senior operations staff, TRW Corporation, 1981-88; founding director of micro-electronics, PairGain Technologies, 1988-91; co-founder, chief executive, Broadcom, 1991-present.

Family: Married to Stacey Nicholas; three children - two boys, one girl - ages 2-6.
 
Hobbies: Weight-training, running, skiing, biking, white-water rafting. (pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRCM (NASDAQ) (96%); INTC (NASDAQ) (92%); ALU (PAR) (60%); ALU (NYSE) (60%); ALU (BIT) (60%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (96%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (60%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (60%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (71%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: BROADCOM CORP BROADCOM CORP (96%); INTEL CORP (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (60%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (91%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BROADCOM CORP UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (91%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); UNITED STATES AIR FORCE ACADEMY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER CHIPS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MICROPROCESSORS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); ENGINEERING (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (86%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (83%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (83%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); WORKPLACE DRESS CODES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (73%); ELECTRONICS DESIGN (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); BROADBAND (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (69%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%); MODEMS (60%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (60%); VENTURE CAPITAL (52%); 

PERSON: HOLSON, LAURA M HENRY T NICHOLAS (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



658 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 886 words

HEADLINE: Vast Rally for Democracy Opens in a Polish Castle

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WARSAW, June 25

 BODY:
A gathering of just over one hundred nations that are either democracies or meet a loose definition of aspiring to be, opened here tonight in the splendor of this city's ancient royal castle. But the grit and sacrifice of modern democratic struggles were in the forefront of many delegates' minds.
The nations, representing various threads of democratic rule, assembled to issue a pledge to uphold basic democratic principles. They range from tiny Mali, the African country chosen as a model for a continent largely bereft of democratic ways, to India, the world's most populous democracy, to the United States, the prime mover of the conference. 
 The document they plan to issue, to be known as the Warsaw Declaration, will stipulate elements of democracy: free and fair elections; the rule of law; freedom of religion and the press; freedom from torture or arbitrary arrest and the right of opposition parties and trade unions to organize.
The organizers -- the United States, Poland, India, Mali, Portugal, South Korea and the Czech Republic -- say they hope that the declaration will gain the currency of the Helsinki Declaration of 1975. From a start fraught with skepticism, that declaration has helped move human rights from an internal matter for individual nations to a global issue.
Whether that goal will be realized here remained an open question. Unlike many international groupings, this group does not plan to establish any institutional machinery to monitor progress or penalize laggards.
Rather, organizing officials hope to form an assembly of the willing whose members will promote cooperation to strengthen democracy in places where it is struggling to grow or in danger of being extinguished. They also hope that the conference, which is to convene again in Seoul in 2002, will gain enough muscle that some of those excluded this time will try to make enough progress to be invited then.
In a symbolic gesture intended to set the tone, Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright spoke today in Gdansk, the birthplace of the Solidarity movement, which helped topple Communism in Poland and opened the way to a flourishing democracy.
"While democracy in the long run is the most stable form of government, in the short run, it is among the most fragile," Dr. Albright said in a speech at Gdansk University.
"Good democracies, like good neighbors, can help and strengthen each other by showing solidarity, sharing knowledge, and providing concrete assistance whether in good times or bad," she said.
The guest list for the conference, as well as the composition of the seven-member convening committee, has stirred as much interest as the content of the program -- involving about 70 foreign ministers.
American officials have gone out of their way to insist that the conference is not a made-in-America affair, although the plan was hatched by Morton H. Halperin, the State Department's chief of policy planning, and taken up with the Polish foreign minister, Bronislaw Geremek, at the NATO summit meeting in Washington last year.
Mr. Geremek, a dissident under Polish Communism, agreed that Poland would be the host.
The assistant secretary of state for human rights, Harold H. Koh, said that concocting the invitation list was something akin to organizing a large wedding with seven sets of parents.
But in the end, he said, "I'm not someone who believes that you judge the quality of the wedding by who is or is not attending."
Among those not invited were Iran, even though it recently held elections; the countries of Central Asia, although several have made progress toward freeing their economies; Taiwan, because it is not a member of the United Nations, and many countries of Southeast Asia.
There was never any question of inviting China or Saudi Arabia, the organizers said.
There was considerable discussion on Iran, but an official said it was excluded because of the current summary espionage trial of 13 Jews. Further, Iran remains on the State Department's list of nations that sponsor terrorism.
The conference drew some opposition from Russia, which took offense that China, Belarus and Serbia were excluded. The Russian foreign minister, Igor S. Ivanov, is staying away and will be represented by a relatively junior minister.
Among the well-established democracies, attitudes toward the conference have ranged from the relative enthusiasm of Foreign Minister Joschka Fischer of Germany to pained tolerance from France, Britain and Australia, organizing officials said. The British foreign secretary, Robin Cook, decided at the last moment to stay at home and monitor the election results in Zimbabwe, a former British colony that was not invited.
In Africa, Kenya, a country that the United States has traditionally supported, was included in the guest list despite widespread corruption and human rights abuses.
One purpose of the conference will be to discuss how to stop democracy from backsliding.
Austria, which is being ostracized by some European neighbors after including the rightist Freedom Party of Jorg Haider in the government, will be here. But officials said Austria may well be used as an example of how to support those within a society who work for democracy while showing displeasure with those who work against it. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); MALI (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI; POLAND; SOUTH KOREA; INDIA; PORTUGAL; CZECH REPUBLIC; WARSAW (POLAND); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (94%); MALI (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (93%); INDIA (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (56%); WARSAW, POLAND (93%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (70%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS POLITICS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (70%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (68%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); RELIGION (54%); 

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE BRONISLAW GEREMEK (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



659 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1879 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Town's Main Export: Its Young Men

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL 

DATELINE: FUZHOU, China, June 23

 BODY:
Ting Jiang, near here, is known locally as the "widow's village," a quiet former farming town whose dwindling population consists almost entirely of old people, children and women. Residents estimate that the town has lost more than 80 percent of its men between the ages of 20 and 40 in the last 10 years.
But don't weep for Ting Jiang. It is an unabashedly prosperous place, peppered with lavish multistory tile houses, some with elevators and pools. The kids wear Gap clothes. Cell phones are a standard accessory. And its widows are only widows in the Sunday football sense: Ting Jiang's missing men are still very much alive -- almost all working illegally in restaurants and on construction sites, thousands of miles away, in the United States. 
 Increasingly, their "widows" are following. "Of course I plan to go to join my husband," said a woman from Ting Jiang who gave only her family name, Shi. Ms. Shi calls her husband weekly at a phone number that begins with 904 -- a.k.a. northern Florida.
"We know exactly what life is like there," she said. "Sure, work is hard, but with tips you can make more than $2,000 a month." Here in Fujian Province, with casual labor, they can earn the equivalent of $40, she said, adding: "So no one in the village works before they go to America. There's no point."
Just days after the British authorities discovered the bodies of 58 Chinese who were being smuggled into England in the back of a tomato truck, the grisly news was all the talk in the towns around Fuzhou, home to some if not all of the dead.
But people here regarded it with the same mixture of sadness and disengagement that frequent fliers have when they hear of a plane crash. They may hesitate awhile, but they will go again. For places like Ting Jiang, the long, arduous and expensive journeys that hundreds of thousands of Chinese have undertaken to be smuggled to the West have generally proved a satisfying and sound economic investment.
And that despite a cost of up to $70,000 that must be paid to the smugglers -- called snakeheads -- who make the travel arrangements, and despite the tortuous emigration sagas, which at best involve flying through a series of countries with forged travel documents and at worst mean crossing borders on foot or packed in airless trucks, disguised as tomatoes.
"This is a calculated risk, like many others that rational people take," said a Western scholar, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the Chinese consider the issue of illegal immigration so sensitive. "People live in California even though there are earthquakes. Most of the Chinese do get through and are very successful, both in terms of sending money home and bringing more relatives over."
In fact there are relatively few attractive employment options in this seaside area of southern China, where most of China's recent illegal immigrants to the West come from.
Farming pays little. There is little local industry. The people have rural residency permits and cannot legally move to Chinese cities. Although millions of rural migrants live in cities like Shanghai and Beijing, they live on the fringes of society, working in the most menial jobs.
Moving to New York or Los Angeles is a better-tested strategy here, and certainly more rewarding. In fact, you could say that in places like Ting Jiang or Changle, a township near Fuzhou, emigration to the West is the local industry, which most men enter by the time they are 30.
Those who have the means pay for airplane travel, avoiding what are widely acknowledged to be the greater hazards and hardships of an overland or boat passage. Those who lack the means go anyway.
Chinese officials are cracking down on smuggling, and those who are caught are jailed or fined. And in the wake of the deaths in England, local officials here were aggressively detaining foreign reporters to avoid coverage of what they termed an embarrassing story.
Western embassies in China have highlighted the sufferings of illegal migration, but to little effect. "To be successful locally means you have to emigrate," the Western scholar said. "That is the local definition of success."
Ms. Shi estimates that in her generation alone, dozens from her extended family have gone illegally to the United States, including her husband and three of four siblings. The first one went in the late 1980's. Since then, those who are there have helped those who wanted to follow, lending money to pay for the passage, providing shelter and first jobs, setting up appointments with American immigration lawyers. It has only gotten easier.
Her oldest brother first tried in 1990, by paying a snakehead for overland passage via Europe. He was arrested in Austria and sent home again. His next attempt -- aboard the now infamous freighter Golden Venture, which ran aground off New York in June 1993 -- landed him in an Immigration and Naturalization Service prison for two years. He applied for asylum but ultimately gave up and went home to China.
Two years ago, Ms. Shi said, he took a package tour to Thailand, where he went AWOL as planned and met up with his snakehead. Traveling on false documents, he was flown to a third country and then, after two months, to the United States, where he now works in a restaurant.
Since then, Ms. Shi's older sister has also gone by plane. With ample financing from relatives in America, the family has now generally sworn off the most complicated routes and certainly boat travel, which they consider more dangerous.
A cousin overstayed a fake business visa (price, $50,000). Ms. Shi's 25-year-old brother, a university graduate, is hoping that the snakehead will provide him with a fake marriage to an American ($70,000).
The huge immigration flow that has sprinkled hundreds of thousands of Chinese across the United States and Europe is remarkably localized in its origin, with a vast majority of migrants coming from a small number of townships surrounding Fu zhou. Because of the distances involved, experts say, smuggling Fujianese has become a vast multinational business that some have described as immensely profitable. Prices are based on market principles, depending on the route chosen and local demand. For example, people here say passage to the United States (about $60,000) is more expensive than passage to England (about $45,000), which is in turn more expensive than passage to Hungary or Japan (about $12,000).
After more than a decade of development, certain towns have acquired self-perpetuating predilections for certain destinations.
In Fuqing the destination of choice is Japan. In Sanming it is Eastern and Central Europe, often Hungary, where a large Chinese community has taken root since the fall of Communism in Europe in 1989 loosened travel across the former Soviet bloc. And in the more prosperous areas of Changle and Ting Jiang, the United States is the end point.
The routes vary from snakehead to snakehead and month to month, depending on where the international smuggling rings can find safe havens and obtain the required counterfeit visas or passports.
Experts say passage to the United States often involves several stops, perhaps a three-month stint in Latin America before crossing over from Mexico, or a stay in Hong Kong or Guam, for example. Although nobody knows for sure, academics and residents of Fujian said grueling boat journeys are probably less common than other routes.
Experts say the worst abuses generally occur during slow periods, since some snakeheads then allow poor migrants to pay on credit plans that leave them deeply in debt or travel to new towns to recruit naive passengers.
But studies suggest that this is the exception. In a recently published book about Fujianese migrants, "Smuggled Chinese," Ko-Lin Chin of Rutgers University reported that a vast majority of the 300 people he studied had borrowed their passage fees from relatives at little or no interest. And 86 percent said they were having no trouble meeting their financial obligations.
While people here say there are certainly good and bad snakeheads, they generally regard them as honest businessmen providing a valuable service. They point out that most snakeheads collect the bulk of their fees once the migrants have safely arrived at their destination.
More important still, since a snakehead's business is through word of mouth, he will quickly go bankrupt if his human cargo is routinely intercepted or, worse, ends up dying in a truck of tomatoes.
 Reports from Fujian this weekend in the Hong Kong press said the snakehead who had organized the fatal trip to England had been forced to flee his hometown, his house stoned by angry locals.
The migrants are a mixed group of high- and middle-income Chinese, the poorest usually excluded by the high fees demanded by the traffickers. When they get to their destination, they either disappear into the vast local Fujianese community or -- if they are from wealthier families -- they may even find a lawyer to request political asylum.
"The women say they are fleeing China's family planning system," said one man, explaining that they may be forced to undergo sterilization if they have two sons, for example. He added that "another popular method is to say you're a member of Falun Gong and your family is being persecuted." China banned the Falun Gong spiritual group last summer and has arrested thousands of members who have refused to renounce its practices.
Although the illegal immigrants know that such attempts are generally unsuccessful, they often calculate bail fees into the cost of the journey to America and avoid potential jail time, people here said.
Also, the asylum process can last for years, allowing them time to establish roots in the West in the meantime. They get jobs, sometimes marry Americans and have babies -- who get American passports.
Towns like Ting Jiang are frequently home to such American-born babies, whose hard-working parents send them back to China to be raised by grandparents.
Plenty of money goes home too: by 1993, $30 million at the Changle branch of the Bank of China came from overseas, according to Professor Chin's book. Much of the money goes to building and decorating huge, elaborate family homes, as much status symbols as residences, since only one or two older family members are left in China to live there.
In the short term, life in the United States is terribly hard even for the more successful migrants, who tend to work long hours at low wage jobs to pay relatives back for their passage. As illegal immigrants, they live in fear, often afraid to enrol children in school or visit a hospital. Despite frequent phone calls, they are separated from families.
Ms. Shi's brother-in-law, who is only now applying for political asylum in Los Angeles, has not seen his teenage children since they were toddlers.
But with so many routes, and so many relatives already living abroad, people like Ms. Shi count on a bright future overseas, even though they cannot predict exactly when or how they will get there.
"I will probably go in two or three years, since my husband is up for asylum soon," said Ms. Shi. Then she shrugged, saying, "If that doesn't work, I'll find another way."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Large houses like these are springing up in rural areas surrounding Fuzhou, belonging to families with relatives in the United States. (Elisabeth Rosenthal/The New York Times)(pg. A8)
 
Map of China highlighting Fuzhou; Most illegal immigrants from China are from the area near Fuzhou. (pg. A8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); 

CITY: FUZHOU, CHINA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREAT BRITAIN; CHINA; FUZHOU (CHINA); DOVER (ENG); CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (79%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FUJIAN, CHINA (58%); FUZHOU, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; LABOR; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS SMUGGLING (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); IMMIGRATION (83%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (69%); REFUGEES (66%); TRENDS (60%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, ELISABETH TING JIANG (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



660 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 456 words

HEADLINE: For Lazio on Parade Day, Stump Is a Milking Stool

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: GETZVILLE, N.Y., June 25

 BODY:
After a tumultuous week, Representative Rick A. Lazio headed for comfortable ground in upstate New York today, expressing little regret over his decision not to attend the gay pride parade in Manhattan in favor of courting voters on a dairy farm north of Albany and at a chamber of commerce dinner in this town a few miles northeast of Buffalo.
While his Democratic opponent in the Senate race, Hillary Rodham Clinton, marched in the annual Gay and Lesbian Pride parade, Mr. Lazio admired farm animals and ate breakfast with scores of supporters as he toured a farm in West Charlton, in Saratoga County. 
 Mr. Lazio suggested he had missed the parade to hew to an ambitious schedule that calls for campaigning heavily upstate -- where political analysts believe the race could be won or lost -- while balancing the demands of his Congressional duties.
"You just have to make choices between a lot of invitations that you get," said Mr. Lazio, who said he had generally supported legislation backed by gay rights advocates, including financing for AIDS programs, though some describe his record as mixed.
Mr. Lazio had been criticized by Mrs. Clinton, gay rights advocates and even some Republicans last week for his decision to miss the parade, which organizers had hoped he would attend to demonstrate tolerance. Republicans nationwide have recently made overtures to the gay groups to affirm their support for diversity.
The parade controversy came during a week in which Mr. Lazio faced new attack ads by Mrs. Clinton and in which he confirmed that the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating whether his windfall profit three years ago in the stock of a company controlled by his campaign contributors had resulted from inside information.
Mr. Lazio soldiered on, however, and those issues came up only when they were raised by reporters at his two stops.
On his visit to the farm, Mr. Lazio highlighted his promise to search for ways to stabilize milk prices. He supports federal legislation to allow New York to join the Northeast Dairy Compact, a milk-price-fixing arrangement among six New England states that farmers say will bring them more money.
"The value of being here is gaining an understanding of the issues that affect farmers, dairy farmers in particular," Mr. Lazio said.
Later, he attended the Amherst Chamber of Commerce reception in Getzville.
As he often does when campaigning upstate, he spoke of the need to fight for low taxes and focus on economic development programs that would spread prosperity throughout New York.
Mr. Lazio suggested that his duties in Washington, in which he has sought to be present for most votes but has missed some, left him at a disadvantage.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rick A. Lazio drank a glass of milk yesterday with Saratoga County's dairy princess, Ami Thomas, left, and her alternate, Mitzy Hasbun. Mr. Lazio was visiting a farm in West Charlton. (Will Waldron for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US); NORTHEAST DAIRY COMPACT

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); NORTHEAST DAIRY COMPACT

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; SARATOGA COUNTY (NY); NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MILK; ELECTION ISSUES; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PARADES & MARCHES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); DAIRY FARMING (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); MILK (77%); LGBT RIGHTS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); POLITICS (77%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); FOOD PRICES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); AIDS & HIV (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ANIMALS (72%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



661 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: Energy Cooperative to Offer Customers 'Green' Electricity

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn., June 24

 BODY:
Creating the energy industry's equivalent of an organic food store, a Connecticut company is to announce Monday that it will begin selling what it calls "green" electricity, generated not from oil or nuclear reactors, but from renewable sources like wind, water and methane gas captured from garbage dumps.
Naturally, it will be more expensive -- about $5 to $6 more a month. But the company, the Connecticut Energy Cooperative, is betting that some customers will be willing to pay a premium for it. Those who do not mind fossil fuels can still buy traditional power. 
 The cooperative plans to begin offering the service on July 1, the day that state legislation deregulating the electricity industry takes full effect. Green power will be available in most parts of the state, including most of Fairfield County. The cooperative, which also sells oil, natural gas and propane and long-distance telephone service, is like a food co-op, operating nonprofit to reduce prices for its members, both homeowners and businesses.
State Representative Bob Maddox, who is leaving the Legislature after this year to work for the co-op full time as its director of marketing, said he thought people would gladly pay more for the green energy "for their own health," reducing pollution.
"The monthly pricing difference for the average family in Connecticut will be about the same as the cost of a Big Mac with super-size fries and a Coke," said Mr. Maddox, a Republican from Litchfield County, who lives in a solar-powered home in Bethlehem and drives a Honda Insight, a gas-electric hybrid car that gets up to 70 miles per gallon.
Green electricity is already available in parts of California, Pennsylvania and New Jersey, but not New York State. In New Jersey, it is sold by two companies, Connectiv Power Delivery and Green Mountain Energy.
The cooperative's electricity will come from wind in upstate New York, landfill gases in New Hampshire and small hydroelectric plants in Connecticut. The co-op will also sell non-green electricity at prices Mr. Maddox says will be lower than rates charged by Connecticut Power and Light and United Illuminating.
As with organic food, the motives of providers of clean energy can be both environmental and political. Although hydropower is green energy, the co-op will not do business with Hydro-Quebec, the large government-owned utility in Canada, which has been criticized by environmentalists. Hydro-Quebec, which has long called such criticism unwarranted, backed off from its most controversial project, called Great Whale, in 1994. Critics said the project would have flooded Indian tribal lands in Canada and destroyed subarctic wilderness.
Whatever their reasons for choosing green energy, customers who want it will simply be able to call the co-op or visit its Web site, www.energyforme.com. Customers who sign up will not necessarily have green energy going through the outlets in their homes; rather, they are paying to increase the amount of renewable energy on the local power grid, proportional to their monthly usage.
Because customers have no way of knowing what kind of electricity they are paying for, many companies offering green power, including the Connecticut cooperative, have joined the Green-e Renewable Electricity Certification Program, run by the Center for Resource Solutions, an environmental group in San Francisco.
To be certified, power providers must disclose their sources of energy and demonstrate that at least 50 percent of the supply comes from renewable sources.
Ashok Gupta, an economist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, said a cooperative selling both green and traditional energy is "like a cereal company offering healthy cereal and not-so-healthy cereal."
"It's a great thing," he said. "It gives people choices. Avoid coal, nuclear and Hydro-Quebec, and buy green power." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (90%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (66%); 

COMPANY: CONNECTICUT ENERGY COOPERATIVE HYDRO-QUEBEC (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT ENERGY COOPERATIVE

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (97%); CANADA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); QUEBEC, CANADA (66%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; METHANE; WATER; WIND ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (92%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (91%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); NATURAL GAS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ORGANIC FOODS INDUSTRY (90%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (89%); ORGANIC FOODS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); METHANE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); PROPANE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); MARINE MAMMALS (77%); LANDFILLS (77%); LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (77%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (73%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (64%); HYBRID VEHICLES (64%); POWER PLANTS (58%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (53%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



662 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1018 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore to Unveil A Plan to Foster Cleaner Energy

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Under fire from Republicans who say he has no energy plan, Vice President Al Gore will propose on Tuesday an array of economic incentives to encourage cleaner technologies intended to reduce the nation's dependency on foreign oil, aides said today.
The aides said Mr. Gore would call for billions of dollars in tax breaks, low-interest loans, grants and other federal subsidies to encourage consumers to buy clean-energy products, like alternative-fuel cars or solar houses, and to encourage companies to develop sources of energy that do not burn oil. 
 In recent days, Mr. Gore has come under sharp attack by his likely Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, for having supported higher gas taxes in the past. Mr. Bush has also accused the Clinton administration of idly allowing gasoline prices to rise steeply this summer. Prices at the pump have soared nationwide, rising as much as 50 cents a gallon in parts of the Midwest, an important battleground region in the presidential race.
Mr. Gore's advisers counter that they can turn the issue to their advantage by portraying Mr. Bush, a former executive with a small oil company, as a pawn of big oil producers whose profits have risen sharply over the last year. Mr. Gore's aides say they are planning an offensive this week in which surrogates will attack Mr. Bush's ties to the oil industry while the vice president focuses on a more positive message.
o In an early taste of those attacks, Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, said today on "Fox News Sunday," "It seems to me what Mr. Bush and what the Republicans are saying and the oil companies are saying is that their answer to the crisis is to keep their profits up."
Mr. Gore had planned to devote this week to discussing the environment in his three-week "progress and prosperity" tour. But with gasoline prices dominating the news in the Midwest, he has chosen to shift gears somewhat and focus his message as much on reducing oil prices and consumption as on cleaning up the environment.
Mr. Gore's aides declined to provide specifics on the cost of the plan. They said the vice president would propose setting aside part of the federal surplus in a protected "environmental trust fund" that would pay for the proposals.
The aides acknowledged that Mr. Gore's new proposals would have little short-term effect on oil prices. But they noted that he had already called for having the Federal Trade Commission investigate possible price gouging by the oil industry and had urged the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase production.
Under the plan that the aides said Mr. Gore would unveil this week, he would provide tax breaks to encourage consumers and small-business owners to buy houses, cars, hot-water heaters and other products that were energy efficient. His aides said the plan would expand on a similar proposal by President Clinton that would cost $9 billion over 10 years.
Mr. Gore would also propose federal subsidies to help utility companies upgrade or replace coal-fired power plants that are the source of much of the air pollution that causes acid rain and smog along the Eastern seaboard, the aides said.
In addition, they said, the plan would call for expanding federal spending on mass transit and having the federal government help underwrite investments in cleaner, energy-efficient technologies.
Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for Mr. Bush, said of Mr. Gore's proposals, "After eight years of weak leadership on energy issues, Al Gore is proposing nothing new." He added, "One thing that is consistent is Al Gore's longtime support of higher gas prices."
In 1993, Mr. Gore cast the tie-breaking vote in the Senate for the administration's economic stimulus plan, which was intended to reduce the budget deficit by cutting spending and raising some taxes, including taxes on gasoline. Some Republicans in Congress are now calling for suspending all or part of that federal gasoline tax.
Governor Bush has tried to use Mr. Gore's writings to accuse him of wanting to increase gasoline taxes as a means of discouraging consumption. Last week, Mr. Bush read a passage from Mr. Gore's 1992 book "Earth in the Balance" that described "higher taxes on fossil fuels" as "one of the logical first steps in changing our policies in a manner consistent with a more responsible approach to the environment."
But Mr. Gore's aides say that the Republicans have willfully misread "Earth in the Balance." The book proposed taxing companies that emit carbon dioxide, a byproduct of burning fossil fuels that is also a significant component of smog. But Mr. Gore also proposed reducing payroll taxes for those companies so that they would not have to increase prices to consumers.
In turn, the Gore campaign has circulated copies of a 1992 letter from Mr. Bush warning that his father, President George Bush, who was then seeking re-election, might lose support in some oil-producing states because he "is viewed as favoring cheap energy." Mr. Gore's aides contend the letter demonstrates that Governor Bush is more concerned about protecting oil companies' profits than reducing retail prices.
Mr. Bartlett said today that Governor Bush was simply urging his father's administration to support a tax break for small, independent oil companies that could help them increase production. He said that Mr. Gore, then a senator from Tennessee, also supported that tax break.
During Mr. Gore's swing through Pennsylvania, Ohio and parts of the Midwest this week, the aides said, he will argue that cleaning up the environment could help the economy, rather than hinder it.
The aides said that the vice president would assert, for instance, that American companies could reap large profits from selling products that help clean the environment to developing nations. And, the aides said, he would argue that American consumers were "ravenous" for products that were cleaner and more energy efficient.
"The environment and the economy are really one and the same thing," Mr. Gore said to a group of Democrats in Miami on Saturday night.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 2000, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about Vice President Al Gore's plan to encourage consumers to buy clean-energy products misstated the environmental impact of carbon dioxide. It is a heat-trapping gas associated with global warming, not a component of smog.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore commemorated the 50th anniversary of the start of the Korean War yesterday at Arlington National Cemetery. (Associated Press)(pg. A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FOX (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (66%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ELECTION ISSUES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ENERGY AND POWER; TAX CREDITS; AIR POLLUTION; CREDIT; TAXATION TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CARTELS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (66%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); DAO, JAMES; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM HARKIN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



663 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Grab That Third Rail

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Today workers outnumber retirees and the workers' taxes pay the retirees' benefits. But tomorrow, when retirees far outnumber workers, the Social Security system will need infusions from Treasury or a tax increase to pay benefits.
 
 Thus, the central domestic issue of the 2000 presidential campaign seems to boil down to this: What do we do now to make sure government will help support tomorrow's old folks?
 But boil it down further: Who will be an old folk? The answer to that unasked question is the key to what alarmists label "saving Social Security."
 Give both George Bush and Al Gore credit for daring to touch what used to be called "the third rail of American politics." Their differing approaches offer voters a clear political choice unrelated to personality.
 Bush's plan calls for taking one-sixth of the present payroll tax and allowing workers to invest it in mutual funds in individual accounts. The intent is to get a return on that investment that is higher than the present rate; that equity growth would supplement the Social Security benefit decades from now.
 Gore found he could not get away with labeling that "a risky scheme" because more than half of Americans are now stock market investors and know that in the long run, broad indexes do better than risk-free bonds.
 That drove him to come up with his own plan to supplement Social Security with an individual savings account for low-income workers. Gore would have government encourage them to save a little each year by adding matching funds, similar to the corporate match of 401(k) plans. For the lowest-income worker, government would add three dollars for every one saved.
 As you would expect, economists for both candidates are busily trashing the other guy's plan. Bush's conservative team derides the Gore plan as another government handout to redistribute income, while Gore's liberal advocates downmouth the Bush proposal as a dire threat to future Social Security benefits.
 Far be it from me to appear even-handed, but if the economy continues to generate trillions in surpluses - that is, if the good times roll on and on as far as the eye can squint - there is merit in both approaches. Let Bush's middle-class workers get the benefit of long-range stock growth, and let Gore's working poor have their sayings enhanced; that way, everybody's nest egg would be tax-deferred to allow the buildup of different degrees of financial security for all.
 Such a consensus is forming. But this nagging doubt remains: What if the good times don't continuously roll? What if we are as mistaken about eternal surpluses as we so recently were about eternal deficits?
 This is where the need appears to define on "old folk." In 1935, when Social Security was luanched, life expectancy was in the mid-sixties. Pegging the retirement age at 65 was shrewd; it meant that not too many people would live to collect benefits for long.
 But now American life expectancy is nearing the mid-seventies. That blessing means that more of us will be around many more years collecting our benefits. The system was not built for such good news.
 Here's the message deemed too third-railly to touch: if we want to maintain Social Security benefits without raising taxes or raiding the Treasury, we are going to have to index retirement age to longevity.
 Not for workers about to retire; that would be denying legitimate expectations. But a worker now under 50 should be assured of full benefits when he retires at 72, or if great advances are made in curing heart disease and cancer, older than that.
 What about the desire of many, after a lifetime of hard work, to go fishing or just loaf around? Brain scientists tell us that's the road to degeneration and dulling of senses. Instead of early retirement, workers should be planning second careers, corporate executives creating plans to better utilize older workers, politicians thinking of incentives to keep workers' minds and bodies active and productive.
 As our lives inexorably lengthen, the way not to lose our marbles is to keep using them. Indexing the retirement age to longevity will help ensure financial security with mental acuity. It has to be part of the reform mix. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL SECURITY (US); ELECTION ISSUES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000 CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POLITICS (74%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); CORPORATE TAX (73%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (70%); MATCHING GIFTS (57%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); SAFIRE, WILLIAM AL GORE (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



664 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 26, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1821 words

HEADLINE: Booming Economy Helping California Improve Its Schools

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, June 25

 BODY:
California is used to defining national notions of biggest and best: It has the most people, the longest coastline and the tallest mountain, Mount Whitney in the majestic High Sierra, in the 48 contiguous states. But when it comes to public education, California has been more like another of its famous landmarks: Death Valley, the lowest spot in the United States.
Depending on who is doing the counting, and how, California in recent years has ranked about 40th in spending per pupil, only slightly better in its high school graduation rate, and last in students per teacher, students per principal, students per librarian and students per guidance counselor. When the state's high cost of living is factored into spending per pupil, California fares even worse, ranking with poor states like Mississippi. 
 But with the state's budget flush in a booming economy, schools are getting some long overdue help. In the past two years, Gov. Gray Davis has added about $7 billion for elementary and secondary education, an increase of about 20 percent. The state has also begun ambitious programs to recruit and retain teachers, with tax credits and home loans.
And school districts have turned to noneducators like former Gov. Roy Romer of Colorado, who has agreed to lead the Los Angeles system, in an effort to bring political savvy to the task of replacing and repairing crowded schools.
But in reality, California, a rich state that helped lead the post-Sputnik push for public education in the 1960's, has fallen so far behind that even six straight years of spending increases have left the latest generation of state officials and union leaders struggling to meet what would seem a modest goal: the national average in spending per pupil of roughly $6,600. And many experts have warned that little has also been done to insulate California's public schools, which are unusually dependent on state revenues, against economic downturns.
"The schools have been starved for at least a quarter of a century," Mr. Davis acknowledged in an interview. "I expect that we can right the ship and point it in a new direction. But this is a multiyear effort that will extend well beyond my governorship."
Indeed, it was Mr. Davis's Republican predecessor, Pete Wilson, who began the turnaround, fighting for smaller class sizes and new student achievement tests (though the smaller classes resulted in the hiring of a flood of uncredentialed teachers).
Recent polls have consistently shown that residents rank the quality of public education as the biggest problem facing California. But conditions in some schools have remained so bad that civil rights groups filed a lawsuit in state court last month contending that the disparities violated the state constitutional guarantee of free and equal public education for all.
The problems include textbooks that refer to the Soviet Union in the present tense, crumbling toilets and teachers who show horror movies in class.
Just this month, one Los Angeles school reported that the American flags in several classrooms still had 48 stars.
The origins of the decline are complex and much debated. But one reality stands out: Since Proposition 13 limited local property tax rates in 1978 and shifted principal responsibility for school finance to the state, California's system has become vulnerable to swings in the economy.
In addition, a landmark court decision that required rough parity in spending among districts had the effect of lowering the overall average, not increasing it, and education spending as a share of the state's personal income shrank dramatically.
Like his Republican predecessors, Mr. Davis has been unwilling to press for broad tax increases or changes in the property tax system from an electorate that complains about education but seems unwilling to pay to improve it.
A statewide survey in February by the Public Policy Institute of California, a nonpartisan research group, found that a majority of Californians knew the state ranked below average in education spending, and three-quarters of those surveyed said they would support a ballot measure to reach the national average. But when told state officials estimated that such a measure could result in annual tax increases of $4 billion by 2005, fewer than 6 in 10 voters still said they supported the measure.
Similarly, while another survey by the institute found that a majority of Californians thought the quality of education was a big problem, and nearly 4 in 10 thought the schools had gotten worse, a ballot measure that would have let a simply majority approve local school bonds narrowly failed in March.
"It's really clear that people sense there's a problem, and they'd like to see something done about it," said Mark Baldassare, the institute's survey director and the author of "California in the New Millennium: The Changing Social and Political Landscape" (University of California Press, 2000). "But many Californians are not comfortable with the idea of providing additional resources in terms of their own tax dollars. This has been a constant theme for the past 20 years now: a recognition that our institutions don't have the resources they need, but an unwillingness on the part of many voters to see themselves as part of the solution."
A group of Silicon Valley executives, with Mr. Davis and Mr. Wilson, are leading the charge for a ballot measure this fall that would lower the threshold for approving local bond issues to 55 percent of the vote from the current 66 percent.
The state's largest teachers union, mollified by Mr. Davis's spending proposals, has dropped its plan for a ballot referendum that would have forced California to reach the national spending average on education, a goal that the union's president now says is not much to celebrate in any case.
"If California, the seventh-largest economy in the world, has national average funding, that isn't so great, because there are 16 industrialized countries, and the United States ranks 14th in the funding of K-12 schools," said Wayne Johnson, president of the 500,000-member California Teachers Association. "Being average is no great shakes, but people are acting as if that's the panacea."
Calculating that average, and comparing California's standing, is complicated, because the most recent statistics, based on actual spending compiled by the National Education Association, are for the 1997-98 school year, when California ranked 40th, with per-pupil spending of $5,627, compared with the national average of $6,638.
There are disputes about whether the California figures fully reflect all sources of spending, but Davis administration officials have estimated that California's spending is now at least $6,672, though other states have also increased spending so the national average, when recalculated, would presumably rise.
And education experts note that per-pupil spending alone is not necessarily a reliable indicator of quality, pointing to the District of Columbia, which has relatively high spending per pupil but deeply troubled schools.
It is perhaps more revealing that California ranks poorly in a range of ways, from students per computer to students per teacher. In 1997, California ranked 14th in the nation with a per capita personal income of $26,218, for example, while ranking 45th in education expenditures per $1,000 of personal income, with $34 of every $1,000 going toward public education, compared with $45 in New Jersey and $44 in New York.
"All these problems are at least indirectly related to money, and the shortage of money over a sequence of decades," said Barbara Miller, research director of Ed Source, a nonpartisan research group that tracks education issues in California. "It hasn't been a sudden change. Instead, it's been a steady drift, as money was tight and districts sought to make the cuts as far away from the classroom as possible and things like maintenance were virtually forgotten. Then class sizes grew, fewer computers were purchased and on and on."
Because teachers' unions have remained politically powerful, teachers' salaries here have absorbed a significant share of spending increases over the last two decades, and have remained relatively high. But the state is struggling to attract and retain teachers and is facing a projected shortage of perhaps 300,000.
Mr. Davis, the first Democratic governor since Jerry Brown in the mid-1970's, made it clear that he intended to devote the biggest share of the state's current budget surpluses to education. He went so far as to propose exempting teachers from the state's income tax, an idea rejected by legislative leaders in favor of a smaller tax credit.
But the governor has said he has no plans to seek any broad tax increases. And despite his opposition to Proposition 13 when it passed, and his continued skepticism about it, he has no plans to tinker with the measure's 1 percent limit on local property tax rates, which cut local property tax revenues for education in half.
Bill Carrick, a Democratic consultant here, said Mr. Davis was "a genuine bean-counter."
"His politics are defined by his experience as Jerry's chief of staff when Proposition 13 was passed, and he will do anything he can to avoid having to raise taxes," Mr. Carrick said. "I also think philosophically he doesn't like these straitjacket fiscal formulas, like promising to reach a certain spending level by a certain date."
As it is, under another ballot measure, Proposition 98, about 40 percent of the state's general fund spending is reserved for education, and much of that is already parceled out for several specified programs, like special education, and is not available for basic expenses like maintenance. And because California's school finance system, almost alone among the states, is controlled by the state, it is highly dependent on economically driven shifts in personal income tax receipts, and localities are relatively powerless to use the more stable property tax to make improvements on their own.
But Mr. Davis points to the effort to lower the approval threshold for local school bonds as an example of a structural change he is fighting for.
"This is a very tall order, and people are not anxious in this state to spend more money," he said, "but I believe if we run a really good campaign, we can pull this off. That's a structural change that presumably will allow local communities to make a decision to take unto themselves more bonded indebtedness."
Some experts remain skeptical.
"They haven't restructured the finance system in any significant way," said Michael W. Kirst, a former president of the State Board of Education and now a professor of education at Stanford University. "They have just taken the existing system and gotten more because of the flush times. But there is nothing to protect us from the next recession."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Monday about how the booming economy is helping California improve the national ranking of its schools misstated the size ranking of California's coastline (in a reference to how the state compares to other states). Its coastline is the second longest among the 48 contiguous states, not the longest. Florida's is the longest.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Classrooms at a school in Los Angeles that is part of a lawsuit to require the state to improve conditions.; In the last two years, Gov. Gray Davis of California has added $7 billion for education, an increase of about 20 percent. Students relaxed on the playground during a break at a Los Angeles high school. (Photographs by Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); ; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LABOR; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ACADEMIC TESTING (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); STUDENT TEACHER RATIO (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); TEACHER RECRUITMENT & HIRING (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (75%); COST OF LIVING (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GRADUATION RATES (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); TRENDS (72%); TEXTBOOKS (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (70%); EMPLOYEE TURNOVER & RETENTION (66%); TAX LAW (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (65%); LABOR UNIONS (63%); LITIGATION (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, GRAY (GOV); ROMER, ROY; PURDUM, TODD S ROY R ROMER (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2000



665 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: At Democracy's Picnic, Paris Supplies Ants

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WARSAW, June 26

 BODY:
France offered an antidote today to some of the celebratory tone of the conference on democracy here that was spearheaded by the United States, saying that imposing democracy on a country could have the opposite result.
Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine of France cited Fidel Castro and Saddam Hussein as examples of authoritarian leaders who had only been reinforced either by military force or economic sanctions. 
 Further, he contended, while President Carter clearly did not intend to bring about the Islamic revolution in Iran, his policies had essentially helped bring about that result.
Morton H. Halperin, chief of policy planning at the State Department, parried Mr. Vedrine's statements, saying that the conference was not about the "export" of democracy but about enabling countries that had "chosen" democracy to help one another.
Mr. Vedrine spoke to the gathering in the chamber of the Polish Parliament after opening remarks by the host, Foreign Minister Bronislaw Geremek. Mr. Vedrine then went out of his way to brief American reporters on his thoughts about democracy and how his philosophy on democracy differed from what he saw as the themes for the conference.
He was careful not to attack the particulars of the conference, saying he had nothing to do with its organization and had come at the express request of his friend, Mr. Geremek. He did not mention Secretary of State Madeleine K. Albright, whose conference this essentially is and who is seeking to make the theme of democracy the lodestar of her tenure.
Instead of lending itself to easy converts, perhaps like religion, he said, democracy is "always a process of evolution." And, he said, it overwhelmingly involves long maturing internal processes within nations such as in economics, the collective state of mind and -- in the end -- politics.
Definitions aside, the French foreign minister appeared vexed about the appearance that developed democracies are lecturing others. Nobody, he suggested, has a magic formula for "transforming Russia into a huge Finland, or China into a huge South Korea."
"Let's not be self-congratulatory," Mr. Vedrine added. "Our democracies still have room for improvement." He singled out the role of money in influencing policy in developed democracies as "terrifying" and bemoaned the apathy of citizens.
Representatives from more than 100 countries, including foreign ministers from many of them, are meeting here under the rubric "Toward a Community of Democracies." The notion is to encourage deeper democracy in the world by having countries commit themselves to a set of principles laid out in what is being called the Warsaw Declaration.
American officials have argued during the last few days that while the number of countries with democratic attributes has vastly increased -- by their count from 30 to 120 since 1974 -- much needs to be done to consolidate democratic gains in the weakest nations and stop backsliding in others.
Countries that were judged by a seven-nation vetting committee to be at least aspiring to democratic standards were invited.
The conference, whose formal sessions began today and will close Tuesday, is split into two entities: speeches and panels at the Parliament for government leaders and a parallel gathering of nongovernmental organizations in a building across town.
Two prominent groups, the Washington-based Freedom House, and the Stefan Batory Foundation, which was founded in Poland by the financier George Soros, were asked by the State Department to organize the parallel meeting, featuring speeches by human rights figures from around the world.
State Department officials called the parallel meeting the World Forum on Democracy, seeming to echo the title of the annual conference at Davos, Switzerland, the World Economic Forum. And they said they hoped that the forum would take on a life of its own and become the equivalent of a "Davos of Democracy." Leaders of some groups grumbled today that they found the comparison demeaning since they had been working on building democracy at the grass-roots level for many years.
One of the emerging themes of the discussions today was the issue of national sovereignty, raised most frontally by Mr. Vedrine but also by others, who took a different approach.
In a moving appeal on video, smuggled out of Burma and shown to the foreign ministers this morning, the Burmese dissident Daw Aung San Suu Kyi urged "the peoples of the free world to work harder toward bringing true democratic progress everywhere."
She was not specific about what kind of action she wanted from the outside world, but she hinted that some kind of intervention was necessary. "Words need to be backed up by action that is united and that is focused on essentials," she said.
In one of his speeches, Mr. Geremek said that in "normal situations" there should be no collision between sovereignty on the one hand and human rights and democracy on the other. Nor, he said, did he anticipate that globalization would abolish the idea of the nation state.
But in "exceptional situations," which are "not in fact so very exceptional," he said, human rights and democracy take precedence. One such example is when the state, instead of protecting its citizens, becomes a threat to them. In this and some other cases, the international community cannot stand by and watch, he said, and must say, "It's human rights, stupid."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; WARSAW (POLAND); FRANCE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); WARSAW, POLAND (93%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); POLITICS (76%); RELIGION (71%); 

PERSON: HALPERIN, MORTON H; PERLEZ, JANE; VEDRINE, HUBERT (MIN) FIDEL CASTRO (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



666 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Altered States

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
The State Department's decision to no longer use the term "rogue states" to describe the likes of Libya, North Korea or Iran, but to refer to them instead as "states of concern," was one of those policy moves that is easy to ridicule. In fact, let's do that for a moment.
I travel to some of these places and I can't imagine calling home and having my wife ask me, as she often does, "Where are you?" and I answer, "Honey, I'm in a state of concern." That's really going to cause problems. Couldn't we do something more politically correct, like referring to the North Koreas and Iraqs as states that are "legally challenged" or "states in need of Ritalin"? 
 Kidding aside, there is a serious issue behind the State Department's move. On the one hand, it makes sense that we stop calling these countries rogue states, because such blanket categorization can obscure our own thinking and thus our ability to adapt policy and respond to changes.
But on the other hand, categorizing them as "states of concern" doesn't solve all our problems. It implies that there are "states of concern" and everybody else is basically on the right track -- and that is not the case.
You see, there are basically two broad trends in the world today. One, which the State Department has captured, is that due largely to the pressures of globalization, rogue states increasingly do not want to, or can't afford to, remain rogues any longer, and are reaching out.
But due to the same pressures, many new or old democracies are no longer able to remain democracies either -- and this is just as big a concern. I would call these ailing democracies "states of flux," which could turn into "states of despair" or even "states of rage."
Let's look at them all. It is not surprising that the State Department would want to redefine rogue states, because at least some of the rogues are looking to go straight. During the cold war, rogues had more fun. Being a rogue state was a growth industry, because the Soviet Union or China were always there to buy your rogue junk, rebuild your rogue army and subsidize your roguish life style.
But with the collapse of the Soviet Union, and China going from Mao to Merrill Lynch, there is no more superpower to subsidize a roguish life style. Countries that want to grow today have to turn to the supermarkets -- the big global financial markets -- and they not only won't subsidize roguish behavior, they will punish countries for roguish behavior by withholding money to grow.
That's why rogue states wanting to remain rogue states today have to be able to either generate their own income -- with oil, drugs or diamonds -- or be able to terrorize and isolate their people so efficiently that they have no choice but to suffer in silence. But as internal changes in Iran, Syria, North Korea and Cuba all demonstrate, even the most isolated, ideological rogues are finding it harder and harder to go it alone.
So all of these rogue leaders are trying to reach out and open up -- but without giving up power or totally going straight. "All these states realize that gradually opening up their countries and engaging in the global economy is their only answer, but a soft landing for their societies means a hard landing for their regimes," says the Wilson Center's Robert Litwak, author of "Rogue States and U.S. Foreign Policy."
So we are now entering a period in which all these rogue regimes (and China) are going to try to bring their hard states in for soft landings, but without giving up power, and that is going to spark a lot of infighting, backsliding and civil wars.
But these same pressures on countries to open up, get up to speed for globalization and build institutions that are squeezing the rogues are also threatening to turn some old and new democracies -- Pakistan, Indonesia, Venezuela, Colombia, Nigeria, Peru and maybe Russia -- into new rogues. These are the "states of flux" -- countries that opted for democracy, but have been so swamped by corruption and overwhelmed by the difficulties of state-building that their democracies are increasingly imperiled or virtually dead.
The danger is that these states of flux will turn into states of despair (Sierra Leone or Liberia) -- literally failed states. And, if more and more democracies fill that category, it could turn out to be our biggest concern of all. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (51%); MER (NYSE) (51%); 8675 (TSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (51%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (51%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (51%); 

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (51%); STATE DEPARTMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT STATE DEPARTMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); COLD WAR (65%); TERRORISM (59%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



667 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: World Bank Criticizes Itself Over Chinese Project Near Tibet

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
In a scathing internal assessment, a World Bank inquiry has found that the bank violated its rules when it approved a Chinese antipoverty plan that would involve relocating 58,000 farmers on the edge of Tibet.
The project raised a storm of protest last year from environmental and human rights groups. Those groups contended that the bank was aiding China's effort to dilute the minority Tibetan population, which the Communist leadership has long regarded as a problem. 
 Under the bank plan, $40 million would be spent to relocate some of China's poorest farmers to more fertile land, just outside the Tibet boundary. A result would be to put ethnic Han Chinese farmers into Qinghai, territory that Tibetans consider part of their homeland.
The Dalai Lama, the exiled spiritual leader of Tibet who was born in the resettlement region, met President Clinton last week. After the meeting, he said that the bank initiative "would be a source of more problems" and that the project should not proceed for the present.
But the arguments have expanded beyond questions of Tibet, becoming a test of whether the bank is sufficiently sensitive to the political and social ramifications of its projects.
In this case, the project pitted James D. Wolfensohn, the politically savvy president of the bank, against the Clinton administration, which recently reappointed him to his post while declaring its opposition to the China project.
Mr. Wolfensohn suspended part of the project last year and referred the case to the internal "inspection panel," after the United States, Germany and a few other nations had contended that the entire program had been mishandled within the bank.
The bank had planned to release the results of its harshly worded report last week, but decided against that at the last moment. A copy of the 160-page document was provided today to The New York Times by sources hostile to the project.
The report refers repeatedly to "confusion" within the bank staff, which seemed unable to agree on what standards to use in judging the project's effects. The report also describes a "disturbingly wide range of divergent and, often, opposing views" on how the bank should interpret its policies on environmental and social issues.
The study suggested, without quite saying, that the bank had bent its rules to accommodate China's leaders, who wanted to borrow millions of dollars interest-free for the project under a program for underdeveloped nations. The project was approved last year just days before China's eligibility for the loans permanently expired because of its rapid growth.
This is not the first time that the bank has been accused of ignoring its rules to bend to the wishes of a major customer. Another internal report, more than a year ago, found that the bank had overlooked the corruption of President Suharto's regime in Indonesia, another major client.
The most critical element of the new report was its finding that the bank had never seriously considered alternative locations for the farmers, sites that would not raise the sensitive questions of whether the bank was helping China dilute the concentration of Tibetans in the region.
The report prompted a sharp response from Mr. Wolfensohn in a private letter to board members. He argued that the guidelines for assessing projects like this one were not hard and fast. The inspection panel, he wrote, is trying to "push the bank in the direction of a literal and mechanistic interpretation of its rules."
Although administration officials view the report as vindicating their views, bank officials said the heavy-handed criticism sounded similar to complaints by charity and activist groups. "The panel is out to change the bank and this was a stalking horse," a bank official said.
The board is to decide on July 6 on a 15-month $2 million study on the environmental and ethnic effects of the resettlement.
The bank's spokesman for Asia, Peter L. Stephens, said the panel had made valid observations about the resettlement plan. He said bank officials now agreed that they should have classified the project as requiring more environmental scrutiny than they did originally. Bank officials also did an arguably poor job on the ethnic effects, Mr. Stephens said.
"There were clearly areas in the surveys that did not give confidence that the results were reliable," he said. "These were judgment calls, and they made some errors."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS (93%); 

COUNTRY: TIBET (96%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: XIZANG, CHINA (95%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT WORLD BANK (93%); INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION AND DEVELOPMENT INTERNATIONAL BANK FOR RECONSTRUCTION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; TIBET; TIBET (96%); CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDONESIA (79%); GERMANY (54%); XIZANG, CHINA (95%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (94%); NORTHWEST CHINA (79%); QINGHAI, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FARMERS INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (92%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); CORRUPTION (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; KAHN, JOSEPH BILL CLINTON (71%); DALAI LAMA (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



668 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: Fed Unlikely to Raise Rates Now, Analysts Say

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
After a period of rip-roaring growth that fueled fears of inflation, the economy is showing enough signs of slowing that the Federal Reserve will probably leave interest rate policy unchanged when it meets on Tuesday and Wednesday, economists and analysts say.
But as it looks ahead, the Fed faces two big uncertainties that could lead it back to raising rates later in the year. 
 It is not at all clear, Fed officials say, that the slowdown of the last few months will not give way to another resurgence in growth and inflation pressures. In each of the last two years, growth slowed in the spring, only to come storming back.
And even if the economy is cooling, the Fed will have to decide just how cool is cool enough. Indeed, the central bank will have to resolve an internal debate over whether it is sufficient to slow growth to a pace that would keep unemployment at its current level of around 4 percent, or whether it will need to push harder on the brakes and drive unemployment up, perhaps to 5 percent or higher, to ensure that inflation remains in check.
The Fed has raised its benchmark interest rate by 1.75 percentage points, to 6.5 percent, in six increments over the last year. Economic indicators released over the last month have suggested that the higher rates are beginning to rein in the economy by damping the spending of consumers, slowing the pace of job creation and taking some of the steam out of the stock market.
But Fed officials have been wary of declaring that growth is back under control. In public and private statements, they have indicated that they need to see a few more months of data to be sure that the economy is responding as they want it to. And a number of them have emphasized in public appearances in recent weeks not the evidence that growth is slowing, but rather signs that "core" inflation -- excluding often volatile food and energy prices -- is beginning to creep up.
The most recent data, Robert T. Parry, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a speech this month, "makes it pretty clear that we've reached a stage where inflation is no longer falling."
Still, Fed officials have done nothing to counter the impression among investors and analysts that they are willing to put policy on hold until August, when they meet next, to give themselves more time to assess the effect of higher rates on the economy. As concerned as they are about inflation, the last thing Fed officials want to do is tighten policy so much that they stamp out the nation's longest economic expansion.
"It looks as if the economy is behaving the way it should under tighter monetary policy," said Allen Sinai, an economist at Primark Decision Economics. "The Fed can wait and define the slowdown and the inflation response more clearly before taking any further action."
If the Fed were to buck the conventional wisdom and raise rates this week, it would probably be in part because of a desire to keep the financial markets from rallying and fueling a rebound in growth. Analysts said the central bank's policy-setting Federal Open Market Committee would probably deal with that matter by issuing a strongly worded statement about the continuing threat of inflation, putting investors on notice that further rate increases are possible, if not likely, starting in August.
"They've got to talk tough," said Stephen D. Slifer, an economist at Lehman Brothers in New York. "If they chose not to talk tough, the markets will think they are out of the picture, and if there was an incipient slowdown it would disappear pretty quick."
In both 1998 and 1999, the economy slowed substantially in the second quarter and then picked back up again to growth rates that fanned inflation fears among Fed officials.
This year the economy grew at a 5.4 percent annual pace in the first quarter, and economists think it has slowed to an annual rate below 4 percent in the second quarter, which ends on Friday. There is some reason to think that this slowdown will last longer than its counterparts the last two years.
For one thing, the Fed has tightened monetary policy substantially in the last year. Moreover, the slowdown appears to be spread more evenly across the economy. And higher oil prices relative to the last few years could damp spending by both corporations and consumers by making everything from a tank of gasoline to raw materials more expensive.
Largely because of the acceleration in the growth rate of productivity, or output per hour, economists are increasingly convinced that the economy is capable of sharply higher rates of noninflationary growth than in the past.
Only a few years ago, economists believed that the economy's noninflationary speed limit was annual growth of about 2.25 percent. Most estimates now put trend growth at around 4 percent, or about the estimated current rate of growth.
But to project possible inflationary pressures, the speed limit, or "trend" growth rate, is often looked at in conjunction with the concept of a "natural" unemployment rate, or the jobless rate at which trend growth or higher will set off an inflationary cycle of wage and price increases.
Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, does not put much stock in the natural unemployment rate concept, but some of his colleagues at the central bank do, most notably Laurence H. Meyer, a Fed governor. While some economists say the evidence suggests that the natural rate is now down to around 4 percent, Mr. Meyer puts it at 5 to 5.25 percent.
If the economy is slowing, the debate at the Fed could turn to whether a combination of 3.5 to 4 percent growth and 4 percent unemployment will ignite any smoldering inflation pressures -- or whether the Fed should push growth down further, to a level that sends the unemployment rate back toward 5 percent.
"The major question," Mr. Meyer said in a speech earlier this month, "is whether slowing the economy to trend alone will get the job done or whether we need a period of below- trend growth to unwind an imbalance between the levels of aggregate demand and supply."
Mr. Meyer's concern is that inflation has been suppressed until now in part because of temporary factors that are likely to wear off, and that when they do, imbalances in the economy like the very tight labor market will again put upward pressure on wages and prices.
When the temporary factors dissipate, Mr. Meyer said, "not only will there be some rebound in inflation, but unless a transition is made back to sustainable utilization rates, there will be a risk of a continuous upward movement in inflation."
Translation: unemployment would have to rise back to the 5 percent level Mr. Meyer considers sustainable to ensure that inflation cannot get a foothold.
Mr. Meyer puts more faith than many of his colleagues at the Fed in the idea that there are predictable tradeoffs between growth, unemployment and inflation. But he is far from alone among them in questioning whether the Fed might still have to turn the interest rate screws tighter later this year, even at the risk of taking political criticism as Election Day draws near.
Mr. Greenspan is widely viewed as being more open to the idea that the economy can sustain a combination of strong growth and low unemployment without inflation, largely because of his optimistic outlook about continuing improvements in productivity growth.
Like a number of other Fed officials, Mr. Greenspan is likely to resist any calls for further rate increases on the basis of a theoretical relationship between growth, unemployment and inflation. He will probably be guided more by concrete evidence of how the economy develops in coming months.
It is worth noting, however, that the two camps are not debating whether the economy needs to go into recession to wring out any chance of inflation, only whether it should slow to 4 percent or 3 percent, still a healthy performance, or, at worst, 2 percent. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF SAN FRANCISCO (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); STATISTICS (77%); FOOD PRICES (73%); JOB CREATION (68%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



669 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 947 words

HEADLINE: Idlewild Journal;
Town Works to Revive Its Image as 'Black Eden'

BYLINE: By NICHOLE M. CHRISTIAN 

DATELINE: IDLEWILD, Mich., June 24

 BODY:
Except for the blinking traffic light that hangs over the two-lane highway here, little remains of this tiny town's legacy as the Midwest's first and most famous black resort area.
The light has long served as the only sign to travelers, mostly from Detroit, Chicago, Indianapolis, St. Louis and, occasionally, New York, that they have arrived in the "Black Eden," the nickname this town of winding roads took on in the late 1940's as scores of black intellectuals and entertainers bought small lakeside cottages and made it a swinging summer retreat. 
 In the days of segregation, Idlewild, 180 miles northwest of Detroit on the edge of Manistee National Forest, was one of a handful of places where black professionals could get away and where black entertainers were accorded the accommodations and adoration that Las Vegas and Hollywood denied them. At clubs like El Morocco, Flamingo and Paradise, summer visitors were entertained by the likes of Louis Armstrong, Count Basie, Dinah Washington and Sammy Davis Jr.
Much of what happened here did not make the history books, and many of the motels and nightclubs where the high-stepping took place have been erased by nearly three decades of economic abandonment.
Today, there is nothing especially grand about Idlewild, unless you count the steely determination of a cadre of old-timers who have held on to the tales and photographs of the glory days and are pushing for redevelopment in the town.
"Even with the history, this place has been on a down cycle for a long time," said John Meeks, a 78-year-old retired Detroit teacher who moved to Idlewild in 1975 after vacationing here for more than 30 years.
Mr. Meeks, who calls himself Idlewild's chief executive, is regarded as the architect of the area's revitalization effort. In 1989, he bought the only remaining inn, the Morton Motel, and has spent $350,000 adding air-conditioning, heat and private bathrooms to each of the 17 rooms.
The efforts of Mr. Meeks and other Idlewild enthusiasts are part of a campaign to draw visitors back to the town and rebuild its legacy with events like celebrity book-signings and concerts as well as an annual retreat for black poets. Their goal is to pass on their passion for Idlewild to a younger generation that has the money to buy homes and open businesses.
"We're on the threshold of building a new and improved Idlewild," said Mabel Williams, 69, who is opening a historical center. "The blinking light is going to be a beacon again."
As proof, Mrs. Williams, and most of the other 400 year-round residents, point to the large traffic barrels down the center of the main road. To the average driver, the barrels are covering potholes, but that is progress to local residents, because those holes mark the spots where Idlewild's first sewage system and natural gas lines are being installed. This summer, cable television is expected. Money from the state, appropriated after Idlewild was designated an empowerment zone in 1994, and other federal grants helped pay for the construction and repairs.
Historians are beginning to take greater note of Idlewild's past, particularly its founding in 1912. That is when a wealthy group of white Chicago developers bought 2,700 acres from a Michigan railroad company and began marketing lots, 125 feet by 20 feet, to prominent blacks like W. E. B. Du Bois and Madame C. J. Walker, the cosmetologist considered the United States' first black female millionaire, for $35, or $6 down and $1 a week.
This month, the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village in Dearborn began staging re-enactments of Idlewild's early days. Also, a University of Nebraska professor, Ronald J. Stephens, is putting together a traveling photo exhibit for next year.
Despite renewed interest and visible signs of improvement, Idlewild faces equally obvious hurdles. It is part of Lake County, where 26.4 percent of the roughly 10,000 residents live below the poverty line, more than double the state percentage, according to the 1990 census, the latest figures available. The biggest industry to come into area recently is a new prison for teenage criminals. In Idlewild, one out of five people is 65 or older, and the number of elderly residents continues to increase because most young people here head for the big cities as soon as they finish high school. For those reasons, some argue that Idlewild's vision of rebirth may be too ambitious.
"Integration essentially made Idlewild a rural agricultural ghetto," said Benjamin C. Wilson, a black studies professor at Western Michigan University and a longtime Idlewild researcher who also owns a cottage here. "Now that entertainers can perform anywhere, it will never be what it was. For people who aren't locked into the nostalgia of old Idlewild, there's not much reason to come. And the young people, the life of any community, leave as soon they get their credentials because it's the only way they'll find a job."
But Mr. Meeks said Idlewild's lakes and forests were too valuable to expose them to the potential pollution of industrial companies, even if the factories could offer good jobs. "Martha's Vineyard and Myrtle Beach didn't get to be upscale resort areas by letting smokestack businesses into their backyard," Mr. Meeks said. "We won't either."
Idlewild's history, he added, demands that it become a tourist destination. "You won't find another place in the United States with this kind of natural beauty and cultural import that still belongs to blacks," Mr. Meeks said, glancing at a group of children and anglers along Lake Idlewild, one of the village's five lakes. "We can't just give it away."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Idlewild, Mich., was once a popular vacation spot for upper-class blacks, who frequented sites like the now-closed Flamingo Club, below. Some residents are trying to revitalize the town. Above, from left, Jesse Thomas, Joey Howard and Alfred Carson, all 11, skipped stones last week on Idlewild Lake. (Photographs by George Gryzenia for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (73%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IDLEWILD (MICH); UNITED STATES (94%); MOROCCO (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (73%); DETROIT, MI, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; DISCRIMINATION TRAFFIC SIGNALS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); HISTORY (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); RACE & RACISM (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (75%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); WRITERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTIAN, NICHOLE M SAMMY DAVIS JR (55%); WILLIAM JAMES 'COUNT' BASIE JR (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



670 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 987 words

HEADLINE: Double Duty for a Microsoft Investigator

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 26

 BODY:
When a Microsoft law firm needed help recently in tracking down pirates and counterfeiters of the company's software, it turned to a private investigative firm with a reputation for coming up with sensitive information for high-profile clients.
So Microsoft was taken aback this month by reports that linked the firm, Investigative Group International, to mysterious efforts to obtain the trash of a pro-Microsoft trade association in Washington, presumably looking for documents that would embarrass the company as it fought a high-stakes antitrust case. 
 Microsoft officials said today that they had had no idea that the firm was effectively playing both sides of the street in working for and against Microsoft.
"It's bizarre and inappropriate that they would accept a Microsoft anti-piracy assignment while getting paid to attack the company with cash-for-trash tactics," said Vivek Varma, a Microsoft spokesman. "It seems an obvious conflict of interest." He said Microsoft would review the matter.
Investigative Group International, based in Washington, has been in the spotlight before, most recently when it performed investigative work for President Clinton, including research on Paula Jones, one of the president's accusers.
In a telephone interview today, the firm's chairman, Terry Lenzner, said he could not remember whether Microsoft was a client. "I'll have to check that," he said. "I can't confirm we've worked for Microsoft or any other client that hasn't been publicly identified, but I'll look into it." Mr. Lenzner would not comment on reports that his company had been investigating trade organizations and research groups sympathetic to Microsoft. And he would not say whether his firm had taken or paid for trash as part of such an investigation.
Microsoft said its involvement with Mr. Lenzner's company began in March, when a Microsoft law firm, Preston Gates & Ellis, retained the company's Los Angeles office to help hunt down pirates and counterfeiters. The firm was hired to order software and computers and check to see if the software was legitimate, as well as search public records for evidence of dummy companies that the counterfeiters frequently hide behind. When they found illegal activities, they were to notify the authorities.
This month, however, the Lenzner firm and Microsoft were linked in an altogether different connection. On June 1 and June 6, a woman identifying herself as Blanca Lopez offered to pay a cleaning crew to hand over trash from the office of the Association for Competitive Technology, a pro-Microsoft trade group in Washington, according to documents from the company that manages the association's office space. The incident was first reported by Wired.com and The Wall Street Journal.
The documents said the woman had gained entry to the building using keys from another tenant. The tenant, Upstream Technologies, appears to be a dummy corporation that rented the office only last month. And the person named on a credit application for the property, Robert Walters, has been identified in the past as an agent for the Lenzner firm.
A receptionist at the Lenzner firm's Washington office told a caller today, "Mr. Walters is not employed here but I can get a message to him." Phone calls to Mr. Walters over the weekend and today were not returned.
The Lenzner firm has been known to pay for or take trash on occasion, according to a person intimately familiar with its methods. He said the firm had used the tactic in "four or five" of the 8,000 or so cases it has investigated.
He also said the firm had a policy of taking trash only if a lawyer had reviewed the tactic and deemed it legal and if the client who retained the firm had approved the actions.
Who might have retained Mr. Lenzner's firm in an anti-Microsoft effort is not clear.
The trash-buying attempt at the technology association failed, and the woman extending the offer has not been found. But embarrassing documents from other pro-Microsoft groups have found their way into the press in recent months, and at least two of the groups say the documents may have been on stolen computers.
One case involves documents that were the basis for an article in The New York Times last September. It said that newspaper advertisements presented as independent views backing Microsoft in the antitrust case had actually been paid for by Microsoft. The Times said documents showing the connection between Microsoft and the group placing the ads, the Independent Institute, had been provided by a Microsoft adversary associated with the computer industry.
David J. Theroux, president of the Independent Institute, a free-market policy institute in Oakland, Calif., said he believed that the documents "were surreptitiously taken" but "we just don't know how."
"It could have been through our dumpster," he said, "or maybe someone hacked into our system."
But adding to the intrigue, Mr. Theroux said two company laptops were stolen from the office on June 18, 1999. He said the police concluded that the theft appeared to be a "professional job" by someone who cased the offices earlier in the day.
"We're not claiming these laptops were how the information was obtained," Mr. Theroux said, but he said he thought copies of the documents were on the laptops.
In another case, Marty Reiser, a spokesman for the Citizens for a Sound Economy, a free-market lobbying firm, said laptops were taken from its Washington office on three occasions between September and December. A fourth laptop was taken from its Iowa office in January.
Mr. Reiser said the laptops might have had information showing Microsoft among the organization's donors -- information that later appeared in The Washington Post.
"We're fairly certain there is something going on out there and we need to be more careful," he said. "It's still all very coincidental, but who knows?" 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP; INVESTIGATIVE GROUP INTERNATIONAL; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; PRESTON GATES & ELLIS MICROSOFT CORP (90%); K&L GATES LLP (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; INVESTIGATIVE GROUP INTERNATIONAL; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; PRESTON GATES & ELLIS

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; COUNTERFEIT MERCHANDISE; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US); ATTORNEYS GENERAL LAWYERS (90%); COUNTERFEITING (90%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); LITIGATION (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); OFFICE PROPERTY (66%); 

PERSON: VARMA, VIVEK; LENZER, TERRY BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



671 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 113 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Chechnya Assault to Resume
The day after a top commander announced a halt to Russian attacks in Chechnya, the Kremlin said that the attacks would continue. PAGE A9 

A Move Ahead for Ulster
Two envoys have inspected a number of Irish Republican Army arms caches, a step in advancing Northern Ireland's peace pact. PAGE A3
 
Miami Relatives File Appeal
The Miami relatives of 6-year-old Elian Gonzalez asked the Supreme Court to block his return to Cuba pending a formal appeal. PAGE A14
 
Fed Unlikely to Raise Rates
The Federal Reserve is expected to leave interest rates unchanged when it completes its two-day meeting tomorrow. BUSINESS DAY, PAGE C1 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (90%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MIAMI RELATIVES (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (56%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%); IRISH REPUBLICAN ARMY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (85%); PEACE PROCESS (85%); INTEREST RATES (82%); ECONOMIC NEWS (82%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%); TALKS & MEETINGS (50%); 

PERSON: ELIAN GONZALEZ (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



672 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Lazio Takes On Gas Prices And Criticizes Mrs. Clinton

BYLINE: By RANDAL C. ARCHIBOLD 

DATELINE: CHILI, N.Y., June 26

 BODY:
Latching onto an issue emerging in political campaigns nationwide, Representative Rick A. Lazio turned his focus today to rising gasoline prices, appearing at three upstate stations to call for a repeal or suspension of some fuel taxes and, along the way, criticizing his opponent, Hillary Rodham Clinton.
It was the first time in his monthlong campaign that Mr. Lazio, the Republican Senate nominee, made a somewhat detailed policy proposal of his own, choosing an issue that has confounded government officials and customers. The average gas price in New York last week was $1.68, up 41 percent from the $1.18 at this time last year and the highest in raw numbers since state authorities began conducting weekly surveys in the early 1960's. 
 Mr. Lazio called for suspending for six months the 18.3 cents-per-gallon federal gasoline tax. The tax includes a 4.3 cents-per-gallon surcharge that Congress enacted in 1993. Mr. Lazio said he opposed the 1993 surcharge and proposed today that it be repealed.
He blamed the Clinton administration for its energy policies and accused Mrs. Clinton of not recognizing the issue's importance to state residents at a time when she has begun broadcasting a series of hard-hitting advertisements. "While they sling mud, she has remained silent on this issue that affects all New Yorkers," Mr. Lazio said at a gas station in Chili, a suburb in Monroe County, which includes Rochester. "What Mrs. Clinton needs to do is get out of the motorcade, get out of fantasyland and get in contact with the issues that are affecting real New Yorkers, the prices at the pump."
Mrs. Clinton fired back immediately, with her aides issuing statements at Mr. Lazio's appearances, criticizing what they called his previous inaction on reducing fuel prices and now offering what they said was a shortsighted solution that could jeopardize money to fix highways.
Mr. Lazio's decision to focus on such a consumer issue suggested a subtle shift in strategy. He has focused on appearances that either have made for scenic pictures or allowed him to outline his stances as if introducing himself, telling attendees what he favors -- like lower taxes and charter schools in academically poor areas -- but usually not delving into specifics.
The representative also made appearances today at gas stations near Buffalo and in Syracuse to deride the high gas prices, and will continue his campaign swing on Tuesday in the Hudson Valley, again emphasizing the issue before attending a fund-raiser in Manhattan.
His upstate tour followed a week of static on several fronts for the new Senate candidate, including disclosures about investments in stock options that are now in a preliminary investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission and complaints about his absence from the gay pride parade in Manhattan on Sunday.
Mr. Lazio has insisted that his investments are modest and above board. As for the parade, he had previously scheduled events upstate.
"This administration has no energy policy; Mrs. Clinton has no energy policy," Mr. Lazio said in Buffalo, echoing the sentiments of Gov. George W. Bush, who seized on the gas price issue last week. Vice President Al Gore, who has attributed the price spike to gouging by big oil companies, plans on Tuesday to outline his own energy policy, stressing the use of alternative fuels.
The fliers handed out by Mrs. Clinton's aides used quotes by House Republican leaders to bolster the point that repealing gasoline surcharges could be harmful. The Republicans discouraged such measures, the flier said, because they could diminish highway construction funds. Mrs. Clinton's aides again criticized Mr. Lazio for missing a vote earlier this month in the House on a bill that would have created a home heating oil reserve, another energy-related topic that has angered consumers.
Mr. Lazio, who missed the vote as he traveled to New York to campaign, said his vote would not have mattered on the measure, which was defeated 195-193. But Mrs. Clinton disagreed; she also criticized the idea of rolling back the gas taxes before determining the extent to which oil companies are responsible.
Mr. Lazio said any loss in highway money could be replenished by tapping the federal budget surplus. He also said President Clinton had not done enough to pressure oil-producing nations to lower the price of crude oil, an assertion Mr. Clinton and Mrs. Clinton dispute.
"I think if you look at what the administration has done, it certainly has exerted a lot of pressure, and we've seen two increases in supply in the last several months," Mrs. Clinton said at a news conference on the steps of New York City Hall. "And I anticipate that we'll see the price beginning to drop."
She added: "I think the more interesting questions are the relationships between the Republican Party and a lot of the big oil companies. Because if you look at the hearing that Democratic members of the House had in Illinois just a few days ago, they pointed out that there is no reason for the price to be as high as it is, particularly in the Midwest, but also in the rest of the country. I think we need to get to the bottom of whether there are any excess costs being added to the price of oil here in the United States by our domestic producers and distributors."
Industry analysts say New York's high prices result from a variety of factors, including high demand propelled by a strong economy, low supplies and an increase in the price of crude oil. Although the prices are the highest in raw dollar figures, gas prices were higher in the early 1980's, when accounting for inflation, said Peter R. Smith, an analyst with the New York State Energy Research and Development Authority, a state-sponsored advisory agency.
Greg Voll, who owns the Mobil station here where Mr. Lazio spoke, said that despite the price increases, his sales in last year were up about 5 percent, though that might be due in part to a 5-cent discount he offers on Sundays.
"This is a business area," said Mr. Voll, whose station is in an industrial area near the Rochester airport. "And there is a lot more traffic."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Rick A. Lazio in Syracuse yesterday. He focused on rising gas prices during appearances at three upstate service stations. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US) HUDSON VALLEY HOMESTEAD (51%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) REPUBLICAN SENATE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (91%); ROCHESTER, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; ELECTIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) OIL & GAS PRICES (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); FUEL TAX (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TAX LAW (90%); SUMMER 2008 GAS TAX HOLIDAY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GAS STATIONS (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GASOLINE (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%); STOCK OPTIONS (60%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); 

PERSON: ARCHIBOLD, RANDAL C; LAZIO, RICK A (REPR); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



673 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 2575 words

HEADLINE: A DREAM FORECLOSED: A special report.;
Buildings' Savior Now a Troubled Landlord

BYLINE: By AMY WALDMAN 

 BODY:
This spring, the grievances at 1084-1086 Home Street in the South Bronx piled up like the garbage in the courtyard: sporadic heat and hot water, unpaid light bills, water-cracked walls, rats swaggering through like neighborhood bullies. Hallway graffiti cursed the landlord, who had not bothered to paint over it.
The building's state was not the handiwork of a profiteering landlord. Rather, the overseer of 1084-1086 Home Street is the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a Bronx nonprofit community development corporation once praised as a national model for residents who want to restore failing housing and reclaim lost neighborhoods. 
 Today, its own properties are increasingly troubled, whether by periods without heat or by unrealized plans, as with a former synagogue, empty and encrusted with scaffolding, on Fox Street.
For a group that got its start rehabilitating abandoned buildings, there may be no symbol more dispiriting than 866 Beck Street, a Banana Kelly building that deteriorated so much that it was emptied of tenants and boarded up.
"Our savior has become a slumlord," said Marta Rivera, the chairwoman of the local community board and a tenant at 1084 Home Street since 1987.
The criticism, if harsh, is understandable, given what Banana Kelly, which drew its memorable name from the curve of the Bronx street where it was born, once meant in the South Bronx.
Two decades ago, foundations, reporters and government officials flocked to the Hunts Point-Longwood neighborhoods to see how Banana Kelly had transformed drug-infested, derelict tenements into livable spaces, and had created low-income housing co-ops that proved the salvation of a once-devastated area.
To its critics, the decline of some of Banana Kelly's properties is a physical reflection of the group's internal disarray, which is sketched in remarkably consistent terms by current and former board members, former employees and financial backers.
Local merchants have shunned, and in some cases sued, the organization because of unpaid debts; at least one oil company began demanding cash on delivery. Former employees who have exited through its revolving door contend that top officials used program money for international travel, an accusation that, according to one federal law enforcement official, is being examined by the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The group's board, the essential instrument for accountability, has withered to a tiny group that rarely meets.
Banana Kelly's revenues from foundations, government grants and development projects dropped from nearly $6 million in 1994 to barely $3 million in 1998. It currently has no city financing. Its debts, meanwhile, have mounted into the hundreds of thousands of dollars. It is in arrears on six city mortgages, and behind on payroll taxes. At times, its employees say, their offices lacked for toilet paper. Grand plans, most notably a paper recycling plant proposed for the South Bronx, have stalled or failed.
Twenty-two years after its formation, Banana Kelly is one of the Bronx's major landlords. It manages 41 buildings that house formerly homeless and low-income and working-class families. Over the years, it has expanded into a multiservice agency employing 95 people who do everything from managing its properties to counseling AIDS patients.
Its many triumphs have included a 1996 award from the city as an outstanding community-based organization and another at a United Nations conference that year. But its critics say its recent awards reflect an organization coasting on past glories.
The group's chairwoman, Yolanda Rivera, disputed the critics, saying that it is a wonderful time for Banana Kelly, and that she was bringing renewed vigor to righting it financially. She cited the high school the organization started in 1997; the Board of Education has authorized the construction of a building for the school.
Ms. Rivera denies any allegation that money was misused. She said many of the property problems were caused by tenants who had never learned how to live independently, and said politics or mischief motivated many of her critics. She said that the city had been little help in alleviating the organization's debts, and that she deserved credit for keeping Banana Kelly afloat in a trying period. "I'm not ashamed that we continue to operate, that we are healthy," she said.
Her defenders say that she is paying the price for being a successful Hispanic woman. Joe Hall, who worked at Banana Kelly for eight years, said Ms. Rivera embodies "the great paradox of community development in New York": foundations and other institutions say they want to cultivate indigenous leaders like Ms. Rivera, but then are threatened when they succeed.
But for many, Banana Kelly's situation is less paradox than parable, illustrating some of the dangers inherent in the recent history of government's relationship with poor neighborhoods.
During the last few decades, government has stepped back from direct involvement in areas like housing and health care, and instead encouraged community development organizations like Banana Kelly to step into the breach.
Neither oversight nor adequate resources have always followed. When nonprofit organizations have struggled, government overseers have often been ill positioned or unwilling to attempt reform. No government agency even has a complete sense of Banana Kelly's finances.
In part, Banana Kelly's very purpose has protected it. "Not-for-profits in these communities on the housing side are so critical a resource," said Jerilyn Perine, the first deputy commissioner at the city's Department of Housing, Preservation and Development. "We want to see them succeed. We don't want them to fail. Their importance goes simply beyond their own organization. It's not as if if they disappeared, someone will take their place."
 
Out of the Ruins
A Radical Idea: Save Buildings
Banana Kelly bloomed from the ruins, at a time when housing in the South Bronx was being burned, not built. In the 1970's, a group of residents on Kelly Street united to stop the demolition of three buildings on their block.
The group revamped those buildings and won title to them and others from a city desperate to divest itself of abandoned or deteriorating housing. The city provided loans for rehabilitation or gave Banana Kelly newly renovated buildings to manage, usually asking a symbolic pittance in return.
In 1978, Banana Kelly incorporated as a nonprofit corporation providing housing and services. Its adopted as its motto, "Don't Move. Improve."
"Everyone was coming in to see how we did this, how did we get people together," recalled Pearl White, a founding member, who said she could still remember the splinters stinging her hands as she helped rehabilitate the buildings.
Banana Kelly brought tens of millions of dollars in investment to its community and rehabilitated more than 2,000 units of housing; it also suggested that the tide of hopelessness could be turned. Its methods, like sweat equity, allowed residents to trade work for ownership, and its performance won it federal, state and city contracts.
Today, the Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association is an umbrella organization for the limited partnerships and low-income co-ops that own the buildings it manages. It is supposed to collect rents, do maintenance, pay real estate taxes, and make mortgage, water and sewer payments.
Like many community-based housing developers, it is in a difficult financial position. The group's rents are low, and its tenants vulnerable to falling behind in payments. While Banana Kelly has been taken to Housing Court dozens of times, it has had to bring hundreds of delinquent tenants there, incurring legal expenses each time.
The city also handed over properties in need of more work than it provided financing for, said Harold DeRienzo, Banana Kelly's founder, and Ms. Rivera.
Under Ms. Rivera, who became the organization's chief executive in 1991, Banana Kelly undertook various social service operations.
Saying she wanted to wean both tenants and the organization from dependence on government, Ms. Rivera also turned to large-scale economic development. In 1992, Banana Kelly joined with the Natural Resources Defense Council, a national environmental advocacy organization, to develop a paper recycling plant to be built in the South Bronx.
The plant was designed by Maya Lin, best known for the Vietnam War Memorial in Washington, and praised by President Clinton.
But it has yet to be built; financing and politics have postponed it indefinitely. Like a castle in the air, it drained personnel and attention from an organization struggling on the ground.
 
Staff Turnover
A Poor Record Of Management
As Banana Kelly grew, its infrastructure was being stretched. When Ms. Rivera took over, she dismissed a number of staff members, saying an excess of professionals had distanced the agency from the community.
In subsequent years, new employees and executives have come, but few have stayed long. Many have been fired in the agency's many purges during the last eight years. Even today, Ms. Rivera said, most of the staff is brand-new.
But the agency eventually became overwhelmed, current and former officials said. Financial backers of Banana Kelly describe almost willfully incompetent financial management. They say Banana Kelly never found a workable system for collecting and tracking rents and expenditures, and did a poor job of separating its various operations. It missed tax advantages, and a $2 million state grant awarded in 1998 to renovate 866 Beck Street and another building is being withheld pending an updated audited financial statement, state officials said.
There is also the nearly $1 million owed for water and sewer services, more than $500,000 in real estate taxes, the overdue $127,000 an oil company is trying to collect, the liens and lawsuits over the years from accountants, hardware stores and others.
Former employees describe continual pressures to use money earmarked for specific programs to offset those debts, and say programs and maintenance operations had to run on shoestrings. Superintendents reached into their own pockets to buy everything from paint to oil; the group's former president said he had to take out a loan to make the payroll.
But as employees were scrounging, Ms. Rivera and a few associates were traveling, as part of an international venture the group established several years ago.
By Ms. Rivera's own admission, some part of the organization's dwindling resources -- what she calls general, or unrestricted funds -- were used to pay for that travel, including a trip to a conference in Kenya for her and several associates.
"We got a good group rate," she said.
But, as part of an investigation into Banana Kelly's finances, the F.B.I. is looking at whether federal program money was used to pay for that trip and whether Ms. Rivera's relatives went with her, a federal law enforcement official said.
Among those on the Africa trip was a Bronx-based consultant who did particularly well under Banana Kelly's auspices. By the time the consultant, Aureo Cardona, left the organization last year, his company, Crescendo Inc., was being paid $15,000 a month to manage Banana Kelly's properties, and he had been given access to a $50,000 expense fund -- to be replenished as needed -- to do "national and international engagements" for the group. And, under a contract he signed with Claude Gooding, the organization's former president, he was to receive $1 million if the recycling plant went to financial closing, which it has not.
Ms. Rivera says she knew nothing about that contract, and the two parted ways after The New York Post reported the deal last year. Mr. Cardona is now suing Banana Kelly for back pay, saying his contract was breached, and would not discuss his history with the group.
Another frequent traveler was Mr. Hall, who was named president of Banana Kelly International. Mr. Hall, who said his salary was $55,000, lived in a Banana Kelly apartment at 814 Manida Street, which is supposed to house low-income tenants exclusively under the group's agreement with the city.
Mr. Hall said he did not know the building was for low-income tenants; Ms. Rivera said she thought it was for low-to-moderate-income tenants.
Ms. Rivera has been at the center of controversy almost since she took charge of the organization in 1991, after having been chairwoman of its board since 1985. She has retained her board chairmanship during her tenure as chief executive, an arrangement that her predecessor, Getz Obstfeld, called "fairly uncommon," and that her critics assert insulates her from accountability.
In recent years, the board has shrunk, with as few as three members, including Ms. Rivera, usually attending no more than one meeting a year. Banana Kelly's bylaws say that "board members are not to be directly involved with management." Yet over the years, in addition to Ms. Rivera, various board members have been employed by Banana Kelly, including Rosemonde Pierre-Louis, a member since 1996, who became the organization's president last fall.
If Ms. Rivera has rewarded the loyal, her critics say, she has been vindictive toward those she sees as disloyal. In February, she fired five building superintendents without notice and has since tried to evict them, although the firings await union arbitration.
"She is the law in Banana Kelly," a fired superintendent, Agripino Morales, said.
 
Tenants Make Do
Buildings Worsen, Repairs Go Undone
But neither deep resentment nor financial travails seem to have affected Banana Kelly, its critics say. As its city financing has dwindled to nothing, it has simply turned to the state and federal governments.
City officials could foreclose on Banana Kelly's mortgages, but feel that doing so would set the community back 20 years. Despite being aware of Banana Kelly's management problems for years, in April 1999 the housing department turned four more buildings over to the group. So tenants make do with the landlord they have.
In Lydia Rios's apartment at 788 Fox Street, a city housing inspector who visited in April left a checklist of violations, from no smoke detector to a leaky ceiling. She shrugged. Each year the housing inspector orders repairs, and they go undone, she said.
Banana Kelly's financial backers and city officials say they have lately become particularly concerned because of deferred maintenance to Banana Kelly's properties.
Ms. Rivera said the organization is seeking a loan to pay off back taxes and to rehabilitate 788 Fox Street and several other buildings. But, she said of tenants, "If conditions were as bad as they sometimes say, they would have moved out."
Given the organization's roots, that sentiment sits poorly with Pearl White, who has sat on Banana Kelly's board since its inception. She said she has futilely challenged Ms. Rivera's actions and demanded more records. She was warned, she said, that if she spoke publicly about her concerns, she would be removed from the board.
"I don't want to see any of the buildings end up like the condition we were in," she said, sitting in the apartment on Kelly Street she helped bring back to life with her bare hands more than two decades ago. "I don't want to see Banana Kelly ruined."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: DISAPPOINTMENTS -- At 866 Beck Street, a building is boarded up. At 1084 Home Street, a tenant, Marta Rivera, has many complaints. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); Marta Rivera says Banana Kelly has poorly run her building at 1084 Home Street. Another building, on Beck Street, is boarded up. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times); (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. B8)
 
Chart: "The Living is Hard: Some of the Buildings' Issues"
The Banana Kelly Community Improvement Association, a Bronx nonprofit community development corporation, once set the standard for reclaiming lost neighborhoods, but has now fallen on hard times. Here are some complaints about buildings that Banana Kelly manages.
 
866 Beck Street (left)
Built in 1931; 22 units.
Taxes owed: $10,000
Issues: Sinking floors, leaking ceilings, rats, no gas. After battling Banana Kelly over repairs, the tenants were removed and the building was boarded up. A state grant is being held up until Banana Kelly supplies an audited financial statement.
 
788 Fox Street
Built in 1922; 54 units.
Taxes owed: $220,000
Issues: Leaking ceilings, falling cupboards, graffiti, vacant apartments. Banana Kelly missed an opportunity to apply for an abatement on future taxes.
 
1084-1086 Home Street:
Built in 1925; 56 units.
Taxes owed: $108,000
Issues: Rats, cracked walls, threatened cut-offs of lights, repeated periods without heat and hot water. At least one tenant is suing after falling on a broken stair. Almost all of the commercial spaces are empty.
 
1100 and 1106 West Farms Road
Built in 1901; 30 units.
Taxes owed: $30,618
Issues: Tenants complain of cutoffs of hot water and heat, particularly in winter, and of repairs left undone, from clogged up sinks to broken doors. They say superintendents lacked supplies to do basic repairs.
(pg. B8)
 
Map of New York shows location of Banana-Kelly holdings. (pg. A1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Special Report

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: BANANA KELLY COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT ASSN (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: BANANA KELLY COMMUNITY IMPROVEMENT ASSN (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HOMELESS PERSONS; LANDLORDS; RENTING AND LEASING RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (75%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (64%); HOMELESSNESS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); 

PERSON: WALDMAN, AMY; RIVERA, YOLANDA YOLANDA RIVERA (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



674 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: Industrial Growth Threatens Scenic Hudson River Valley, Group Warns

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, June 26

 BODY:
The Hudson River Valley, with its lush views and rich cultural landscape, has become one of the most endangered historic sites in the country because of encroaching development by electrical utilities and other industries, the nation's largest privately run preservation group warned today.
The National Trust for Historic Preservation, a nonprofit group based in Washington, chose the verdant, 125-mile stretch from New York City to Albany for its annual list of most endangered places for the first time since it began compiling it in 1988. 
 "It was the fact that there was such a large threat," said Richard Moe, president of the trust. "This could amount to a reindustrialization of the Hudson Valley and undo a lot of the progress that has been made if development isn't checked."
A total of 11 historic sites -- the Hudson Valley was the only major one named in the New York region -- were chosen for this year's list, culled from more than 100 nominated by environmentalists and local government officials for the dubious distinction. Sites on previous lists have included Governors Island in 1998 and Ellis Island in 1997.
The preservation group said today that several proposed power plants, along with growing suburban sprawl along the Hudson River, threatened to pockmark the serene landscape made famous by the 19th-century painters of the Hudson River School.
A power plant in Athens, for instance, would tower over Olana, the home of the painter Frederic Edwin Church. And a Wal-Mart superstore has been proposed not once but twice for a site across from President Franklin D. Roosevelt's home in Hyde Park.
Over the last year, the Hudson Valley has been swept up in a rush to build power plants throughout the Northeast, fueled by the deregulation of electrical utilities and a growing demand for power plants. Gov. George E. Pataki approved plans this month for the $500 million plant in Athens, over the objections of many residents.
Another half-dozen power plants have been proposed for the region in the next few years, as well as a growing number of superstores and several factories, including a $300 million cement plant in Greenport.
While some environmentalists and advocacy groups have opposed these projects, Mr. Pataki and many business leaders have argued that development will bring much-needed economic relief to a region that has been struggling since the 1960's.
Edward Reinfurt, vice president of the influential Business Council of New York State, a lobbying group that represents 5,000 companies, dismissed the suggestion that the Hudson Valley has become endangered.
"In our minds, industry is indeed part of the heritage of the Hudson Valley, and quite frankly, we're delighted to see the return of the steel cranes in Albany and elsewhere," he said. "There is a modest growth, but certainly not growth that threatens, in any way, our communities."
Michael McKeon, a spokesman for Mr. Pataki, said the governor has worked to protect the natural resources of the Hudson Valley at the same time that he has pushed economic development. For instance, he said, the state has spent more than $256 million to clean and protect the Hudson River since Mr. Pataki took office in 1995.
"I don't think anyone has done more to protect open spaces and to enhance the Hudson River and its estuaries than Governor Pataki," Mr. McKeon said. "He has a very personal and passionate commitment to the Hudson Valley."
But, he added, "At the same time, we're trying to ensure that we have jobs here at home so our kids don't have to move out of the state."
In January, Mr. McKeon said, the governor appointed a task force of government and environmental leaders to study development issues in the valley and elsewhere around the state. But several environmentalists and advocacy groups said today that the state had not done enough to limit development along the river.
"Our farmland is being consumed at an alarming rate, urban sprawl is moving up the Hudson like a wave, and big-box retail stores are being built on the outskirts of towns and sapping the vitality of our villages and urban centers," said Ned Sullivan, executive director of Scenic Hudson, an advocacy group.
Mr. Sullivan's group was part of a coalition of environmental and citizens groups that filled out a 20-page application nominating the Hudson River Valley as an endangered historic site. Although the designation does not bring money, it does bring renewed public attention to the issue of overdevelopment.
"It has been an effective tool," said Mr. Moe, of the preservation trust, which operates three historic sites in New York, including the Rockefeller estate at Pocantico Hills and the Lower East Side Tenement Museum in New York City. "It's an educational vehicle to make people aware of the threats to different kinds of historic places. It almost always brings favorable attention and resources along with it."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Map of New York shows location of White Plains: Proposals to build power plants have alarmed preservationists.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION HYDE PARK MARKETS (53%); NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION NATIONAL TRUST FOR HISTORIC PRESERVATION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HUDSON RIVER VALLEY (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER HISTORIC SITES (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); HISTORY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); PAINTING (73%); RIVERS (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (72%); GOVERNORS (71%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (66%); CEMENT MFG (66%); SUBURBS (65%); 

PERSON: HU, WINNIE GEORGE E PATAKI (79%); MICHAEL MCKEON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



675 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: Home Resales Rise, Yet Little Fear of Effect on Interest Rates

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
Sales of existing homes rose by a strong 4.3 percent in May and prices crept higher, as pent-up demand caused by a slim choice of homes for sale kept activity buoyant despite higher mortgage rates.
The National Association of Realtors said today that sales in May rose to an annual pace of 5.09 million units from 4.88 million in April. This surpassed expectations of Wall Street economists, who had predicted no change in existing home sales. 
 The data came a day ahead of a Federal Reserve meeting on interest rates, but seemed unlikely to unduly worry policy makers at the central bank who are eager to see signs of a cooling down of the economy.
The strength in home sales was largely attributed to unmet demand as inventories fell to low points in January and February. This left many prospective buyers competing for few homes on the market in recent months, bolstering the sales pace and sending prices higher.
"Some of what we're seeing now are sales to buyers who lost out on multiple bids earlier this year, so a lot of momentum has been carried forward," said Fred Flick, the association's vice president for economic research. "We are expecting sales to slow over the second half of the year."
The association forecasts sales of existing homes -- the largest sector of the housing market, accounting for about 80 percent of overall sales -- to slow this year by 9 percent, to 4.7 million units sold.
James Annable, chief economist at WingspanBank.com, also expects the real estate market to slow, saying that many of the sales that closed in May probably involved buyers trying to lock in mortgage rates before they went higher.
"The Fed will look at this data and probably see it as something of a hiccup," Mr. Annable said.
The Federal Reserve, which has raised interest rates six times in the last year, may be particularly eager to slow existing home sales. Home buyers typically spend heavily on renovations and on major appliances and furniture, kindling the already active economy.
For the last two years, economists have forecast a slowing in the housing market, only to see their expectations dashed.
With that in mind, Sung Won Sohn, Wells Fargo's chief economist, said that any talk of a slowdown this year should be taken with a grain of salt.
"The fundamentals of this economy are still strong," he said. "Consumers have jobs, high confidence and rising real incomes, and mortgage rates have dipped in recent weeks again. If it were not for the shortage of homes available for sale, I think sales would have been even higher." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); WINGSPANBANK.COM (54%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; SALES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); REAL ESTATE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); SALES PROJECTIONS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE RATES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); INVENTORIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (74%); 

PERSON: JAMES ANNABLE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



676 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1377 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the President's Statement on the Budget Surplus

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's news conference today on the South Lawn of the White House about revised figures for the nation's budget surplus, as recorded by the Federal News Service, a private transcription agency:
In 1993 when I became president, the federal budget deficit was $290 billion. It was projected to rise to $455 billion this year. The American people wanted a better future, and we offered a new economic course of fiscal discipline, expanded trade, and greater investment in our people and our future. The result has been the longest economic expansion in history, a fiscal turnaround that is stronger, frankly, than any of us had imagined. 
 In fact, in each year since 1993, both economic growth and federal revenues have surpassed our forecasts, and this year is no exception. Today, as required by law, I am releasing the mid-session review of the budget. It shows that our overall budget surplus this year will be $211 billion, more than a $700 billion improvement over where we projected to be in 1993. And we're forecasting a surplus for the next 10 years that is over $1 trillion larger than was forecast just four months ago.
The American people should be very proud of this news. It's the result of their hard work and their support for fiscal discipline. It's proof that we can create a better future for ourselves when we put our minds to it. And it provides a tremendous new opportunity to build an even brighter future if we sustain our prosperity by maintaining our fiscal discipline.
These new surpluses put us in a position to achieve something that would have seemed unimaginable in 1993. As this chart shows, we can now pay down the debt completely by 2012, a year earlier than we projected just four months ago. . . .
Now, why should we do this? Because by paying down the debt, we can keep interest rates lower and free up more capital for private-sector investment, creating more jobs and economic growth for years and years to come.
We can eliminate the burden of paying interest on the debt, which today takes up 12 cents of every federal tax dollar. We can use part of this savings, as I have suggested, to extend the solvency of Social Security to 2057 and of Medicare to 2030.
Now, think about what this means. A 6-year-old today -- we may have some out here -- is living in an America that is $3.5 trillion in debt. If we follow the course I am laying out, we can eliminate that debt by the time the child enters college. The economy will be stronger, his parents' incomes will be greater, the interest rates on college loans will be lower. And 12 years from now, people of my generation will be entering retirement, knowing that Social Security and Medicare will be there for them.
Quite simply, an economic plan that invests in our people and pays down the debt is the wisest choice we can make to honor our values and ensure a better future for our children.
To that end, I propose that we follow Vice President Gore's recommendation and lock away that portion of the surplus that comes from the Medicare taxes people pay. Medicare payroll taxes should not be used to finance tax cuts or other spending. They should be saved for Medicare and Medicare alone. There is already broad bipartisan support for saving the Social Security surplus for debt reduction. It's time to do the same for Medicare, by taking Medicare off budget.
By protecting both Social Security and Medicare surpluses, we can lock in $2.7 trillion of debt reduction in just the next 10 years, enabling us to get the debt entirely gone by 2012. Before we make any other major budget decisions this year, I ask Congress to come together across party lines to protect the Medicare surplus.
Now, a lot of people are saying that because this is an election year, Congress won't get much done. It does not have to be that way. Today, I called House Speaker Hastert and Senator Lott with a proposal to break the logjam and do what we all say we want to do.
We all say we want to provide prescription drug coverage to the millions of senior and disabled Americans on Medicare who currently lack it. I have presented my plan; the Republicans have presented theirs.
We all say we want to end the marriage penalty. I have presented my plan; the Republicans have presented theirs. I believe their marriage penalty, standing on its own and not part of an overall commitment to fiscal discipline and also tilting, I believe, too much toward upper-income Americans, is too big and not targeted toward those who need it most.
But if we can all agree to take Medicare off budget and not use Medicare money for tax cuts or for other spending, then I have told the Republican leaders I would like to make a simple offer. If Congress will pass a plan that gives real voluntary Medicare prescription drug coverage, available and affordable to all seniors and consistent with the principles of my plan, costing roughly $250 billion over 10 years, then I will sign a marriage penalty relief law which also costs roughly $250 billion over 10 years.
This is a proposal for a true compromise. It asks each party to accept some of the positions of the other party in the name of progress. By adopting the vice president's plan to save the Medicare surplus, we will achieve the most significant strengthening of Medicare since the proposal was created in 1965 and deliver the largest tax relief to families in decades. These are goals that both parties and all Americans agree on.
It would be wrong to let politics keep us from seizing the opportunity . . . We can take these actions and still have, according to our new budget projections, substantial resources left over for future budget priorities.
Now, I want to remind the people, however, that this is just a budget projection. It would not be prudent to commit every penny of a future surplus that is just a projection and therefore subject to change. Fiscal discipline helped to create these surpluses; fiscal discipline is what we should continue as we determine how best to use them.
In my mid-session review, therefore, I propose to set aside a $500 billion reserve for America's future, a fund that could eventually be used for any number of key priorities, from retirement savings, to tax cuts, to investments in education, research, health care and environmental protection, to further debt reduction. We should set aside this reserve fund.
At this late date in the fiscal year, with elections looming, it would unrealistic and imprudent for those of us in Washington to decide what to do with this money. That's something that should be debated in the coming months and decided on by the American people this fall. Our obligation is to move forward on those issues that have been fully debated, where there is bipartisan agreement for action.
So this summer, let's set aside the Medicare surpluses and pay down the debt. Let's pass a voluntary prescription drug benefit for seniors and disabled Americans on Medicare, and marriage penalty tax relief for American families.
When that's done, I hope we will also raise the minimum wage, pass a strong, enforceable patients' bill of rights, pass a juvenile justice bill that closes the gun-show loophole, hate crimes legislation and the new markets legislation, and make key investments in education, health care and the environment.
Then, in the election, let's have a vigorous debate about how the remainder of these new surpluses can best be used to advance our nation. It's the right debate to have, and I think we can all agree that it's a debate we are very fortunate to be able to have.
How we use these surpluses in this moment of prosperity will determine America's future for decades to come. Nothing will more surely determine it than making the right choices, if we do the right things to keep our prosperity going, to extend its benefits to people and places not yet fully part of it, to help Americans balance the demands of work and family, to seize the remarkable potential and meet the challenges of globalization and the revolutions of science and information technology.
This is a good day for America. We ought to preserve it for the future and make the most of the moment. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NEWS SERVICE GROUP INC (58%); MEDICARE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; TAXATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); MEDICARE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); JOB CREATION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); STUDENT LOANS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



677 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-11
 
Zimbabwe Opposition Gains In Parliamentary Elections
Results from weekend voting showed the fledgling opposition party making unprecedented gains on the party that has dominated Zimbabwe for 20 years. But the governing party was expected to hold its majority, once the count was completed. A1 

I.R.A. Arms Caches Inspected
Two international envoys, one from Finland and the other from Africa, inspected a number of the guerrillas' secret arms dumps, a significant step in advancing the Northern Ireland peace settlement. The inspections fulfilled a promise made by the I.R.A. in May in response to demands that it move toward dismantling its arsenal in exchange for Britain's restoring the authority of the new Catholic-Protestant power-sharing Northern Ireland government. A3
 
Text of Third Secret of Fatima
The Vatican issued a photocopy of the manuscript of the long undisclosed prophecy that has fascinated Fatima conspiracy theorists for decades. The Vatican revealed its interpretation last month, that the prophecy referred to the 1981 assassination attempt on Pope John Paul II, but controversy continued. A10
 
Allies Were Told of Nazi Plans
British and American intelligence agents had information in 1943 that could have helped save Italian Jews from a death camp, historians said, citing declassified documents. The historians said Western officials might have been able to warn Jews in Rome about Nazi plans. A4
 
Kremlin Reversal on Chechnya
The Kremlin said the attacks on Chechnya would continue, one day after a top commander announced a halt to artillery and air strikes in the breakaway province. The reversal raised new questions about the military's pronouncements and was a setback for a government effort to promote understanding of its military campaign in the West. A9
 
Caution at Democracy Meeting
The French foreign minister dampened the celebratory tone of a conference on democracy in Poland, saying that imposing democracy on a country could have the opposite result. An American official responded that the purpose of the meeting was to have countries that chose democracy help one another. A6
 
A List of Tax Shelters
The 29-member Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development issued a list of 35 places, mostly exotic island getaways, that have tax laws intended to attract assets from companies and people who want to evade tax payments or potential tax liabilities in their home countries. The organization identified 47 other places with laws it found potentially harmful. A7
 
World Bank Self-Criticism
An internal inquiry delivered a scathing assessment that the World Bank violated its own rules when it rushed to approve a Chinese poverty-reduction plan that involved relocating 58,000 poor farmers on the edge of Tibet. The project raised a storm of protest. A7
 
World Briefing A8
 
NATIONAL A14-21
 
Court Upholds Miranda Rule As Part of the 'Culture'
The Supreme Court, voting 7 to 2, reaffirmed the Miranda decision on the required police warnings to suspects about their rights. In an opinion by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist, the court said that because the 1966 Miranda decision had "announced a constitutional rule" a statute by which Congress sought to overrule it was itself unconstitutional. A1
 
The court declared New Jersey's hate crime law unconstitutional, on the twin grounds that it improperly permitted the judge, rather than the jury, to make the crucial finding that the crime was motivated by bias, and that it did not require proof of that beyond a reasonable doubt. A19
 
New Jersey officials said they would bring the law into compliance. B5
 
The Supreme Court invalidated California's blanket primary, saying it stripped political parties of the ability to control their own nominating process and define their identity. A19
 
U.S. Surplus Projection Rises
President Clinton raised his projection of the budget surplus by nearly $1.3 trillion for the next decade. A1
 
House Vote on Gun Safety Deal
The House, voting 201 to 196, rejected an effort that would have prevented the Justice Department from spending any money to enact or enforce an agreement between the Clinton administration and Smith & Wesson on marketing and safety measures. A16
 
Bush Would Split I.N.S.
Gov. George W. Bush proposed the splitting of the Immigration and Naturalization Service into two separate agencies, one to deal with law enforcement and the other to provide services to immigrants. In a separate speech at a C.O.R.E. gathering in Manhattan, he called for financing mentoring programs for children whose parents are in prison. A16
 
Last Try by Elian Relatives
The Miami relatives of Elian Gonzalez asked the Supreme Court to block the boy's return to Cuba, pending a formal appeal. If the court denies the request or declines to take up the issue, Elian will be free to return to Cuba after 4 p.m. tomorrow. A14
 
Drug Price Rise Hits Elderly
Spending on prescription drugs increased a record 17.4 percent last year, and elderly people experienced the largest cost increases, a study by a drug benefits company said. A16
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-8
 
Police Discipline Officer They Say Ignored Complaint
A 10-year veteran of the police force, Officer Donna Gaudino, 40, was suspended for what officials said was her failure to aid a teenager who said he was sexually abused in Greenwich Village after the annual Gay and Lesbian Pride March on Sunday. B1
 
Power Cuts on East Side
Problems with feeder cables led Con Edison to reduce power by 8 percent to an Upper East Side area with 76,000 customers. Power was cut off to six buildings, and two hospitals and the Metropolitan Museum of Art were asked to switch to their own generators. Power usage in the city for the day was the third highest on record, the utility said. Power was restored by 11 p.m. B1
 
Study on Welfare Reduction
A study financed by the United Way and focused on an Upper Manhattan welfare office found that of 174 families who reported having problems with welfare benefits, 93 percent had either been wrongly denied benefits or had wrongly had them cut off. B3
 
SCIENCE TIMES F1-14
 
The Human Blueprint
Two rival groups of scientists said in a joint announcement that they had deciphered the set of genetic instructions that defines the human organism. Understanding the human genome is expected to revolutionize the practice of medicine. A1
 
Ebola Without the Symptoms
The Ebola virus, which has caused deaths from high fever and bleeding in African outbreaks, can also infect without producing illness, African and European scientists reported. A9
 
FASHION B9
 
SPORTS D1-7
 
Yanks Switch Focus to Sosa
The Yankees ended an effort to acquire the slugger Juan Gonzalez from Detroit but were said to have stepped up their effort to get Sammy Sosa from the Chicago Cubs. D1
 
Nets Said to Settle on Coach
The Nets are expected to announce that their new coach will be Byron Scott, an assistant coach with the Sacramento Kings. D1
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
No Rate Rise Foreseen
Economists and analysts, saying the economy is showing enough signs of slowing, expect the Fed to leave interest rate policy unchanged when it meets today and tomorrow. C1
 
Money Store to Be Shut Down
First Union said it would close the Money Store, a second-mortgage lender promoted by the retired athletes Phil Rizzuto and Jim Palmer. It also said it would get out of or scale back other businesses. C1
 
European Hurdle to Phone Deal
The top antitrust officer of the European Commission said he would seek to block WorldCom from buying Sprint unless the companies significantly altered terms of the deal. C2
 
New President of ABC TV
ABC named Alex Wallau, one of its longest-serving executives and the network's boxing analyst, president of the ABC Television Network. C27
 
Business Digest C1
 
OBITUARIES C28-29
 
Lucien Laurin
The trainer of Secretariat, the 1973 Triple Crown winner who was perhaps the fastest thoroughbred that ever raced, was 88. C29
 
ARTS E1-10
 
EDITORIAL A22-23
 
Editorials: The court reaffirms Miranda; a historic chance for conservation; ebbing confidence in Tokyo.
 
Columns: Thomas L. Friedman, Gail Collins.
 
Crossword E6
TV Listings E10
Public Lives B2
Weather D8 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (79%); TIBET (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (76%); 

CITY: ROME, ITALY (76%); 

COMPANY: WORLD BANK SELF-CRITICISM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (92%); NORTHERN IRELAND (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); FRANCE (79%); TIBET (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); POLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); ITALY (76%); ROME, ITALY (76%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); POLITICS (90%); HISTORY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); INSPECTIONS (79%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); TAX LAW (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (76%); RELIGION (74%); PEACE PROCESS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); MIRANDA RULE (70%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%); ASSASSINATION (69%); INTERNAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); TAX CONSULTING (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); SUPREME COURTS (60%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (60%); 

PERSON: POPE JOHN PAUL II (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



678 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Raises Estimate of Surplus And the Stakes on How to Use It

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
President Clinton raised his projection of the federal budget surplus today by nearly $1.3 trillion for the next decade, putting a breathtaking sum of new money on the table as the two parties and their presidential candidates battle over tax cuts, spending and how to prepare for the nation's long-term challenges.
"How we use these surpluses in this moment of prosperity will determine America's future for decades to come," Mr. Clinton told reporters in the Rose Garden. 
 The new estimate put up for political grabs an amount of money two and a half times greater than what the White House had projected less than five months ago.
The robust forecast is the latest result of a strong economy that is rewriting the budget outlook on an almost continuous basis by recasting projections for years to come, even though events could easily undermine those projections.
And those assumptions are promoting an economy that has shown tentative signs of slowing in recent months.
The new estimate brought the total surplus projection to slightly less than $4.2 trillion for 2001 through 2010.
Of that, $2.3 trillion is projected to come from the Social Security system and is considered by both parties to be off limits for tax cuts or spending programs.
The rest -- almost $1.9 trillion, up from $746 billion under the White House's last estimate, in February -- is projected to come from general tax receipts, and is the pot of money that Democrats and Republicans are fighting over.
Seeking to frame the debate over how the money should be used, Mr. Clinton immediately proposed a deal to divide part of the windfall with the Republican majority in Congress.
Mr. Clinton said he would agree to a Republican proposal to cut taxes for married couples by roughly $250 billion over 10 years if the Republicans would go along with his $253 billion plan to add prescription drug coverage to the Medicare system of health insurance for the elderly.
In setting out his budget framework, Mr. Clinton also stressed that he would put the government on a path to eliminate the $3.5 trillion national debt by 2012, a year ahead of his previous schedule, and to use part of the non-Social Security surplus to help extend the solvency of Medicare.
The initial reaction to Mr. Clinton's proposed deal from the two top Republican leaders, Speaker J. Dennis Hastert of Illinois and Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, fell somewhere between skeptical and dismissive.
Despite Mr. Clinton's clear desire to bring prescription drug coverage to Medicare on his terms before leaving office in seven months, it was unclear whether the two sides would even be able to negotiate during an election season in which they are eager to highlight their differences.
Still, as Mr. Clinton's offer suggested, the surplus, if it materializes, is big enough to give both parties much of what they want, and its sheer size has left Democrats and Republicans alike struggling to get a handle on the politics of potential plenty.
For the last several years, divided government has led to gridlock on tax cuts and major new spending initiatives.
The latest round of surplus numbers -- which are likely to be followed within days or weeks by a similar set of new projections from the Congressional Budget Office -- will only raise the stakes in the election, with both sides asserting that they have a more prudent plan for making the most of the fiscal bounty.
The campaign of Gov. George W. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said the new figures vindicated his contention that the nation can afford the large tax cut he has proposed and still have money to create private investment accounts within Social Security, improve education and health care, build a national missile defense system and reduce the debt.
Vice President Al Gore's campaign said the new figures highlighted the benefits of fiscal responsibility and the contrast between his emphasis on shoring up Social Security and Medicare and Mr. Bush's push for a tax cut that would give most of its benefits to the wealthy.
The new surplus projections are to some extent subject to changes in the economy, and any nasty economic surprise could dim the chances of the surpluses materializing.
Mr. Clinton acknowledged as much today. He said it would be a mistake to allocate all the projected surplus at this point, and he proposed a $500 billion "reserve fund" to be held aside until the fiscal situation becomes clearer and voters send a message about what they want to do with the money.
"The projections could be wrong," Mr. Clinton said. "They could be right. That's why we shouldn't spend it all now. And moreover, we're having a debate in which the two candidates have very different notions about what should be done with this moment of prosperity, and the American people ought to have some say in this."
At the same time, Mr. Clinton said, the nation could not be "blind to the fact that we have an enormous opportunity here."
The two parties have already agreed that the Social Security surplus should go only to reducing the national debt or shoring up the retirement system to help it weather the aging of the population.
Nearly all the gain in the numbers released today was in the non-Social Security part of the budget, and Mr. Clinton's aides said the surplus projection was driven up by a combination of the economy's strength and an expectation that at least some of the economic improvement would be long-lasting.
Since late last year, they said, the economy has performed substantially better than anticipated.
Because the economy is bigger now than previously foreseen, it would generate larger-than-anticipated tax revenue even if economic growth from this point on does not exceed the rates that the White House had assumed earlier this year.
But the White House's Office of Management and Budget also revised upward its economic growth assumptions, reflecting a general consensus among economists that the United States is capable of higher rates of noninflationary growth than previously thought.
In the 10 years covered by the projection, the administration now assumes average economic growth of 3 percent a year, up from 2.7 percent estimated by its previous budget projection, in February.
Many economists think that the nation's potential noninflationary growth rate is actually closer to 4 percent.
Of the total increase of $1.275 trillion in the 10-year surplus projection, $984 billion comes from the improved economic outlook.
The projection also includes $375 billion in additional revenue during the decade from technical changes in the estimates of tax receipts. Those increases are offset by an $84 billion reduction in projected receipts stemming from legislation passed so far this year.
Among the biggest technical changes is an upward revision in personal income tax revenues, in part from a surge in capital gains that taxpayers are reaping from stocks they have bought or been awarded by employers as part of their compensation.
In offering to swap a tax reduction for his prescription drug plan, Mr. Clinton was to some extent insulating Mr. Gore and Democrats in Congress from criticism by Republicans, who accuse them of opposing popular tax cuts.
Republicans have been pressing to address what they call the "marriage penalty," the quirk in the tax code that leaves many two-income couples paying more in taxes than they would if they remained single. But the bills they have proposed would give tax cuts to nearly all married couples, even if they do not pay a penalty.
Mr. Clinton also seemed intent on sparking one last round of negotiations with Congressional leaders.
"This is a proposal for true compromise," he said. "It asks each party to accept some of the positions of the other party in the name of progress."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton said yesterday that the $3.5 trillion national debt should be eliminated by 2012. (Susana Raab for The New York Times)(pg. A20)
 
Chart: "UPDATE: Ever-Growing Surplus Projections"
The Surplus Is Revised Upward Again -- Yesterday President Clinton announced a $1.3 trillion increase in the projected overall budget surplus over 10 years. Shown here are cumulative projections for the non-Social Security surplus.
 
Greater Projected Tax Revenues Is One Factor
 
1.Changes to budget projections since February, in billions.
2.Changes in projected overall surplus ; Changes in revenue projections
 
A Rosier Economic Forecast Is Another
 
Projected change in gross domestic product from the previous year.
(Sources: Office of Management and Budget; Congressional Budget Office)(pg. A20)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TAXATION; MEDICARE; HEALTH INSURANCE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); SOCIAL SECURITY (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MARRIAGES; FINANCES; NATIONAL DEBT (US) BUDGETS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET FORECASTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (85%); HEALTH INSURANCE (85%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (71%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (67%); AGING (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (66%); MARRIAGE (62%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STEVENSON, RICHARD W BILL CLINTON (94%); TRENT LOTT (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



679 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Archbishop Plans Frequent Learning Visits to Parishes

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

 BODY:
In his first news conference since his installation as New York's ninth archbishop last week, Archbishop Edward M. Egan said yesterday that he planned frequent visits to parishes throughout the archdiocese, as a way of grasping the troubles and strengths of the vast network of churches and schools he now heads, and which he is expected to streamline.
The archbishop, speaking on the eve of his first trip to the Vatican as head of the Roman Catholic Church in New York, also called for an end to the American military's use of the Puerto Rican island of Vieques for bombing practice, and said, in several ways, that he valued Hispanic culture and communities. 
 Comprising 36 percent of the archdiocese's 2.4 million Catholics, Hispanics represent the single largest ethnic block of the archdiocese, which covers Manhattan, the Bronx, Staten Island and seven counties north of the city.
The archbishop, who is expected to be made a cardinal later this year, is to fly to Rome today. On Thursday, the feast day of St. Peter, the archbishop is to receive the white woolen pallium with black crosses, a vestment that he will wear around his neck when he says Mass.
The pallium, dipped in an urn over the spot where many Catholics believe St. Peter is buried, is a symbol of the pope's spiritual link to St. Peter, and of the archbishop's tie to St. Peter and to the pope.
Though Archbishop Egan is running the New York Archdiocese now, Bridgeport, Conn., his last assignment, appeared to remain strong in his heart and mind. Several times yesterday, the archbishop referred to the practices and accomplishments that marked his dozen years there, and the entourage for his trip to Rome will include auxiliary bishops and other officials from both the Bridgeport and New York dioceses.
In response to a question, the archbishop said that he believed the priesthood was getting a "bad rap" as a result of lawsuits alleging that five priests in the Bridgeport Diocese had abused children. In his first substantive public statements on the suits, Archbishop Egan acknowledged that "there have been cases that do have substance."
But in contrast with guidelines from the National Conference of Catholic Bishops urging bishops to minister to the victims of sexual abuse by priests, Archbishop Egan offered no words of comfort or apology to more than a score of plaintiffs who are suing his former diocese for $44 million. Most of the abuse alleged in the lawsuits occurred in the 1970's and 80's. The suits have been going on for more than seven years, and the archbishop said he believed some of the accusations were groundless.
"The fact that the amount of attention given to it, when it's a Catholic priest vs. when it's a minister or a rabbi or the school system or the court system, does sort of upset one," the archbishop said. "Why is the focus always on this particular issue? Yes, it has done damage."
He described that damage as difficulty in recruiting priests and maintaining an esprit de corps, and he said he believed that psychological screening of candidates for the priesthood made abuse less likely nowadays. "I believe the number-one step is, we want to strengthen the number of priests we have in this diocese," he said, "to get our priests to have a sense of oneness, a sense of unity, a sense of mutual support, and of dealing with this other element."
On other issues, however, Archbishop Egan avoided wading into controversy. He did not rule out closing schools or parishes in the archdiocese to reflect demographic or economic changes. Asked whether he had a "personal commitment" to keeping Catholic schools open in minority neighborhoods, the archbishop said: "Yes. However, I do believe we have to stay within our financial possibilities."
He said keeping some schools open in poor areas of the Bridgeport Diocese took "fancy footwork over the first couple of years," and he added that he was in no rush to shutter Catholic schools in New York.
"Give me a little time," Archbishop Egan said, adding that he was "not negative about these schools."
"The schools mean an awful lot to me," he said.
Addressing speculation that the pope would like to see the head of New York's archdiocese made a cardinal, perhaps this fall, the archbishop said, "I think the Holy Father should be encouraged in this way of thinking." Cardinals make up the highest rank in the Roman Catholic church after the pope.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Archbishop Edward M. Egan yesterday during his first news conference since he was installed as New York's ninth archbishop last week. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROME, ITALY (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (86%); 

COMPANY: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (92%); ITALY (90%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (86%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ROME, ITALY (90%); BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (86%); 

SUBJECT: RELIGION (96%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (94%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (94%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); LITIGATION (85%); PRESS CONFERENCES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); CHRISTIAN HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); BOMBINGS (70%); CHILD ABUSE (61%); SEX OFFENSES (60%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; EGAN, EDWARD M (ARCHBISHOP) EDWARD M EGAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



680 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
MANHATTAN: HOSPITAL BONDS DOWNGRADED
Standard & Poor's has lowered its rating of Beth Israel Medical Center's bonds to junk-bond status. The bond-rating agency also placed the hospital on its list of institutions whose finances warrant close attention by bond holders. Standard & Poor's cited the hospital's weak 1999 operating performance and its shortage of ready cash. Yesterday's downgrade to BB- puts the bonds in the junk category. Jennifer Steinhauer (NYT) 

MANHATTAN: BENEFIT FUNDS IN TROUBLE
Two benefit funds for New York City correction officers could slip into insolvency this year because of excessive spending by the union that runs them, Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, left, reported yesterday. The comptroller, in two audits, concluded that the Correction Officers' Benevolent Association was spending far too much on employees' legal bills and prescription drugs for retirees. Norman Seabrook, the union president, said the union was providing the legal assistance and prescription drug coverage its members deserved. Eric Lipton (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: UNION DRIVE AT LAUNDRIES
The nation's largest apparel workers union, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees, announced yesterday that it planned a unionization drive at 15 industrial laundries in New York City. The drive, which includes the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Union, will focus first on Waltons, a Bronx-based laundry that handles the linens for several Manhattan hotels. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: ETHICS OFFICER FOR UNION
Lee Saunders, the trustee running District Council 37, New York City's largest union of municipal workers, has appointed Barbara C. Deinhardt the ethical practices officer. The 125,000-member council has been embarrassed recently by the indictment of more than two dozen officials on charges of embezzlement and vote fraud. Ms. Deinhardt, a former general counsel of the state's Department of Labor, will draft rules to enforce the ethics code and to investigate violations. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
GARDEN CITY: POWER FAILURE
A power failure plunged the Nassau County Legislature into darkness yesterday afternoon. The cause was apparently a small fire at a Long Island Power Authority substation. About 7,400 customers lost electricity around 2:30 p.m., but the fire was extinguished and power restored to most customers within three hours. Nina Siegal (NYT)
 
ALBANY: BUDGET DIRECTOR NAMED
Carole Stone, who has been the acting director of the state's Division of the Budget since Jan. 1, was appointed state budget director by Gov. George E. Pataki yesterday. She had been deputy director of the Division of the Budget since 1995 before taking over when her boss, Robert King, was named chancellor of the State University of New York. She is a native of Garden City. (AP)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
TRENTON: OFF-TRACK BETTING
Moving to help New Jersey's horse-racing industry attract gambling dollars lost to casinos, the State Senate's Economic Growth, Agriculture and Tourism Committee yesterday approved a bill to allow off-track and phone-in betting. The bill, which has already been approved by the committee's Assembly counterpart could go to a full vote on Thursday, the last session before the Legislature's summer recess. It would let bettors watching races on television, for example, phone in bets from home. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
WOODBRIDGE: NEW TRAIN STATION
New Jersey Transit and Amtrak plan to build a $31 million station and improve platforms at Metropark. In the last five years, New Jersey Transit ridership has grown 17 percent and Amtrak ridership is up 40 percent at Metropark, which is on the Northeast Corridor line. New Jersey Transit will pay the $11 million cost of the platforms and an expansion of the passenger dropoff area and will share the $20 million cost of the station, which is scheduled for completion in 2004. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
NEWARK: AIRPORT RISK INDICATED
Air traffic controllers at Newark International Airport have asked the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to eliminate runway intersections created by a $100 million project intended to improve traffic flow. More than $100 million was spent since 1997 on lengthening runways at the airport, which created the intersections to help manage the 1,300 takeoffs and landings each day. Daniel D'Agostino, head of the Newark division of the National Air Traffic Controllers Association, said that planes might cross as many as five times for one takeoff. The Port Authority said it would study the request. (AP)
 
NEWARK: OFFICERS PLEAD NOT GUILTY
Five Orange police officers pleaded not guilty yesterday to charges that they violated the civil rights of a man they mistakenly believed had killed a colleague. The man, Earl Faison, died in custody. Judge John C. Lifland of Federal District Court set trial for Aug. 29. A federal indictment accuses the five of beating, robbing and pepper-spraying Mr. Faison after he was arrested and handcuffed last year, and of then attempting to cover up their actions. (AP)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
HARTFORD: PARADE ARRESTS
Ten people were arrested in Hartford in connection with disturbances that followed the annual Puerto Rican Day parade, the police said yesterday. Crowd members damaged cars and pelted officers with rocks and bottles in the Park Street area Sunday night, the police said, but no injuries were reported. The police said many of the thousands of people gathered in the area were intoxicated. (AP)
 
HARTFORD: SHERIFFS FILE SUIT
Connecticut's eight elected county sheriffs filed a federal civil rights lawsuit today claiming that a new state law interferes with their constitutional right to free expression and assembly. The lawsuit is the opening volley in what is expected to be a long campaign to influence a statewide referendum in November on whether to abolish the sheriff system. The new law prohibits the county sheriffs from "directly or indirectly" soliciting campaign contributions from any sheriff's deputy or employee, members of the employees' immediate families, or anyone who does business with the sheriffs' departments. It follows years of scandals and allegations of corruption and incompetence.Paul Zielbauer (NYT)
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (52%); UNITE HERE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITE HERE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES LABOR UNIONS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); BONDS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); POWER FAILURES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ETHICS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); EMBEZZLEMENT (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); HOTEL STAFF (73%); TEXTILES (71%); LINEN SUPPLY (71%); LAUNDRY & LINEN SUPPLY SERVICES (71%); INDUSTRIAL LAUNDRIES (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (68%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (68%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (67%); LAWYERS (66%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (66%); RESTAURANTS (65%); COUNTIES (64%); INDICTMENTS (63%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (60%); HORSE RACING (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



681 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 27, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 110 words

HEADLINE: National News Briefs;
Group Sues to Block Paid Parental Leave

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
The Chamber of Commerce sued the Labor Department today, seeking the repeal of regulations that allow states to offer paid leave to new parents using unemployment benefit dollars.
"They're putting a fund at risk that was set up for unemployed workers," said the vice president of the chamber, Randy Johnson. 
 The regulations, ordered by President Clinton and written by the Labor Department, would allow states to offer unemployment benefits to parents of newborn or newly adopted children who choose to take up to 12 weeks of leave guaranteed under the 1993 Family and Medical Leave Act.
Agency officials did not immediately comment on the lawsuit. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES; LABOR DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHAMBER OF COMMERCE OF THE UNITED STATES; LABOR DEPARTMENT UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; FAMILY LEAVES; SUITS AND LITIGATION; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; STATES (US) FAMILY LEAVE (92%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); LITIGATION (88%); PARENTING (88%); FAMILY (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (87%); PENSIONS & BENEFITS LAW (85%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (85%); ADOPTION (85%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2000



682 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Workplace 

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: The Search for Encores to a Nonevent

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
A year ago, they were the highest-profile technology managers ever, making presentations to top executives and corporate boards, testifying before Congress and spending billions of dollars as the world worked feverishly to avert computer chaos as the year 2000 arrived.
When it did arrive with almost no notable disruptions anywhere, they were relieved, proud and, they acknowledge, surprised. Far sooner than most had expected, it was time to move on. 
 But where? With nothing like Y2K in corporate history, there was no obvious next step for most of those who had managed the biggest repair projects.
Now, nearly six months into the Y2K hereafter, some credit their Y2K assignments with giving their careers a priceless lift. Others think their involvement in what ended up looking to the public like a ridiculously hyped nonevent has held them back.
Most have gone on to e-commerce jobs that may lack the visibility of the Y2K crusade but put them on the cutting edge of Internet development. A few headed for the exit ramp, like Paul H. Couvillion, who ran DuPont's Year 2000 project for more than two years. Mr. Couvillion, 59, is wallpapering his home in the North Carolina mountains, honing his golf game and spending time with grandchildren as he uses up vacation days on his way to early retirement from DuPont in August.
"When I got down to the house, I found one of the clocks had stopped at 11:59 on Dec. 31," he said. "I'm keeping it as a reminder of what would have happened if the work hadn't been done."
Those not looking ahead to retirement had wondered from the start what Y2K would do to their careers. There was no obvious upside in making sure that computers could recognize the digits 00 in dates as the year 2000 rather than 1900 or an invalid entry. The date flaws, if not found and fixed, seemed likely to wreak havoc on the economy and government services. But in the end it was all about dodging a bullet, not creating something new. In short, failure would bring blame for disaster; few thought that success would result in the kind of profit-creating work that normally enhances careers.
No wonder some of Paula Larkin's colleagues reacted as if she had been handed a time bomb when she was named to oversee J. P. Morgan's Year 2000 project in 1996.
"They told me it would be a career-killer," Ms. Larkin recalled recently. "They said that spotlighting people who weren't delivering would make too many enemies within Morgan and that there would be too many outside forces beyond my control."
Fortunately for her, her superiors appreciated the ways she used the Year 2000 challenge to update and streamline the bank's technology and to strengthen its relations with customers, other banks and regulators. In March, Ms. Larkin emerged with a promotion to managing director, a two-month paid sabbatical and a choice of attractive assignments.
"Y2K clearly put me over the top," Ms. Larkin said of her promotion. Before starting on her new assignment as project manager for LabMorgan, the bank's new incubator for Internet-based financial businesses, Ms. Larkin used the time off taking golf lessons and renovating a home on Cape Cod.
Lorraine Gornick felt far less appreciated. A year ago, Ms. Gornick was the longest-serving manager on Sears, Roebuck & Company's Y2K project. She was also the giant retailer's representative to the National Retail Federation's nationwide program to avert panic buying and other Y2K-related disruptions.
So, when she decided to resign to start her own consulting business after wrapping up the repair project, she expected at least to get an attractive counteroffer. It never came, leading her to conclude that her bosses had not paid much attention to her work or put much thought into her future. To reward herself for five years of Y2K labor, she started her firm, Strategy Alliance, as a part-time business to allow time for singing with two choirs in the Chicago area.
"It seems so long ago," she said of Y2K work before leaving this week for a choir festival in Austria. "We knew there wouldn't be much recognition if it went well."
Sears, for its part, says it promised early in 1999 that every member of its Y2K team would get a "meaningful" assignment once the high-risk period was over and that those who stayed found good opportunities. "No one knew where they were going to land at the time she left," said Janice R. Drummond, a Sears spokeswoman.
Many longtime Y2K managers, like Jay Abshier at Texaco Inc., landed in computer security, one of the hottest computer industry niches. The largest contingent, though, moved into cyberspace. Donald Rose, who oversaw Year 2000 preparations for Intel's factories, for example, became co-manager of a new Intel business that markets Internet services to the health care industry. And Del Clark, head of Phillips Petroleum's Y2K project, became director of global e-business overseeing the company's participation on projects like the Web-based procurement exchange that Phillips and 13 other oil and chemical companies set up this year.
"The pent-up demand was in the e-commerce environment," said Brian Robbins, a senior vice president who managed Chase Manhattan's Y2K project and who saw e-business as the logical place to make a splash. "What else could you go into?"
Mr. Robbins began talking about his interest in seeing the bank use Internet technology more efficiently with Steven L. Sheinheit, his boss, as the two shuttled among Chase command posts during the New Year's weekend. He ended up running a new 125-member unit called eSpace Services, which provides technology to Chase business units to help them develop both internal and external Internet applications.
The Internet assignments, like Y2K, often cross traditional boundaries and require tough choices about priorities, according to managers like Brian Cohen, who directed New York City's computer preparations and was named this year as executive director of the city's new E-Government Office, which helps agencies go online. "I have a shirt that says 'Only (blank) days left,' so you can keep reducing the number in the blank," Mr. Cohen said. "It was given to me for Y2K, but it works in my new job, too."
Still, many managers found that prime e-business jobs had been snapped up by others while they were tied up on Y2K work, according to James Devlin, Citibank's Year 2000 project director. And some were sidelined from bidding on promising jobs created by major mergers in the last few years.
"Given what they know now," Mr. Devlin said, "most people I talk to say they wouldn't have stayed with Y2K."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Among the technology managers who successfully moved on from Y2K is Brian Cohen, director of New York City's E-Government Office. He says this shirt from his old job fits the new one too. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: J P MORGAN DELAWARE (51%); J P MORGAN DELAWARE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; TWO THOUSAND (YEAR); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION EXECUTIVES (90%); YEAR 2000 PROBLEM (89%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); EARLY RETIREMENT (74%); CHILDREN (72%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (65%); 

PERSON: COHEN, BRIAN; FEDER, BARNABY J PAULA LARKIN (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



683 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 11; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: MANAGEMENT;
In the Boom, Desperately Seeking Bean Counters

BYLINE: By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
When jobs are plentiful but applicants scarce, where do accountants go to drum up enthusiasm for a profession whose very name evokes images of numbers-crunching nerds with penholders in their shirt pockets?
As it turns out, they now go to the one place where hostility to all things uncool burns hottest: high schools. 
 Competing for the smallest pool of college graduates of accounting programs in more than a decade, many of the nation's largest accounting firms and associations have begun grooming talent at secondary schools, the latest battlefield in an industrywide recruitment war. With scholarships and internships in hand, they are hoping to resuscitate a field that is rapidly losing conscripts to the wonders of technology and the glamour of being an entrepreneur.
"We're making big investments in the development of a high school pipeline," said James Hayes, a partner at PricewaterhouseCoopers who sends recruiters to roughly 3,000 schools a year to scout promising students. "High school may almost be too late, and at some point we have to start looking at middle schools."
Which is not to say that the Big Five accounting firms -- Arthur Andersen, Deloitte & Touche, Ernst & Young, KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers -- have stopped their hiring efforts on college campuses. In fact, driven by a boom in business, they are crafting ever-wilder ways of grabbing college students' attention and winning their loyalty. Ernst & Young now sends its interns to Disney World, while Arthur Andersen sponsors a national tax Olympics every year that awards the winning school $20,000 in scholarships.
But a 23 percent drop in enrollment in college accounting programs since 1996 -- meaning that about 10,000 fewer accounting graduates come into the workplace -- has persuaded many in the industry to focus on still younger students, before they are whisked away by more scintillating majors. Their goal is not to pluck recruits fresh from high school, but to plant the corporate flag and push college-bound students into the field.
"One objective is to get them exposed to careers in accounting," said Allen Boston, a recruiter with Ernst & Young who offers college scholarships to high school students from 15 states. "The other is to get them to know Ernst & Young."
Leading the charge is the profession's primary association, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, which will send an accounting curriculum to about 10,000 high schools this fall.
As much public relations as instruction, the institute's lessons promote accounting across the disciplines, from physics to social studies. History becomes a class on how sleuthing accountants caught Al Capone; chemistry becomes a chance to set the price of an electric car; and so on. Anything, in fact, to topple the stereotype of the humorless drone in a back room.
Some high school students are buying it. Lindsey Whitneck, who graduated from Bristol Central High School in Connecticut this month, says distaste for her course work had soured her on going to college. But after taking classes with one of the accounting curriculum's designers, she took an after-school bookkeeping job last fall and has now enrolled in Central Connecticut State University to major in accounting.
"It's like accounting saved me," Ms. Whitneck said, although she added: "Everyone in my family thinks it's only a bunch of numbers on paper. They just don't understand."
To be sure, such converts remain rare, college professors say. The profession holds a certain appeal in tough times; when jobs are scarce, a certified public accountant is nearly assured employment. In an economy that promises young people fun and riches elsewhere, however, the profession must redouble its recruiting.
College students "don't want to dedicate themselves to the work it takes to get a technical degree," said Sally Jones, an accounting professor at the University of Virginia, where accounting majors have dropped more than 50 percent since 1992, despite rising applications to the business school.
"There's such a demand for business students that they are going to work in start-ups, finance, everything but accounting," she said.
Making matters worse, almost all states now require an extra year of college courses before students can take exams to get a license in accounting. The new rules, adopted at the accounting institute's urging in the late 1980's, only recently went into effect.
"The timing was unfortunate," said Bea Sanders, the institute's academic director. "Ten years ago, no one imagined that there would be a whole new economy drawing on the pool."
The number of first-time takers of C.P.A. exams has fallen 13 percent since 1992, the institute says. And with fewer accountants to choose from, many firms have taken to raiding one another for talent or simply buying smaller practices.
"There's just nobody left to employ," lamented Kim Fantaci, director of the National Association of Certified Public Accounting Firms, an association of 47 small to midsize practices.
Not surprisingly, the shortage has been a boon to salaries. In an April survey of 70 academic disciplines at more than 120 schools, the National Association of Colleges and Employers reported an 8.8 percent increase in starting pay -- now about $37,000 -- for accounting graduates, second only to the gain for information-systems majors.
But accounting salaries still lag behind those in high technology, and firms have proved reluctant to offer stock options, the holy grail of job seekers these days.
"People feel that they are covering their bets better by getting a broader business degree," said Jane Rubin, an accreditation specialist at the International Association for Management Education.
Ms. Rubin supports efforts to arouse teenagers' curiosity, though she thinks programs so far are insufficient. "There's going to have to be a much more comprehensive master P.R. plan than even what's been envisioned so far," she said.
Maybe so, but the Big Five firms still stand to benefit from the early exposure of their profession to young people. "Eventually these kids are going to be adults with businesses who are going to use their services," said Ms. Sanders, the accounting institute's academic director.
The firms themselves have no illusions about their high-school expeditions. Easily distracted, convinced their careers are eons away, teenagers are moving targets, difficult to track through college and beyond, they acknowledge.
But, they add, they have no choice but to take aim at them.
"As difficult as it is, given the number of high schools that are out there, we need to do more," said William Nickey, New York recruiting director for Deloitte & Touche. "Even if the economy slows down, we're always going to need more accountants than we're currently producing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Some high school students are responding to efforts to interest them in accounting. Lindsey Whitneck, for one, found her interest whetted and is enrolled in Central Connecticut State University to major in that field. (Thomas McDonald for The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (91%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (91%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (85%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (66%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); 

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (91%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (91%); ERNST & YOUNG LLP (85%); ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (55%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); CENTRAL CONNECTICUT STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (66%); CONNECTICUT, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; LABOR; INDUSTRY PROFILES; HIRING AND PROMOTION SECONDARY SCHOOLS (91%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); CURRICULA (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (76%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); HISTORY (70%); SPONSORSHIP (69%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (50%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG JAMES A HAYES (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



684 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 27; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Reckonings;
Japan's Memento Mori

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN 

 BODY:
Japan's Liberal Democratic Party is neither liberal nor democratic. Nor is it exactly a party in either the European or American senses: it is more like a coalition of patronage-driven political machines. And it does not exactly have a track record to be proud of, having presided over a decade of stagnation in an economy that was once the wonder of the world.
Yet despite its apparent vulnerability, not to mention the personal unpopularity of Prime Minister Yoshiro Mori, the L.D.P. managed -- just -- to cling to power in last Sunday's election. The main reason was that the opposition seemed, if anything, even more clueless than the bumbling Mr. Mori about what to do next. And that is something we should all find disturbing. 
 Whenever I write about Japan, I get quizzical letters from Americans who don't see why they should care. The world's second-largest economy is neither doing well enough to provide villains for a Michael Crichton novel nor badly enough to pose any clear and present danger to prosperity elsewhere. So why should anyone without a direct financial stake be interested in its troubles?
The answer -- the reason professional macroeconomists are grimly fascinated by Japan's economic malaise, and you should at least be interested -- is that Japan's sad tale is a reminder that the roots of prosperity may be shallower than we like to think. It's not just the historical parallels, though Japan in the late 80's shared many of the features of America in the early 00's: high growth without inflation, technological dynamism, extremely high stock valuations that analysts somehow managed to rationalize. What is really unsettling about Japan is not so much the fact that it went wrong but the way it went wrong.
If you had polled serious economists a decade ago, and asked whether it was possible for a modern economy to experience a decade of "demand-side" stagnation -- productive capacity going unused because consumers and businesses could not be persuaded to spend enough -- I am sure that 99 percent of them would have answered "no." We had learned the lessons of the Great Depression; never again would the leaders of a major economy make the mistakes that allowed that slump to go on so long. Even now a fair number of my colleagues seem to think that a slump that cannot be cured with a sufficiently low interest rate is theoretically impossible. Yet that's the reality in Japan, and if it can happen there, why not here?
Admittedly, Japan does not look like a nation in the midst of depression, mainly because we have learned something these past 70 years: instead of trying to balance its budget in the face of a slump, the L.D.P. has engaged in huge "pump-priming" deficit spending. Or maybe that's a bad metaphor. Japan's fiscal efforts don't call to mind a farmer getting his pump running so much as sailors frantically bailing out a leaky boat. So far they have succeeded in keeping the boat from sinking, giving themselves time -- but time to do what? Neither the L.D.P. nor the opposition seems to have any idea.
The only Japanese policy makers who have a clear vision of what to do next are its central bankers, who have been preparing the public for the imminent end of their "zero interest rate" policy. Why insist on the need to raise interest rates when the economy is still so depressed, when independent economists are warning that Japan may well slip back into recession later this year? To force structural change: the Bank of Japan believes that it must raise interest rates to force the private sector to become more efficient. This is just a modern version of "Liquidate labor, liquidate stocks, liquidate the farmers, liquidate real estate. . . . It will purge the rottenness out of the system" -- the disastrous advice that Herbert Hoover received from Andrew Mellon, his Treasury secretary.
And that is the other reminder from Japan. In the United States we have come to rely on Alan Greenspan's knack for doing the right thing in an emergency. After seeing the financial crises of both 1987 and 1998 turn out to be manageable, we have come to take sensible, even heroic action on the part of key economic officials for granted. But in reality a good Greenspan is hard to find. So Japan's troubles are a reminder of the lack of wisdom with which the world is usually governed. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PATRONAGE LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); TRENDS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (64%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: MORI, YOSHIRO (PRIME MIN); KRUGMAN, PAUL PAUL KRUGMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



685 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 746 words

HEADLINE: The Big City;
Losing Money On the Birds Or Bombers

BYLINE: By JOHN TIERNEY 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE

 BODY:
WHEN a politician anywhere in America wants to build a stadium, it is customary to make a pilgrimage here to Oriole Park at Camden Yards. New York City officials have already performed the ritual twice. In 1998 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani came to watch the Yankees play and personally inspected the luxury sky boxes.
"This is an enormously, an enormously successful project," Mr. Giuliani said then. "When you look at the development that it's helped in part to energize, it really is quite impressive." 
 Yes, the development on the nearby waterfront is impressive: sold-out hotels, bustling stores and restaurants, promenades crowded with tourists. But politicians might get a truer picture if they came when the Orioles are out of town, like this last week in June. The crowds are still here. The hotels routinely sell out on summer weekends even when there is no game.
The crowds were here long before the stadium opened in 1992. This week the city is celebrating the 20th anniversary of Harborplace, the complex of stores and food stands dedicated to what urban planners call "recreational shopping." It was Harborplace, plus a new aquarium and other tourist attractions, that revived the waterfront. The Orioles play only 81 games per year, but recreational shopping never stops.
Maryland taxpayers spent $200 million on Oriole Park, and $210 million more for the adjacent football stadium, which opened in 1998. New York officials have been contemplating both kinds of stadiums for the West Side of Manhattan, at a cost of $1 billion each.
Politicians in New York envision hotels springing up next to a stadium, but that's not happening in Baltimore. There are still warehouses near the Ravens' football stadium. A new hotel is being built, but it's across the harbor -- far from the stadiums but close to stores and tourist attractions.
Oriole Park is a financial success story if you compare it with the football stadium, or with almost any other new stadium. (Cleveland's baseball stadium is the other one held up as a model.) But even it is a money-losing proposition, according to a study by two economists at Johns Hopkins University, Bruce W. Hamilton and Peter Kahn.
"If you're getting more people in the ballpark, you're taking them away from bars and and bowling alleys and places like that," Dr. Hamilton said. Nationally, new stadiums hurt the economy by diverting investment from more productive enterprises. Locally, they make sense only by attracting money from out-of-towners.
"New York City, like Baltimore, can draw people from nearby jurisdictions," Dr. Hamilton said. "You can rip off people from New Jersey just like we can try to rip off people from Washington. The problem is that they're not going to bring in enough money from New Jersey to justify spending a billion dollars on a stadium."
ATTENDANCE at the Orioles' games rose after they moved to Camden Yards, with about 70 percent of the new revenue coming from out of state. The result, according to the Hopkins study, has been new jobs and tax revenues worth about $3 million annually, which is $11 million less than what the stadium costs taxpayers. That works out to a loss of about $15 annually for each household in Baltimore.
For Baltimoreans, that may seem a small price to pay for a source of entertainment, pride and civic unity. "If there had been a referendum," Dr. Hamilton said, "asking people in the Baltimore area if they were willing to pay $15 a household to keep the Orioles from leaving, I think it would have passed." Voters would have assumed that the stadium was essential to keep the Orioles from fleeing to a better deal elsewhere in the country.
But fans in the New York area don't have to worry much about their teams' heading to an upstart city in the Sun Belt. The teams are already in the biggest and most lucrative market in the country. A team can cross the Hudson in search of a better deal without leaving that market, but any move out of the metropolitan area could be financially disastrous.
"New York has much more bargaining power than Baltimore," Dr. Hamilton said. "Its baseball and football teams are not going to a smaller city somewhere else. It would be more sensible for New York to forge an agreement with New Jersey not to bid against each other. Instead of paying a billion dollars for a new stadium for the Yankees, New York might pay New Jersey a much smaller amount to keep them from trying to steal the Yankees." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BALTIMORE ORIOLES; NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); NEW YORK METS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BALTIMORE ORIOLES; NEW YORK YANKEES; NEW YORK METS NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); NEW YORK YANKEES (84%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (83%); NEW YORK METS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); MARYLAND, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; FINANCES; CAMDEN YARDS (BALTIMORE STADIUM) STADIUMS & ARENAS (93%); CITIES (90%); BASEBALL (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); TOURISM (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (74%); LAND USE PLANNING (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (67%); BOWLING CENTERS (50%); 

PERSON: TIERNEY, JOHN RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



686 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Level of Consumer Confidence Falls From May's Record High

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Consumer confidence fell in June from a record high a month earlier, dampened by higher gasoline prices and the Federal Reserve's efforts to slow the economy, a survey showed today.
The Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to 138.8 this month from 144.7 in May, which had matched January's record. The index's average in the second quarter was the second best ever. 
 While the figures suggest consumer spending is unlikely to slow much in the coming months, "a touch of nervousness is entering into their thinking," said Joel Naroff, president of Naroff Economic Advisors in Holland, Pa.
That is what Fed policy makers, who have raised interest rates six times the last year to slow spending, want to see. The Fed's Open Market Committee, wrapping up its meetings on Wednesday, is expected to leave the federal funds rate on overnight loans between banks unchanged at 6.5 percent.
As for fuel prices. the national average price for regular, self-service gasoline recently reached a record $1.68 a gallon. Fuel prices, particularly the $2-a-gallon cost in the Midwest, "are enough to make a difference if customers view them as permanent," said George Pipas, a spokesman for the Ford Motor Company.
But many customers, he said, "expect prices to go down once the dust settles."
Consumers are also scaling back their vacation and car-buying plans because of higher prices at the pump and rising interest rates.
An index measuring vacations intended within the next six months fell to 44 in June -- the lowest reading since December 1982 -- from 46.3 in May, the survey showed. Plans to travel by car on vacation fell to the lowest level since record-keeping started in 1978.
Consumers planning to buy cars fell to 7.3 percent from 10.1 percent the previous month. Car sales could slow, particularly sales of fuel-guzzling sport utility vehicles and trucks, though there has been little evidence of that year. Sales of sport utility vehicles rose 11 percent in May compared with figures a year earlier, according to the Autodata Corporation.
The confidence index averaged 140.4 in the second quarter, down just barely from the record average of 140.9 in the first three months of the year.
"While latest signals suggest that U.S. economic activity should decelerate in coming months, consumers are not expecting this record-breaking economic expansion to end anytime soon," said Lynn Franco, head of the Conference Board's survey. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (74%); 

COMPANY: CONFERENCE BOARD FORD MOTOR CO (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONFERENCE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MIDWEST USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); GASOLINE PRICES (91%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (87%); MOTOR VEHICLES (87%); PURCHASE INTENT (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



687 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING;
A forecaster revises his ad-spending predictions upward -- again -- for this year and next.

BYLINE: By Stuart Elliot 

 BODY:
A LEADING forecaster of advertising spending has raised his estimates for 2000, citing economic conditions that are more robust than he expected as well as strong spending so far this year by marketers in major categories from automobiles to computers to drugs.
And in a sign that the sustained boom on Madison Avenue shows little likelihood of slowing down -- dot-coms or not-coms -- a preliminary prognostication for 2001 was similarly upbeat. 
 "We think these good trends will continue," Robert J. Coen, senior vice president and forecasting director at Universal McCann, said at a presentation of his predictions yesterday at the University Club in Midtown Manhattan. "There is continued strong demand for media time and space."
Ad spending is considered a sensitive barometer of the economy, particularly the willingness of consumers to continue shopping as enthusiastically as they have. Though the Conference Board reported yesterday that consumer confidence fell this month from a record in May, the data for the second quarter was the second best ever. That suggested that the consumer spending spree was unlikely to slow significantly.
"There are legs to the story" of continued sustained ad spending growth, said Karen R. Ficker, a managing director at ING Barings in New York who attended Mr. Coen's presentation.
In addition to the categories cited by Mr. Coen, which also included alcoholic beverages, brokers and mutual funds, restaurants and resorts, Ms. Ficker said she expected big increases in ad spending in "emerging categories" like wireless and hand-held devices that "are going to need to brand themselves to differentiate themselves."
In his presentation, which Mr. Coen makes twice a year, he predicted that ad spending this year in the United States would total a record $235.6 billion, up 9.4 percent from a revised figure of $215.3 billion spent in 1999.
The 1999 figure was an increase of 6.8 percent from the $201.6 billion spent in 1998 -- and was "very good for an odd-numbered year," Mr. Coen said, that did not have the stimulative effects of elections and the Olympics. Those events are of course adding to the projected increases for 2000, along with special campaigns with millennium themes.
An increase of 9.4 percent this year would be the largest percentage gain since 1984 -- also a year of Olympics and elections -- when ad spending climbed 15.8 percent.
The estimate yesterday was the second time that Mr. Coen, who has been following ad spending trends since 1948, had raised his 2000 forecast. His first prediction, made in June 1999, was for an increase of 7.5 percent; six months later, he revised his outlook to an increase of 8.3 percent.
"The economic expectations are considerably brighter for 2000 than they were in December," Mr. Coen said, primarily because many advertisers "are posting phenomenal increases" in ad spending.
National ad spending this year is now expected to rise 11.1 percent, to $141.9 billion, compared with Mr. Coen's estimate in December of 9.1 percent to $139.2 billion.
Local ad spending, however, is now expected to rise 7 percent, to $93.8 billion, rather than 7.1 percent, to $93.9 billion. Mr. Coen attributed the slight decrease in his estimate to "a weak performance in retail" advertising in newspapers.
If Mr. Coen's latest estimates for 2000 prove right, ad spending as a percentage of gross domestic product would reach a record 2.4 percent, compared with 2.33 percent in 1999 and 2.3 percent in 1998.
That pleased another analyst attending the presentation, Leland A. Westerfield of PaineWebber in New York, who has theorized that ad spending may be breaking out from historic norms. Until now, Mr. Westerfield said, when ad spending reached or exceeded 2.3 percent of gross domestic product, it would drop back down below that rate.
"There's no one else who can bring 50-plus years of economic observations to his forecasts," Mr. Westerfield said, "which provides a large measure of credibility when Bob says advertising can outpace G.D.P. growth."
If advertisers cooperate with Mr. Coen's initial estimate for 2001 -- $251 billion, an increase of 6.5 percent from his adjusted forecast for 2000 -- ad spending next year would amount to 2.42 percent of projected gross domestic product.
Turning to ad spending abroad, Mr. Coen was also optimistic, citing expected gains in several countries that account for about two-thirds of all spending outside the United States, among them Canada, France, Germany and Italy.
Spending overseas should total $229.2 billion, Mr. Coen said, an increase of 7.2 percent from a final total of $213.8 billion for 1999, which has been adjusted downward from earlier estimates of $216.3 billion. The revised total for 1999 marked a gain of 4.2 percent from $205.2 billion spent abroad in 1998.
For 2000, then, Mr. Coen's worldwide total estimate is $464.8 billion, up 8.3 percent from his final figure of $429.1 billion for 1999. That would be the biggest one-year percentage increase since 1995, when worldwide ad spending rose 11.5 percent. The final 1999 figure represented an increase of 5.5 percent from the $205.2 billion spent in 1998.
Looking ahead to 2001, Mr. Coen said that ad spending abroad would reach $247 billion, up 7.8 percent from his revised forecast for 2000; that would also be the biggest one-year percentage increase since 1995.
So Mr. Coen's worldwide total estimate for 2001 is $498 billion, an increase of 7.1 percent from his projected total for 2000.
"I couldn't quite juggle those percentages to get to $500 billion, half a trillion," Mr. Coen said, laughing.
One audience member at the presentation suggested with a smile that if Mr. Coen was "worried about getting to $500 billion," he should raise his estimate for online ad spending, now set at in 2000 of $3.4 billion, up 75 percent from 1999. (Actually, Mr. Coen had; the figure he projected in December was $3.2 billion.)
As for dot-com spending in the traditional media, which may decline if more e-commerce companies close or conserve cash to remain afloat, Mr. Coen was sanguine.
"If two of these companies lose their ability to buy traditional media," he said, "10 more can fly in to replace them."
Universal McCann, where Mr. Coen works, is the media services division of McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising. That agency is part of the McCann-Erickson World Group, owned by the Interpublic Group of Companies.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSAL MCCANN ING BARINGS LTD (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSAL MCCANN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING; FINANCES; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MILLENNIUM (70%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART; COEN, ROBERT J ROBERT J COEN (96%); LELAND A WESTERFIELD (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



688 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Diane Blair, Professor of Politics; Friend of the Clintons Was 61

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Diane Divers Blair, who taught and practiced politics in Arkansas for 30 years, becoming fast friends with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, died on Monday at her home in Fayetteville, Ark. She was 61.
The cause was lung cancer, her family said. 
 At her death she was professor emeritus of political science at the University of Arkansas, where she lectured and wrote from 1968 until her retirement three years ago.
Mrs. Blair befriended the Clintons in the mid-1970's. She worked as a researcher for Mr. Clinton's presidential campaign in 1992, and as an adviser in his 1996 re-election effort. In 1993, Mr. Clinton appointed her to the board of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
The friendship drew scrutiny in Mr. Clinton's first term after it was revealed that Mrs. Blair's husband, James B. Blair, the chief counsel to Tyson Foods, had helped Mrs. Clinton make nearly $100,000 in profits from trading in commodity futures.
Professor Blair was a regular guest at the White House, and the Clintons reciprocated, visiting her in Fayetteville three times in recent months during her illness.
The Clintons are expected to attend a memorial service for her next month.
Professor Blair was born in Washington. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Cornell University in 1959 and received an M.A. in political science at the University of Arkansas in 1967.
In between she worked as an analyst for the President's Committee on Government Contracts, a researcher for the Senate Special Committee on Unemployment and legislative secretary to Senator Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri.
After moving to Arkansas, she served Governors Dale L. Bumpers and David H. Pryor on various state commissions.
In 1980, Governor Clinton appointed her a commissioner of the Arkansas Educational Television Network, and she served until 1993. The board of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting elected her chairman in 1997 for a two-year term.
In addition to writing many articles and book chapters, she was the author of "Arkansas Government and Politics: Do the People Rule?" (University of Nebraska Press, 1988).
In addition to her husband of 21 years, Professor Blair is survived by a son and a daughter by an earlier marriage, William R. Kincaid of Washington and Kathryn K. Jong of Fayetteville; two stepdaughters and a stepson, Heather E. Blair of Chicago, Arden S. Blair of Columbia, Md., and James R. Blair of Fort Worth; a sister, Lois Alard of Fayetteville, and two grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Diane Blair, a regular guest at the White House, walked with President and Hillary Rodham Clinton last April in Fayetteville, Ark. (Associated Press)

 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (71%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (71%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (56%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (56%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (56%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (99%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CORPORATION FOR PUBLIC BROADCASTING (71%); TYSON FOODS INC (56%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS (84%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%); PHI BETA KAPPA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ARKANSAS, USA (99%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (99%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (92%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FUTURES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); MARRIAGE (77%); WRITERS (76%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (74%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (74%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (74%); CANCER (72%); STUDENT HONOR SOCIETIES (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); COMMODITIES TRADING (67%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (64%); LUNG CANCER (57%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, DIANE DIVERS; SAXON, WOLFGANG HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



689 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Sells Tokyo Sowa Bank to an Investment Fund

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE STROM 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 27

 BODY:
The Japanese government said today that it would sell the bankrupt Tokyo Sowa Bank to an investment fund led by Wilbur L. Ross, a specialist in corporate rescues who has made a name for himself through investing in financially distressed companies in the United States.
Mr. Ross's fund, the Asia Recovery Fund, will pay 35 billion yen, or about $331 million at current exchange rates, for Tokyo Sowa, the second Japanese bank it has bought. Last month, the government sold the failed Kofuku Bank, which operates mainly in Osaka, to the fund. 
 Tokyo Sowa is the third bank the government has sold to foreigners and the sixth nationalized bank it has returned to the private sector since it began overhauling the country's shaky financial system two years ago. By the time it hands Tokyo Sowa over to Mr. Ross, the government will have spent 70 billion yen, or about $673 million, cleaning it up.
Mr. Ross has been one of the most serious foreign investors in Asia since the financial crisis that gripped much of the region in 1997.
A bankruptcy specialist in the United States, he has promoted the idea of vulture investing here, or buying distressed businesses that can be salvaged for profit.
Mr. Ross says he sees great opportunities in the Japanese banking industry, which has been riddled with bad loans as a legacy of the speculative-bubble economy of the 1980's.
By melding the two troubled Japanese banks he is buying, Mr. Ross plans to create a network of 200 branches offering services to individuals and small and midsize companies in and around Tokyo and Osaka, Japan's two largest cities. "This will give us critical mass, making critical investments in information technology and marketing more affordable," Mr. Ross said.
Tokyo Sowa is smaller than Kofuku but has several strengths that Mr. Ross hopes will enhance the investment. The Tokyo bank is known for having one of the best automated teller machine networks in Japan, distinguishing itself by offering a broad range of 24-hour services, still relatively rare here. It also issues credit cards, a business that Kofuku abandoned but would now like to re-enter. "We now will have a big distribution system through which we can offer money management, insurance and other products that generate fees," Mr. Ross said. "Increasing sales of fee-based products is key for Japanese banks. Interest rates are too low here to make a good rate of return with your balance sheet alone."
Japanese interest rates have been near zero for more than a year because of Japan's weak economy. The low rates have helped banks by keeping their own borrowing costs down. But the low rates also mean the banks have little reason to loan more money out and must find other ways to be profitable. Mr. Ross has been making a name for himself in Asia, at a time when many private equity investors are complaining about what they call the difficulty of finding attractive deals.
Last week, Mr. Ross's investment firm, W. L. Ross & Company, joined with the American International Group, a leading American insurer, to invest $800 million in a mutual fund company that is part of South Korea's giant Hyundai conglomerate. Mr. Ross's firm also owns a life insurance company in South Korea and is managing the resolution of some defaulted loans for the South Korean government.
In Japan, Mr. Ross has put money into a bankrupt auto parts manufacturer and the two banks. "It's baloney to say there aren't opportunities in this region," Mr. Ross said. "You just have to be prepared to do things differently than the way we do them in the United States."
In the bidding for Tokyo Sowa, Mr. Ross beat out Shinsei Bank, formerly known as Long-Term Credit Bank, which is owned by a group of investors led by Ripplewood Holdings, a Wall Street investment firm, and the H.I.S. Company, a travel agency that specializes in selling discount tickets. The government said the deal with Mr. Ross's group was the best for Japanese taxpayers. But officials at the Financial Reconstruction Commission, the agency overseeing the restructuring of the financial sector, may also be irritated with Shinsei because the bank has effectively put the government in the position of rescuing a private company.
To facilitate the sale of Shinsei last year, the government pledged to buy back loans made by Shinsei whose value falls by a certain percentage. Shinsei exercised that agreement yesterday, placing the government in an awkward position.
Critics of the government have said such an arrangement is unfairly generous to Shinsei and victimizes Japanese taxpayers.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wilbur L. Ross, a corporate turnaround specialist, sees opportunities in Japan's banking industry. (Jack Manning/The New York Times)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 8384 (TSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: TOKYO SOWA BANK; ASIA RECOVERY FUND TOKYO STAR BANK LTD (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: TOKYO SOWA BANK; ASIA RECOVERY FUND

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); OSAKA, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; BANKRUPTCIES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BANK FAILURES (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); AUTOMATED TELLER MACHINES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXCHANGE RATES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); 

PERSON: ROSS, WILBUR L JR; STROM, STEPHANIE WILBUR L ROSS (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



690 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN;
Excerpts From the Vice President's Speech on Energy Policy

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, June 27

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from Vice President Al Gore's speech today on energy policy, as released by his campaign:
All of you who drove to work today know that the cost of gasoline is simply too high for America's working families. In the first part of this year, oil company profits increased nearly 500 percent. That's why I've called for a federal investigation of concentration, noncompetitiveness and pricing practices in the oil industry. Now that the investigation has started, I would like to call for public hearings so the voices of American consumers can be heard.
But now is also the time to recognize that the challenge we face is even broader than soaring gasoline prices. We see the same underlying problem in our aging power systems that are becoming less reliable. And we see it in the old engines and power plants that waste so much energy and in doing so create way too much pollution that makes our air unhealthy, and our world warmer. 
 But we don't have to accept a future of more pollution. We don't have to accept a future where kids and grandparents have to stay indoors on a muggy day, and where the days themselves get muggier still.
Here's the good news: we have the means and the technology to meet all these challenges. . . .
Today, I'm proposing a new Energy Security and Environment Trust, a bold and unprecedented commitment to achieve an even more prosperous economy, powered by cleaner, more reliable energy, in a healthy, truly livable environment.
First, we will modernize and improve our nation's power systems, to prevent future power outages before they affect you and your family. We will ensure reliable and affordable electricity by providing new incentives to industry to improve our power lines. And we will give special incentives to companies that want to use their own, more efficient power systems on-site, or use renewable energy, such as wind or solar power.
Second, we will do more to protect our kids and our parents from the smog and soot that cause asthma.
One of the best ways we can do this is by giving new incentives to industry to transform dirty old power plants into modern, clean sources of energy. For that, we will need enforceable, market-based standards that are comprehensive instead of piecemeal. And we need to end monopolies, and instead let competition bring us clean energy and smaller energy bills.
We are blessed with abundant supplies of coal, petroleum and natural gas; we have to use these resources wisely.
With new technology, we can make all our energy sources cleaner, safer and healthier for our families. We will bring together the best minds from the private sector and create an open competition to design the best incentives for old power plants and industries to change, to improve, to modernize and move ahead.
Through the power of free markets, we will take a dramatic step forward for our children's health, which will also be a dramatic new step toward a stable climate.
Third, while we modernize our power systems and reduce pollution here at home, we must aggressively pursue the global market for new energy technology that is expected to reach $10 trillion in the next two decades, as other countries also take steps to overcome pollution and the threat of global warming.
As the world implements the Kyoto treaty, we must ensure that all developed and developing nations do their part.
Fourth, as we reduce America's dependence on big oil and imported oil for the long term by finding new and better ways to produce clean, affordable, and reliable energy here in America we will work even more closely with industry and labor to bring cleaner cars, trucks and buses to showrooms and streets around the world.
This is a multi-hundred-billion-dollar industry; we've got to seize the lead, before Japan or any nation beats us to it.
Fifth, we will cut taxes so families can start buying those 100-mile-per-gallon cars as they hit the showrooms. Even the best innovations are of little use if they are stuck in a lab, unaffordable and unattainable to you, your family or your business. But tax credits can make them competitive, and then mass production will bring the prices down even further.
We will also give tax credits so that it is not far-reaching fantasy to put a solar roof on your home, or to renovate your home to make it more energy efficient, but an affordable and money-saving practicality.
We will also make major new investments in light rail and mass transit, to make your neighborhoods more livable and to liberate families from having to buy gas at any price, if they'd really prefer not to.
Finally, we will do more than use the technologies of the future; we as a nation will aggressively invest in the skill and creativity of the people who discover them, and the factory workers who produce them.
There will be no new bureaucracies; no new agencies or organizations, because the era of old government is over. We'll measure performance carefully and ensure that we reach our goals with common-sense standards.
But it is America's innovators and entrepreneurs, investors and working men and women who will forge the real solutions, not the federal government.
I know these challenges are not easy. And for me, they have never been without controversy. But my commitment to the environment has always run deeper than politics. We have to do what's right for our earth because it is the moral thing to do.
It involves all of our lives, from the simple security of having safe, reliable, affordable electricity for your home; to America's ability to keep building and selling the best new cars, trucks, and technology to the world; to guarding our children from the summer smog that is made worse by global warming, and securing for our grandchildren the expectation of a joyful array of seasons that we took for granted when we grew up ourselves. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENERGY AND POWER; AIR POLLUTION; ENVIRONMENT GASOLINE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); FAMILY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); SMOG (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PRODUCT PRICING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); POWER FAILURES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); PARTICULATE MATTER (72%); ASTHMA (64%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES) AL GORE (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



691 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Per-Pupil Spending Significantly Exceeds Peak Reached Before Recession in Early 90's

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT 

 BODY:
For the first time in a decade, inflation-adjusted spending on public school students in New York City has significantly exceeded the peak it reached before the city plunged into recession in the early 1990's, the Board of Education reported yesterday.
In the school year that ends this week, the board expects to spend at least $10.5 billion, or an average of $9,573 for each of its 1.1 million students. That is an increase of almost 7 percent from the 1998-99 school year, when spending totaled $8,957 per student. 
 Measured in constant 1990 dollars, this year's spending is expected to total $7,600 per student, the first significant gain over the $7,400 that was spent in the 1989-90 school year and again last year. With the onset of a national recession in 1990-91 -- one whose effects lingered in the New York region longer than in many other areas of the country -- per-pupil spending fell steadily, to a low of $6,600 per student in the 1997-98 school year, before beginning to rebound.
The Board of Education was also able to direct a higher percentage of its total outlays into the classroom this year than in each of the three previous years, thanks in large part to the long boom on Wall Street. Meanwhile, fewer dollars were directed to programs like building maintenance and school safety.
The budget figures released yesterday were part of the board's annual School-Based Budget Reports, which are preliminary estimates of year-end figures based on spending through May 17.
Final reports on the year's actual expenditures, which are expected to be closer to $10.8 billion, will be released in January.
Because gains in the city's financial investments this year reduced its required contribution to pension plans for retired board employees, proportionately more dollars were scheduled this year for classroom instruction, one of seven major categories of spending tracked by the board.
Spending on classroom instruction, which includes expenses for teacher salaries, books and supplies and teacher training, is expected to total 54.5 percent of outlays this year. That is the highest since the Board of Education began releasing detailed budget breakdowns in the 1996-97 school year. Last year, classroom spending accounted for 52.7 percent of total expenses.
Much of the new money is paying for teacher training programs and instructional supplies, according to the budget reports.
Professional development and other contracted instructional services rose to 2.9 percent of total spending this year from 1.9 percent last year, while instructional supplies and equipment -- which covers everything from software to furniture -- rose to 2.2 percent of spending from 1.1 percent.
Several categories of spending are expected to decline this year, both in total dollars and percentage of total outlays, including building maintenance and school safety.
Projected spending on school safety officers and supplies declined to $102.8 million, or 1 percent of the budget, from $117 million, or 1.2 percent of total spending last year.
Beverly Donohue, the board's chief financial officer, said that spending would jump significantly next year with the addition of 500 safety officers recently approved by the Giuliani administration.
Building maintenance, which includes salaries and supplies for maintenance but not for the separate custodial services, is expected to account for $180 million, or 1.7 percent of the total budget. Last year, spending on building maintenance totaled $187 million, or 1.9 percent of outlays. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: BOARD OF EDUCATION (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOARD OF EDUCATION (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (69%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (67%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (60%); 

PERSON: WYATT, EDWARD

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



692 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Real Estate;
Changing Designs, A Project Revives

BYLINE: By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
In 1985, 20 years after the blackout that plunged much of the Northeast into darkness, New York commemorated the anniversary with a festival called Urban Light. Among the enthusiastic participants, even though it would not formally open for another year, was the International Design Center in Long Island City, Queens, for which the architectural firm of I. M. Pei & Partners designed the master plan.
Yet five years after its opening, the $150 million design center was itself nearly plunged into darkness, not from a power failure but from an exodus of tenants. The showrooms and shops in the center and the developer, the Lazard Development Corporation, had badly overestimated the willingness of design companies and their customers to make the leap across the East River from Manhattan. 
 But after several false starts, multiple owners and bankruptcy, the lights are back on at the center. Now, however, the one-million-square-foot complex is known as the Queens Atrium Corporate Center, and the center's two buildings, at 30-20 and 30-30 Thomson Avenue, are fully leased to corporations and city agencies.
When MCI Worldcom Network Services recently asked for more space in the center -- in addition to the 260,000 square feet it had leased for 15 years toward the end of 1999 -- Insignia/ESG, the center's leasing and management agent, was able to accommodate the request only by buying out a tenant.
"Through the 90's, the center was only 40 to 50 percent occupied," said Richard Karson, executive director of Insignia/ESG. "And right before we were hired to reposition the property at the end of 1996, the building was in danger of losing its biggest tenant, whose lease was set to expire."
One of the buildings in the complex, a 6-story, 500,000-square-foot structure constructed in 1919, had already been through any number of changes. Perhaps the most visible came when the American Chicle Company moved its factory and headquarters there from Manhattan in 1923. American Chicle remained there for 48 years, its huge rooftop signs, proclaiming the company's Chiclets and Dentyne brands, dominating the Long Island City skyline.
When Lazard Development, a subsidiary of Lazard Freres & Company, the investment banking firm, began developing the site in the early 1980's, at the urging of New York City officials and after a $23 million federal urban development action grant, it added an atrium and full-length skylight to the former American Chicle building and added an atrium to the neighboring 8-story, 450,000-square-foot Bucilla Building, which was built in 1914.
The original intent was to convert the buildings into offices, showrooms and retail shops for furniture, lighting and accessories in a single, convenient location, just across the Queensboro Bridge from Manhattan. The consensus of investors, tenants and the city fathers was that the combination of easy access, rents 20 percent to 60 percent less than comparable space in Manhattan and generous tax breaks would add up to a sure thing. Mr. Pei predicted, "We will have one-stop design shopping."
The way things turned out, "no-stop shopping" would have been more accurate. As one visitor described it in 1991, "the center looks like an archaeological site."
Adam H. Foster, managing director of Insignia/ESG, said many people had a psychological block about being so close to Manhattan without actually being there -- a mind-set that still poses a problem for his brokers. "When we were trying to interest tenants in the corporate center," he said, "our biggest problem was getting chief financial officers and other decision makers to come over the bridge or jump on the subway."
As recently as a year or two ago, Mr. Foster said, before commercial rental space became so scarce and expensive in Manhattan, "we had companies turn down coming here even though it would cost them $10 million to $15 million more a year to be in Manhattan."
From the beginning, the repositioning plan consisted of going after tenants who needed lots of space, instead of the warrens that were there in the buildings' previous incarnation. In addition, Insignia/ESG obtained a package of financial incentives from the New York City Economic Development Corporation for qualifying tenants. So while annual rents for the corporate center run in the mid-$20's per square foot, the incentives typically bring it down to the high teens.
Despite the corporate center's name, the space is almost evenly divided between corporate tenants and New York City agencies. Those agencies are the New York City School Construction Authority, which recently signed a 12-year renewal lease; the Department of Transportation and the Department of Design and Construction. Together, the three take up about 95 percent of the space in Center One, the handsome six-story building.
The revived fortunes of the corporate center received a big boost in 1998 (a year after Oaktree Capital Management of Los Angeles bought the buildings from the Bank of New York) when the DeVry Institute of Technology, based in Illinois, was looking to expand its chain of 18 colleges into New York.
"DeVry was chasing several deals in Manhattan," Mr. Foster said, "but as prices there rose, they kept losing out on them. So we contacted their broker, and they wound up taking two floors and an option on a third."
Mr. Karson of Insignia/ESG said the school was attracted to the Queens Atrium Corporate Center for the same reasons most of the corporate tenants were, and because it was only a block from CUNY's La Guardia Community College. DeVry opened in the corporate center in the fall of 1998 with 500 students; last fall's count was 1,200.
"Now that rental space is almost impossible to find at any price in Manhattan, corporations aren't as reluctant to come here," Mr. Karson said, pointing toward a number of nearby buildings with corporate tenants. And with both buildings of the Queens Atrium Corporate Center sold out, he lamented, "if only we had another half-million square feet to rent."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: The former International Design Center on Thomson Avenue in Long Island City has become the Queens Atrium Corporate Center. (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (82%); VZ (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (82%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (82%); LAZARD FRERES & CO LLC (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; QUEENS ATRIUM CORPORATE CENTER (NYC) COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); POWER FAILURES (90%); CITIES (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (72%); RETAILERS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (60%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN IEOH MING 'I M' PEI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



693 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: THE 2000 CAMPAIGN: THE VICE PRESIDENT;
Gore Unveils $125 Billion Energy Plan

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA, June 27

 BODY:
Offering a sweeping vision of a future in which pollution is conquered and cars run without a "drop of oil or gasoline," Vice President Al Gore proposed tax breaks and other incentives today for both reducing America's dependence on oil and cleaning up the environment.
And he made clear that he wanted to claim these issues in the presidential election not only with his soaring oratory but with the amount of money that he was willing to devote to them, more than $125 billion over 10 years. 
 The plans that the vice president outlined today -- mostly various forms of tax breaks for businesses that provided or invested in more efficient, less conventional or less polluting sources of energy -- represented an estimated $75 billion in lost federal tax revenue or spending over 10 years, aides said. But they said that the additional proposals that Mr. Gore was expected to make on Wednesday and Thursday would bring that figure up to more than $125 billion.
Mr. Gore framed that investment as both an opportunity and an obligation created by the country's current period of extraordinary prosperity.
"There can be a next stage of prosperity in which American creativity builds not just a better product but also a healthier planet," Mr. Gore said outside an energy plant here that was a model for the use of newer, cleaner, more efficient technology.
"We will say to the nation's inventors and entrepreneurs: if you invest in these new technologies, America will invest in you," Mr. Gore continued. "And we will prove, once and for all, that we can clean up pollution, make our power systems more efficient and more reliable, and move away from dependence on others all with no new taxes, no new bureaucracies, and no onerous regulations."
While economists and business executives often worry that more clean-air efforts and stringent environmental regulations would hamper industry and limit the creation of new jobs, Mr. Gore's approach emphasized the carrot of tax savings rather than the stick of restrictions, and it anticipated the growth of new companies and new jobs on the cutting edge of fuel technology.
But Mr. Gore's pitch was more than just an exhortation for a cleaner environment. It also reflected the sudden emergence of high gasoline prices as a potent issue in the 2000 presidential elections. Republicans have assailed the Clinton administration for an energy policy that they say has left the country too vulnerable to the whims of foreign oil producers.
Mr. Gore even folded into his speech a call for the Federal Trade Commission's investigation into possible price-gouging by the oil industry to include public hearings, possibly with testimony from consumers.
Earlier this month, when Mr. Gore embarked on what he called a "prosperity and progress" tour, he said he would spend this week talking about environmental policy. But since then, gas prices have become an increasingly heated point of contention between Republicans and Democrats, and today, the word energy accompanied and even preceded the word environment in the headlines atop the written remarks and policy summaries that Mr. Gore's aides distributed to reporters.
And Mr. Gore frequently alluded in his 26-minute address to the problems of American dependence on "big oil," a phrase undoubtedly meant as a dig against his Republican rival, Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, a former oil company executive. Democrats have said that Mr. Bush's former professional ties and the enormous sums of campaign money he has received from oil companies would make him unwilling to press for lower prices at the gas pump.
In any case, Mr. Gore said in his speech, "Our next-stage prosperity must be built on our ability to make sure Americans will be free forever from the dominance of big oil and foreign oil."
Mr. Gore said that America today stood "on a new frontier of energy independence and environmental protection" and should not fail to explore it. "It is an old, timid way of thinking to build our lives and livelihoods around a fuel source that is distant, uncertain and easily manipulated," he said. "It is a new, bold way of thinking to demand and develop new technologies to free ourselves from gas-tank price-gouging."
Later, in a satellite interview with an ABC affiliate in Green Bay, Wis., Mr. Gore attacked Mr. Bush more directly.
"I have never been afraid to take on big oil," Mr. Gore said. But, the vice president added, "My opponent comes out of the oil industry. His experience is as an oil company executive. He called for higher oil prices to boost the oil companies' profits."
Officials with the Bush campaign noted that Mr. Bush had endorsed the Federal Trade Commission's investigation into oil companies and said that Mr. Gore was merely trying to deflect attention from the Clinton administration's responsibility for gas prices that have risen as much as 50 cents a gallon in some areas of the Midwest. Mr. Gore, as it happens, will be taking his new energy message to that region over the next few days.
Mr. Bush's aides further said that what Mr. Gore unveiled today was really a set of environmental proposals, none of them especially visionary, that were recast and reconfigured to sound like an energy plan because the political landscape had changed so quickly.
"The vice president seems to forget who's been in office for seven years," Mr. Bush said at a news conference in Michigan this afternoon. "This is an administration that's been in charge and the price of gasoline has risen steadily."
The plan that Mr. Gore began to outline today centered on an unspecified "menu of financial mechanisms," as material distributed by his aides called it, of tax incentives, loans, grants and bonds to help "power plants and industries that come forward with projects that promise to dramatically reduce climate and health-threatening pollution."
Some of Mr. Gore's proposals represented expansions of current federal programs, while others were new. They included doubling the tax credit for businesses that turn wind or landfill methane into electricity and giving accelerated tax deductions to companies for the purchase of equipment that makes cleaner and more efficient use of fuel. In the coming days, Mr. Gore's aides said, the vice president will talk about tax breaks for consumers who use solar energy or buy products, like cars, that do not use traditional sources of fuel like oil.
Mr. Gore's proposals seem to veer in somewhat different directions from those of the last Democratic president to offer a sweeping set of proposals on energy use, Jimmy Carter. As a way of trying to reduce dependence on foreign oil, Mr. Carter set import quotas on the amount of foreign oil accepted into American ports. And he encouraged the development of alternative sources of fuel, including coal, oil shale, unconventional gas and the sun. Mr. Carter asked that utility companies cut their use of oil by 50 percent over a decade, and switch to other fuels, particularly coal.
And most famously, he ordered thermostats turned down in the winter as a conservation measure and wore a sweater in the chilly White House.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Philadelphia yesterday, Vice President Al Gore visited the Trigen Energy Corporation, which uses more efficient technology. Mr. Gore met workers, from left Brian Budd, Frank Wolfrom and Don Ferriolo. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TRIGEN ENERGY CORP; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION TRIGEN ENERGY CORP (90%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIGEN ENERGY CORP; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; ELECTION ISSUES; ENERGY AND POWER; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; ENVIRONMENT; TAX CREDITS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); AIR POLLUTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (85%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); GASOLINE PRICES (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); POWER PLANTS (69%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRUNI, FRANK AL GORE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



694 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: Agency Cites Growing Danger Of Erosion Along U.S. Coasts

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN 

 BODY:
The Federal Emergency Management Agency said yesterday in a report to Congress that a quarter or more of houses within 500 feet of the United States coast may be lost to erosion in the next 60 years, putting intolerable strain on the federal Flood Insurance Program.
The report called for a major new effort to map coastal erosion, identify hazard areas and raise premiums in the insurance program, perhaps even doubling them, to take erosion risk into account. And it suggested that the agency consider adopting setback requirements to limit building at the edge of the sea. 
 Though the report covers all ocean and Great Lakes coasts, it said the erosion problem was particularly severe on the Atlantic, where beaches retreat on average two to three feet a year, and the Gulf Coast, where the overall annual erosion rate is six feet.
More than 1,500 coastal structures now fall to erosion annually, James Lee Witt, director of the emergency management agency, said in an interview yesterday, adding that the figure could rise to as many as 10,000 in 10 years. Almost 350,000 houses are within 500 feet of the coastline, according to the report. Though most are not covered by the federal program, "we have a lot more structures out there at risk than we anticipated," Mr. Witt said.
He said the situation would get worse if sea level continued to rise and Americans continued to migrate toward coastal regions.
"You have on average 3,600 people relocating to these regions per day," he said. "You're looking at an awful lot of risk."
Stephen P. Leatherman, a coastal geologist at Florida International University, where he heads the International Hurricane Center, led the team of researchers who produced the report.
"A lot people have been startled by the findings," Mr. Leatherman said. "What we see is a lot of properties that have been insured by FEMA that were built when there was a wide beach and a big sand dune. Those have either been diminished or in some places are completely gone."
Mr. Witt said erosion hazard maps and better building codes would reduce property damage, but he also praised setback requirements as "a first step and a good step."
Advocates for coastal property owners called the report a thinly disguised effort to use federal insurance regulations to force people off the beach.
"There is a small group of self-proclaimed experts who are convinced that no one should live anywhere near the coast," the American Coastal Coalition, an advocacy group for coastal communities, said in a statement. "Unfortunately the report cloaks bad policy recommendations in the garments of scientific respectability."
Howard Marlowe, the coalition's president, said in an interview that it was important for coastal residents, or prospective coastal residents, to understand the hazards. But Mr. Marlowe said the federal government should not use its insurance program to discourage people who want to build at the coast.
As for setback requirements, he said it was crucial for decisions to be made locally. "We don't want to put the federal government into the business of making zoning ordinances," he said.
Michael Buckley, who heads FEMA's mapping effort, said the agency would seek Congressional approval of money to cover erosion mapping and whatever authorization was needed for changes in insurance rates. A similar effort, including setback requirements, foundered a decade ago amid opposition from representatives of coastal areas.
The agency administers the Flood Insurance Program, which since its establishment in 1968 has offered coverage to homeowners in coastal areas who might otherwise have been unable to obtain it. Towns seeking to make the insurance available to residents must enact FEMA-approved building codes that, among other things, call for structures to be elevated in zones where flood waters would spread in major storms. Structures built in compliance with FEMA codes have consistently survived with less damage in coastal storms.
Critics assert that the program, by offering coverage that private insurance companies are increasingly unwilling to provide, inadvertently encourages unwise development of the coast.
In any event, in establishing its zones and insurance rates, the program did not take erosion into account. The report issued yesterday says that was a mistake.
"Within the first few hundred feet bordering the nation's coast, property owners face as large a risk of damage from erosion as they do from flooding," it says. Unless rates are altered to reflect that risk, it says, "erosion losses will be subsidized by policyholders in noneroding areas or general taxpayers."
To fully reflect this risk, the report says, insurance rates in high-risk areas would be, on average, twice as high as they are now, typically $700 to $2,000 per $100,000 worth of coverage. Coverage is capped at $250,000 for a house and $100,000 for its contents.
The report, produced by the H. John Heinz III Center for Science Economics and Environment under contract with FEMA, is available at www.heinzcenter.org.
It estimates that it would cost about $5 million a year to identify erosion hazard areas, map them, maintain the maps and make the information available to potential buyers or local officials. But the investment would save money in the long run, it says, because "if all currently empty lots in areas most susceptible to erosion are built on, damage from erosion would rise by roughly $100 million per year for the value of the structures alone."
The report notes that several methods, notably beach nourishment and hard structures like groins, revetments or sea walls can protect structures on the beach. But hard structures can, as the report put it, "have negative impacts on the physical and aesthetic characteristics of beaches." And replacing sand lost from eroding beaches costs an average of $300,000 a year per mile of coast, the report said.
"Shoreline protection measures can augment, but are not substitutes for, other options," it says.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY GULF COAST WATER AUTHORITY (56%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN; GULF OF MEXICO; UNITED STATES (94%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); GULF OF MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: COAST EROSION; BEACHES; INSURANCE; ZONING; HOUSING EROSION (93%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (91%); COASTAL AREAS (91%); BEACHES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE (89%); EROSION CONTROL (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); HURRICANES (78%); ZONING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (77%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (77%); INSURANCE LAW (77%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); FLOOD INSURANCE (77%); WEATHER (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: WITT, JAMES LEE (DIR); LEATHERMAN, STEPHEN (PROF); DEAN, CORNELIA JAMES LEE (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



695 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: LESSONS;
Taking a New Look at Uniforms And Their Impact on Schools

BYLINE: By James Sterngold 

DATELINE: LONG BEACH, Calif.

 BODY:
FOR Carl Cohn, the path to educational innovation began a decade ago on a gritty Long Beach street when a few dozen children, caught in the middle of a gang shootout, were forced to the floor of a school bus.
Mr. Cohn was a former truant officer in this heavily industrialized port city adjacent to Los Angeles, and in the wake of that lawlessness he was asked to head an antigang task force. Its principal aim was, like that of some United Nations peacekeeping missions, to protect noncombatants, known elsewhere as primary school students. 
 "We needed to give safe passage for students through some very tricky terrain," said Mr. Cohn, now the superintendent of schools here. "We realized the way to make it visible who the students were was clothing, uniforms. We didn't think about all the other issues. It was safety, pure and simple."
It was an unusual start for what came to be hailed as a major step in helping to reinvigorate public education, not just here but across the country.
In 1994, Long Beach mandated uniforms at all its elementary schools after trials at a couple of schools. Test scores and grades rose. Absenteeism, failures and discipline problems declined. Schools in more than 35 states have now adopted uniforms policies, with Philadelphia set to adopt such a policy this fall.
But it is worth recalling the sobering origins of that success as Long Beach takes the next step, completing the introduction of uniforms at its first high school. The school district that helped push school uniforms to the front lines has now pulled them back, if slightly, as a tool.
Woodrow Wilson High School, to which students must apply for entry, has phased uniforms in one year at a time, and next year, students in all grades will be wearing khaki bottoms and burgundy or white collared shirts. But a visit to the school and conversations with administrators, parents and students reveal a subtle appreciation for the limitations as well as the merits of uniforms.
For one thing, if uniforms mean uniformity, these are a failure. The school allows the students to fulfill the requirements in many ways. They can wear trousers, skirts, baggy shorts or capri pants on the bottom and a range of tops on condition they are white or burgundy and have collars.
Jon Meyer, the school's co-principal, said the administrators chose loose standards to allow older students to express themselves while minimizing the potentially divisive effects of dress, like designating gang affiliation or economic differences. He is even toying with eliminating a rule requiring students to keep their shirts tucked in in the classrooms.
The point, Mr. Meyer said, is that they have found uniforms just one of several tools for refocusing the school, and, he insisted, they require complete support by parents and students.
'It's not the answer, but it contributes," he said. 'I don't think that the uniform alone does a whole lot, actually."
Nonetheless, there have been improvements. Three years ago, the school had 861 suspensions. This past year, there were 280.
And that is not just because the school began a policy three years ago that students apply to get in. Despite that, the student body still represents a cross section of the city. Well over a half of the students come from families with incomes below the poverty line, said Keith Hansen, the assistant principal, and 350 of the students speak English as a second language.
But the real issue is that uniforms were just the most visible of several reforms introduced. Students are required to take more credits, including four years of a foreign language, math, science and English. They must maintain a C average.
Noelle Ebright, who will begin her senior year at Wilson in the fall and was the student government president last year, said of uniforms, "They aggravate me more than they help me." But she added that they appeared to have cut down on the number of fights.
Richard Flanary, a senior administrator at the National Association of Secondary School Principals, in Arlington, Va., said the limited amount of research on the subject had placed only modest emphasis on uniforms as a way of turning around a troubled high school.
"There is no direct link between uniforms and performance," Mr. Flanary said, "but we know there is a link between the school environment and performance. Uniforms might be one way of affecting the environment, but just one."
Still, even with their expectations moderated, Long Beach officials are believers, if well-informed believers.
"Frankly, it's a very good question as to whether 5 or 7 years from now uniforms will still be a priority," Mr. Cohn said. "There is a part of me that says if we really want to grow these young people into young adults, it is, in fact, their behavior that will really mark them, not what they wear.
"Having said that, these are difficult times. And there is the reality that there is something to be gained if these young people spend less time paying attention to their dress."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; UNIFORMS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (77%); SCHOOL TRUANCY (77%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); GANGS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); PEACEKEEPING (70%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES CARL COHN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



696 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Figures Show Spread Of Prosperity

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
New government data shows just how far prosperity has spread across America, with stock options, two-career couples and capital gains helping to lift a record number of families to six-figure annual incomes. One taxpayer in 15 resided in this economic realm in 1998, the government reported yesterday -- an increase of 1.1 million over 1997.
The number of taxpayers (the I.R.S. counts a married couple who file jointly as one taxpayer) with incomes of $100,000 or more soared in 1998 to 8.3 million, up 15 percent from 7.2 million in 1997, preliminary figures from 1998 income tax returns showed.. 
 The thick book of dry statistical tables issued by the Internal Revenue Service included some minor surprises.
The data helps explain why federal tax revenues are surging, prompting President Clinton on Monday to raise the budget surplus over the next decade to $1.9 trillion, from the February estimate of $792 billion.
Analysis of the I.R.S. data also showed that the share of the economic pie going to those making $100,000 or more expanded to 36.9 percent in 1998 from 34.2 percent in 1997.
In the first glimpse of the impact of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, the taxes paid by these prosperous Americans rose 30.4 percent as more of their income was subject to the 31 percent, 36 percent and 39.6 percent rates.
The 6.6 percent of taxpayers earning more than $100,000 paid 58 percent of all income taxes in 1998.
Many more taxpayers -- 828,000, a 40 percent increase over the previous year -- paid the Alternative Minimum Tax in 1998, the new data shows. The tax, which phases out deductions for state and local taxes, and even for children, was adopted 31 years ago to stop rich taxpayers from making such aggressive use of legitimate tax breaks that they paid no federal income taxes.
"This shows how this frightening tax complexity monster is growing in our midst," said David Keating of the National Taxpayers Union.
Because Congress has not updated the law for inflation, the minimum tax now reaches so far down the economic ladder that it can sometimes tax a single parent making $28,000.
The new tax data also raised questions about the effectiveness of the sharp reduction in capital gains taxes, a major element of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, which was sponsored by the House Republican leadership.
The highest long-term capital gains rate was cut to 20 percent, from 28 percent in 1996 and part of 1997, yet the rate of growth in capital gains fell by half, from 48 percent in 1996 to 22 percent in 1998.
Representative Bill Archer, the Texas Republican who is chairman of the House Ways and Means Committee, promoted the lower rate as a key to increasing savings and investment and building a prosperous future. At first glance, taxpayers with incomes less than $15,000 seem to be lagging behind inflation. But interpreting the data is hard because the lowest income category is now heavy with rich children.
The number of people with incomes of less than $15,000 declined by 3 percent, from 40.4 million in 1997 to 40.1 million in 1998. Still, the average income grew by just 0.6 percent, far less than the rate of inflation, to $6,290, an increase of a scant $45 over 1997. Complicating the picture is the growing number of prosperous families who must file tax returns in the names of children who have their own college funds.
The one indication that the lowest income category is now heavy with rich children is that 44 percent of this group's income came from capital gains, four times the contribution of capital gains to the incomes of those making $30,000 to $100,000.
Analysis of the I.R.S. data also showed that the boom at the top is overwhelmingly the result of more people crossing the $100,000 income threshold, rather than of increases in income among those already there.
Among the 6.2 million taxpayers making $100,000 to $200,000, the average income fell by $514, to $131,189, from $131,703 in 1997. This suggests that many people just made it over the $100,000 threshold.
Among the 2 million taxpayers making more than $200,000, total income was up a robust 17.7 percent, but the average income rose only 3.1 percent to $568,941.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Surge in Income"
In 1998, the number of people with adjusted gross incomes of $100,000 or more grew by more than a million.
 
Chart tracks annual income levels for 1998 and 1997.
(Source: Internal Revenue Service)(pg. C27)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

LEGISLATION: 106 H.R. 2488 FINANCIAL FREEDOM ACT OF 1999 (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INCOME; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; STOCK OPTIONS AND PURCHASE PLANS; CAPITAL GAINS TAX TAXES & TAXATION (93%); STOCK OPTIONS (91%); TAX LAW (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (88%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); MARRIAGE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



697 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: On Edge but Optimistic, New York Blacks Offer Complex Views in Poll

BYLINE: By BLAINE HARDEN 

 BODY:
Black residents of New York City are afraid of being brutalized by the police, but they welcome and appreciate officers who keep criminals out of their neighborhood.
At all income levels, blacks in the city are convinced that racial discrimination limits their income and holds back job advancement. Yet they also believe that the major reason that young black men have troubled lives is not discrimination, but the breakdown of black families and a lack of personal motivation.
Amid New York's economic boom, with overall unemployment at a 12-year low, blacks in the city say their most important problem is a lack of jobs. But they are convinced that their children will be more successful than they have been. 
 These ambivalent attitudes are part of a wide-ranging State of Black New York poll conducted this month for the New York Urban League. Based on random telephone interviews with 801 blacks across the city, the survey paints a portrait of a community on edge, one that feels victimized by unemployment, police brutality and racial discrimination.
But it also shows that most blacks are optimistic about the future, deeply committed to their churches and introspective about a breakdown in black family life, which they link to the poor performance of many young blacks in schools and the workplace.
"I thought there would be more consistency," said Dennis M. Walcott, president of the New York Urban League, who helped write the questions in the poll. "The relationship between the local cop and the black community is not as strained or as simple as has been portrayed in the media."
Another surprise in the poll was the relative lack of support among New York blacks for school vouchers.
While blacks had serious concerns about the quality of public schools, only 41 percent of those polled supported using tax money for vouchers. Fifty-three percent said tax money should be used for only public education.
The findings differ from most nationwide polls of blacks, which have found support for vouchers running about 60 percent.
Support for vouchers, as measured by the poll, increased sharply among New York blacks as income decreased. A narrow majority of households with yearly incomes under $10,000 supported vouchers. But at income levels above $50,000, there was strong opposition to shifting public money to private schools.
Income made little difference, though, in the perception among blacks in New York that racial discrimination stains nearly every aspect of their lives.
"This survey shows that no matter how successful black people become, they still suffer the slings and arrows of racism," Mr. Walcott said. "Whether it is engagement with the police department or issues involving promotion or disparity in wages, the figures show that people feel that racism has touched their lives."
Asked to name places where racial discrimination was most common, the greatest proportion of those polled, 30 percent, mentioned stores, where blacks have long complained about being followed by clerks and security officers.
Based on their perception of discrimination, more than four out of five respondents said that affirmative action was still needed in jobs and schools. Support for affirmative action was strongest in households earning more than $50,000 a year.
"What jumps out at me from this survey is the emphasis on jobs and economic development," said Walter Stafford, a professor of public policy and urban planning at New York University who analyzed the poll for the Urban League. "Across the board, people tend to perceive discrimination in access to jobs and mobility -- even at high income levels."
The city's unemployment rate in 1999 was 11.8 percent for black men and 10.4 percent for women, compared with a citywide average of 6.7 percent last year. Black men and women had nearly double the unemployment rates of whites in 1999.
"What also strikes me is that this is not a secure group," Professor Stafford said, pointing to results showing that 53 percent of respondents said they had no pensions other than Social Security.
The survey, from June 5 to 16, was done for the New York Urban League by Blum & Weprin Associates, a New York polling firm. About 70 percent of the respondents identified themselves as black or African-American; about 30 percent said they were Caribbean or West Indian blacks.
Many of the poll's findings, particularly those concerning black attitudes toward the police, echo some results of two recent polls by The New York Times and CBS News. Those polls were conducted after the police shooting of Amadou Diallo in February 1999 and the shooting of Patrick M. Dorismond this March.
Compared with The Times' polls, which surveyed New Yorkers of all races, the Urban League survey contacted three to five times as many black respondents in the city, making it relatively more precise in assessing black views. The poll's margin of error is plus or minus three percentage points.
The Urban League survey found a deep and pervasive ambivalence among black New Yorkers in their attitudes toward the police. While they feel that the police disproportionately victimize them because they are black, they also want police protection against crime, the poll found.
"It is like straddling a fence," said Lileathea Grays-Wallace, 44, a divorced mother of three who lives in the South Bronx and who participated in the poll. "I am worried about the police on one side and the criminals on the other."
Like 45 percent of those polled in the survey, Ms. Grays-Wallace said that she believed that the police in her immediate neighborhood (she lives a block from a police station) did a good-to-excellent job of being helpful and friendly.
"But four blocks down, I don't know," said Ms. Grays-Wallace, who, like nearly 9 of out 10 respondents in the survey, said police brutality was a "serious problem."
Her oldest daughter works as a dispatcher for the police department, she said. Still, she said she was afraid that her younger daughters, who are 13 and 8, would say the wrong thing to the police on the street and be arrested or abused.
"It is a miscommunication thing," she said. "I tell my daughters they will be judged by what they look like. I explain to them to keep their senses up and show respect."
This simultaneous need for and fear of the police has overwhelmed the life of Daisy Boyd, 77, who lives in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn and also participated in the poll.
Five years ago, her son, Daniel Lee, then 30, was shot to death in front of her apartment when he tried to chase away gang members selling drugs, Mrs. Boyd said. Last week, she said that another son, Jasper, 33, was arrested by the police and was forced to spend a night in jail after he tried to stop a fight outside a homeless shelter in Brooklyn.
"It hurt my son so bad to be arrested that he just cried, and he is a college graduate," Mrs. Boyd said. "Some of the police are just mean. They don't like the black man, no way. The police seem to be pretty nice to me, but they are not so nice to the young people."
The Urban League poll avoided questions about politics and politicians, other than to ask if the withdrawal of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani from the Senate race would make black residents more or less likely to vote in November. About three-quarters of those polled said the withdrawal of the mayor, who is widely blamed by blacks for worsening racial tensions in the city, would not affect their interest in voting.
Supporting the longstanding importance of the church in black communities, the poll found religion plays a significant role in the lives of an overwhelming majority of black New Yorkers. Nearly four out of five respondents said that religion is either extremely or very important, while 61 percent said they attended church at least once a month and 35 percent said that they volunteer at least 5 hours a month at their church.
"Across all income levels, the church is important," said Mr. Walcott of the New York Urban League.
Mr. Walcott said that high levels of religious involvement are connected to what he described as the poll's findings of "introspection on the part of the black community."
"The poll got at the issue of family structure and how it contributes to a lack of success for young black men," he said. "It also talked about family dysfunction as a reason for poor performance in school. The black community isn't solely dealing with external conditions such as racism. It is also aware of the internal issues that need to be addressed for equal opportunity to be achieved."
As much as black New Yorkers say they feel oppressed by discrimination, only about 11 percent felt that the quality of life in the city had grown worse in the last five years. Forty-four percent felt that the quality of life had remained about the same and 43 percent said it had improved.
Ms. Grays-Wallace, the mother in the South Bronx, is among those blacks in the city who are upset about racism and afraid of the police for her children. But she says she believes that her life and that of her children is improving.
"Everything is just a little better, just a little calmer," she said. "It is not relaxed. New Yorkers do not relax."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Hardly the Finest"
According to a poll of 801 black New Yorkers...
 
Do you think police brutality is a serious problem?
YES: 89.35
NO: 5.9%
 
How would you rate the police in your neighborhood on be8ing helpful and friendly?
EXCELLENT/GOOD: 45.0%
NOT GOOD/POOR: 43.4%
(pg. B1)
 
Chart: "IN THE NUMBERS -- Urban League Poll"
In a survey conducted by the New York Urban League, 801 black New Yorkers were asked about their perceptions and opinions.
 
What would you say is the most important problem facing black New Yorkers today?
 
Economic Development: 18.5%
Police Brutality: 13.3
Discrimination/Racism: 12.5
Crime/Violence: 11.4
Ecucation: 10.2
 
Do you think tax money should be used for vouchers to help pay for children to go to private school or do you think all education tax money should continue to be used only for public schools?
 
Vouchers: 40.6%
Public only: 53.4
 
Survey conducted between June 5 and 16 with a margin of error of 3 percent.
(Source: New York Urban League poll)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: URBAN LEAGUE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: URBAN LEAGUE NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; DISCRIMINATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; LABOR; PUBLIC OPINION; CRIME AND CRIMINALS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); FAMILY (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CHILDREN (76%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MISCONDUCT (69%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); 

PERSON: HARDEN, BLAINE

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



698 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: Media Metrix Plans to Merge with Jupiter Communications

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

 BODY:
Media Metrix Inc., an influential arbiter of who's hot and who's not in the Internet world, will acquire Jupiter Communications, a leading analyst of Internet trends, the two companies said yesterday.
Combining the two companies will create "the definitive source for Internet measurement and analysis," said Tod Johnson, chairman and chief executive of Media Metrix, which calculates the popularity of more than 21,000 Web sites based on software tracking the habits of 70,000 computer users in the United States and overseas. 
 Both Media Metrix and Jupiter are seen as industry leaders in providing valuable insights into trends however questionable the actual figures on which they are based.
"Media Metrix's monthly reports definitely move stocks," said Henry Blodgett, who tracks a broad portfolio of Internet companies for Merrill Lynch. "It's the closest thing there is to a standard."
Mr. Johnson said that the merger should help the two companies expand overseas where demand for Internet information is growing rapidly. It is also intended to provide opportunities for "hybrid" products, including analytical commentaries on Media Metrix data and databases that help Jupiter produce analysis of more narrowly defined market segments.
Media Metrix's largest competitor is Nielsen/NetRatings (an alliance of Nielsen Media Research and NetRatings Inc.). Jupiter, which gets most of its revenue from subscribers to monthly research reports and seminars, competes most directly with Forrester Research, based in Cambridge, Mass.
Investors were not immediately impressed by the possibilities of Jupiter Media Metrix. Shares of Media Metrix fell $4.875, or 17 percent, to $23.375, while Jupiter's dipped $1.937, or 8 percent, to $21.625. Under the terms of the agreement, Jupiter shareholders will receive 0.946 share of Media Metrix stock for each of their shares. The stock swap, which was valued at about $414 million when the deal was announced, was worth $343 million by the end of trading.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (83%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: JUPITER COMMUNICATIONS; MEDIA METRIX JMXI INC (96%); NETRATINGS INC (83%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: JUPITER COMMUNICATIONS; MEDIA METRIX

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (76%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES INTERNET & WWW (92%); MERGERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (65%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J GREGORY E JOHNSON (72%); GREGORY E JOHNSON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



699 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: OUTDOORS;
Remote Streams Worth the Effort

BYLINE: By Nicholas Karas 

 BODY:
Trout fishing on many of the Catskills' blue-ribbon streams has become so crowded in the last year or two, especially on weekends, that it is S.R.O. The trout streams' surge in popularity parallels the rise in fly fishing's growth in America and has also ushered in a new-found economy among these verdant hills. Local entrepreneurs have responded by refurbishing restaurants and motels, adding new tackle shops, museums and a booming guide service.
The crowded conditions on the better-known streams and pools were succinctly impressed upon me, first and fittingly, on April 1, the opening day of the trout season in New York State. At about 6 a.m. on that day, I was there in Roscoe, N.Y., alias Trout Town U.S.A, standing in a line of anglers on the Route 17A bridge that spans the famed Beaverkill. A hundred yards downstream, it meets Willowemoc Creek and forms the famous Junction Pool. 
 I was there because fishing Junction Pool is one of the required rites of spring for all Catskills anglers. The fishermen before me were waiting their turn to jog down the well-worn path on the bridge's west abutment so they could gain access to the well-publicized confluence.
Forget it! It was standing-room-only on the banks. Even if I were able to get to the water's edge, I'd be shoulder-to-shoulder with other anglers. I drove downstream on old Route 17, which parallels the Beaverkill, looking for a pool with space.
At one time, you could easily tell the productive spots on the river by the number of cars pulled off the road. The technique still works but the Theodore Gordon Fly Fishers have made life easier for the itinerant angler. At each pool, they've placed sturdy, cast-iron signs, similar to historical markers the state erects. They identify the pools and give a description of why it bears that name.
I passed Ferdon's, Barnhart's and Hendrickson's pools and Horse Block Run, all packed with cars and anglers. I slowed at Cairn's Pool to tally the number of anglers and lost count after 25. I passed Wagon Tracks, School House, Trestle, Mountain and Lower Mountain pools and stopped at Cemetery Pool. All were filled with anglers. I realized I couldn't fish the Beaverkill.
I returned on a weekend in mid-May, during "Bug Week," to find the crowding even worse. "Kind of tough getting to the water, isn't it?" asked a stocky, wader-clad angler who wore a heavily laden fishing vest and a wide-brimmed hat. He sat down next to me on a newly constructed wooden ramp that led down from the road, via a switch-back, to the water's edge. His left ear was pierced by a silver, metallic trout jumping through the bottom of the lobe.
"Where's your rod?" I asked.
"Never use one when I'm guiding," said Rick Miller.
Miller, 57, was born in Stamford, Conn., but made a beeline for Roscoe when he retired after 30 years in the fire department.
"Since I was 20, I've been coming here to fish," he said. "In those days, we worked the Golden Triangle. It was composed of the Neversink, Willowemoc, Beaverkill, East Branch" -- of the Delaware River -- "Esopus, Schoharie and Roundout. Finding space on a pool was never a problem in those days."
Miller built a fishing lodge in Craig-E-Clair, five miles from Roscoe. From there, he guides about 150 days a year. His service has grown so rapidly that during the busier times of the season, he uses several area guides.
"I saw this coming," he said as we watched one of his rods set the hook on a fish. "For the last three years, I've made a serious effort to inventory the trout fishing in almost every tributary stream in the six counties of the Catskills. I've found that at times fishing on these streams off the beaten track can be as good, if not better, than on the main streams. One thing is sure, the ambience and solitude is well worth the added effort of searching them out."
Reluctantly, he disclosed the streams' names but cautioned that on some access is limited, while on others the state has acquired the fishing rights.
Off the West Branch of the Delaware, they include Little Delaware, Falls, Honest and Elk Creeks and Betty Brook. On the West Branch, they include Read Creek, Baxter, Trout and Downs Brooks, and Batavia and Bush Kills. On the Beaverkill, they include Trout, Horton and Russell Brooks, and off the Willowemoc, Little Beaverkill, Mongaup Creek and Fir Brook. Off the lower Delaware River, there's East Branch Callicoon Creek and Panther Rock Brook.
If you want to avoid crowds and fish streams off the beaten track, your first task is to get a free map/brochure called "I Love New York Catskill Fishing." It is available at all Department of Environmental Conservation offices and at most tackle shops and motels in the area or can be obtained by calling (800) NYS-CATS. Or you can contact Rick Miller at (800) 884-7088. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CATSKILLS (NYS AREA); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, SPORT; TROUT SPORT FISHING (92%); FISHES (90%); MOUNTAINS (89%); SPORTING GOODS STORES (73%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); HISTORIC SITES (62%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (56%); 

PERSON: KARAS, NICHOLAS RICK MILLER (75%); RUSSELL BROOKS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



700 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1324 words

HEADLINE: F.D.A. Considers Switching Some Prescription Drugs to Over-the-Counter Status

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Spurred by two pharmaceutical companies that want to take their cholesterol-lowering medications over the counter, the Food and Drug Administration is considering whether many more medicines -- from antibiotics to birth control pills -- should be made available without a doctor's prescription.
Beginning with public hearings on Wednesday and Thursday, the drug agency will re-examine the way it regulates over-the-counter drugs, the first such review in nearly three decades. The last one, in 1972, created a new system for approving over-the-counter drugs that enabled more than 600 drugs to switch from prescription to nonprescription status. 
 Typically, nonprescription drugs treat mild conditions, like headaches, colds and athlete's foot. But now, in addition to looking at infection-fighting agents and oral contraceptives, the agency is raising a new question: whether patients with chronic conditions, like high blood pressure, high cholesterol and osteoporosis, should be able to treat themselves.
"We are open to the possibility of having more and different kinds of medicines available to consumers," said Dr. Robert DeLap, the agency official leading the review.
"The health care environment has changed tremendously in recent years," Dr. DeLap said. "People are much more interested in self-care, and in being able to manage their minor conditions themselves."
But what constitutes a minor condition is a matter of debate, and some drug safety experts worry that broadening access to medications will only harm patients, enabling them to take drugs in dangerous combinations. And in making more drugs available without a prescription, the drug agency could greatly affect the $100 billion pharmaceutical industry, changing the dynamic of who pays for medicines and how much they cost at a time when these issues are at the center of the political debate in Congress.
Nonprescription drugs are generally cheaper than prescription drugs, and also save money on doctors' visits. The Consumer Healthcare Products Association, which represents nonprescription drug manufacturers, says consumers save nearly $13 billion a year by using over-the-counter medicines that were once available by prescription only. But while these drugs cost less, patients, and not insurance companies, must pay for them.
Agency officials said they are not certain whether or when any regulations will change, but the review is already generating controversy.
In all, 55 people are scheduled to testify at this week's hearings, including drug and insurance company officials, safety advocates, infectious disease specialists worried about antibiotic resistance and abortion opponents, who are fighting an over-the-counter birth control pill, which taken in high doses can be used as a morning-after contraceptive.
"Anytime you tamper with the health care system, you run into very emotional responses," said Steve Francesco, a consultant who advises the drug industry on changing drugs from prescription to nonprescription status. "The F.D.A. is saying let's throw a rock in this pond and see where the waves move. I think that's very courageous, and long overdue."
One case in point is Claritin, the best-selling allergy medication, which last year generated $2.3 billion of its $2.7 billion in sales from the United States. Claritin is available in other countries without a prescription, and Blue Cross of California has petitioned the drug agency to give it over-the-counter status.
A switch would inevitably force the drug's maker, Schering Plough Corporation, to lower Claritin's price, to make it competitive with other over-the-counter antihistamines, and the company opposes it. But health insurers, like Blue Cross, would benefit from such a move because they would no longer have to pay for the medication.
The drug agency typically does not make a drug over-the-counter unless the manufacturer requests it. But as the agency reopens the issue of over-the-counter drug regulation, the Claritin debate is generating fears within the industry that the longstanding policy will change.
"Pharmaceutical companies have the most detailed knowledge of their drugs, and they should decide when to make the switch," said Jeff Trewhitt, a spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association, a trade group. "Economics should not play a role."
But economics does play a role. "What's at stake here is money, and control and safety," said Matthew Weinberg, an industry consultant.
Before 1972, the F.D.A. did not formally review all over-the-counter drugs for safety and effectiveness. That year, the agency began to set standards for the 300,000 to 400,000 nonprescription drugs that were already available; drugs that met those standards were permitted to remain on the market. But new medicines had to submit to a formal review by the agency.
In the years since, a range of medicines, from Rogaine for hair loss to Aleve for pain to Monistat for vaginal yeast infections, have switched from prescription to over-the-counter status.
Now regulators must consider whether to add cholesterol-lowering medication to that list. Next month, the drug agency is scheduled to convene a panel of scientific experts to evaluate applications from two drug manufacturers, Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb, to make low-dose versions of their anti-cholesterol pills available without a prescription.
Merck's request comes a year before the patent on its drug, Mevacor, is due to expire; in seeking to market a 10-milligram dose without a prescription, financial analysts say Merck is trying to build brand loyalty and increase profits before a generic equivalent goes on the market. Mevacor's United States sales dropped to $480 million from $593 million from 1998 and 1999.
The Bristol-Myers Squibb drug, Pravachol, does not face patent expiration until 2005. In submitting its application to the F.D.A., analysts say, the company is trying to compete with Merck.
Officials at both companies cast the discussion in terms of patients, not profits. They argue that consumers who are not being treated for high cholesterol would benefit from easy access to their drugs.
But Dr. Sidney M. Wolfe, who as director of Public Citizen's Health Research Group, an advocacy organization, is a frequent critic of the drug agency, said it would be both "dumb and dangerous" to permit cholesterol-lowering pills to be sold without a doctor's orders.
Unlike a patient who has a headache, Dr. Wolfe said, a patient with high cholesterol may not have symptoms. A test is needed to detect the problem, he said, and a doctor is needed to interpret that test and follow the patient to make certain the cholesterol condition does not deteriorate into a case of serious heart disease. The drugs also have the potential to cause liver damage.
For those reasons, some financial analysts are skeptical that the drug agency will approve the Merck and Bristol-Myers Squibb requests.
If cholesterol sounds like a thorny issue, consider oral contraceptives. Women's health advocates are expected to argue that the "morning after pill," which is used for emergency contraception, should be made available over-the-counter.
But abortion opponents have flooded the drug agency with letters arguing against any change that would make the birth control pill readily available to teenagers.
Some have suggested that the agency follow Canada's lead, and create a category known as "under-the-counter" drugs. These drugs do not require a prescription but cannot simply be picked up off store shelves. Instead, the pharmacist would control access, acting as a buffer between consumers and potentially dangerous medications, said Dr. Raymond Woosley, chairman of the pharmacology department at Georgetown University. "That is a classification we have not had in the past," Dr. Woosley said, "and I think it is one we should be discussing."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MRK (NYSE) (90%); BMY (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; MERCK & CO INC; BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO MERCK & CO INC (90%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (90%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB US (59%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB INTERNATIONAL (59%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION; MERCK & CO INC; BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; CHOLESTEROL; BLOOD PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (92%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (91%); CHOLESTEROL (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); ANTIBIOTICS (90%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); DEREGULATION (87%); CHRONIC DISEASES (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); DRUG SAFETY (78%); COMMON COLD (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); INSURANCE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (73%); OSTEOPOROSIS (73%); HYPERTENSION (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (72%); ANTIBIOTIC RESISTANCE (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (70%); ABORTION (60%); 

PERSON: STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY JOSEPH C PAPA (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



701 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12
 
House Moving to End Ban on Food Sales to Cuba
House Republican leaders agreed to end four decades of sanctions on sales of food to Cuba, but Cuban-American lawmakers managed to place severe restrictions in the bill. American farmers and agricultural businesses could sell directly to Cuba, but the federal government and American banks could not provide any financing for Cuba. A1 

U.N. Warning on AIDS in Africa
About half of all 15-year-olds in African countries most affected by AIDS will die of the disease even if the rates of infection drop substantially in the next few years. A1
 
New Opposition in Zimbabwe
Voters have decisively ended the dominance of President Robert Mugabe's governing party in Parliament, casting ballots for a powerful, new opposition and limiting the authority of the governing party. A12
 
Violence in Indonesia
A surge of violence, apparently fueled by anti-government agitators in Jakarta, is tearing apart the remote islands of Maluku, raising fear of widespread destabilization. A8
 
French Effort for Europe Union
President Jacques Chirac urged Germany to join France in leading a core group of European Union countries in moving faster than others toward political and economic union. A11
 
France disavowed the document summarizing the principles agreed to by other participants at the conference on democracy organized in Warsaw by the United States. A11
 
Terror Suspect Held in Paris
The French police detained a terror suspect linked to the network of Osama bin Laden and to an Islamic fundamentalist cell in Canada that plotted to bomb American targets. A4
 
Russia Appeals to Belarus
Russian legislative leaders urged Belarus's president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, to let the opposition fully participate in elections. A5
 
Assad's Son Named Candidate
Syria's Parliament chose Bashar al-Assad, son of the late Hafez al-Assad, as the sole candidate for president in a referendum set for July 10. A4
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A16-25
 
House Votes to Require Groups to Disclose Spending
The House voted to require a growing number of shadowy tax-exempt groups that raise and spend unlimited amounts on political advocacy to disclose their donors and spending, opening the way for the first major change in campaign finance law in two decades. A1
 
Group Attacks Drug Plan
The drug industry, operating through Citizens for Better Medicare, a group that can legally conceal the source of its money, has accelerated its lobbying against the Clinton administration's proposal for a Medicare prescription drug benefit, which the industry contends will lead to price controls and throttle research. A22
 
Airlines Faulted on Candor
Airlines, required to tell their passengers if a flight will be delayed, often blame air traffic control, even if that is not the reason, the Transportation Department reported. A20
 
Growing Coastal Erosion
The Federal Emergency Management Agency reported to Congress that a quarter or more of houses within 500 feet of the United States coastline could be lost to erosion in the next 60 years, straining the federal Flood Insurance Program. A18
 
Explaining Decision on Inquiry
Attorney General Janet Reno said at a Senate hearing that no one ever pressured her into deciding against having an outside prosecutor investigate fund-raising by President Clinton and Vice President Al Gore. A25
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Prescription Rules Review
The F.D.A. is considering whether many medicines -- like cholesterol-lowering medications, antibiotics and birth control pills -- should be available without a prescription. Hearings are today and tomorrow. A1
 
Pollution's Danger to Elderly
Microscopic particles of air pollutants from tailpipes, power plants and other sources are causing measurable increases in deaths and the hospitalizations of the elderly, a study of large metropolitan areas found. A20
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-9
 
In Black Poll, Complexity In Views on Police and Bias
Black city residents are afraid of being brutalized by the police, but they welcome and appreciate officers who keep criminals out of their neighborhoods, a poll for the New York Urban League found. At all income levels, blacks are convinced that racial discrimination limits their income and holds back job advancement. Yet they also believe that the major reason that young black men have troubled lives is not bias but the breakdown of black families and a lack of motivation. B1
 
Sentences in Louima Case
Charles Schwarz received 15 years and 8 months in prison for taking part in the Abner Louima assault and plotting to cover up his role with two other former police officers, Thomas Bruder and Thomas Wiese, who received 5-year sentences. B3
 
Echo of Last Year's Blackout
The breakdown of three electric feeder cables on Monday, which forced Con Edison to cut or reduce service to thousands on the Upper East Side, was the same type of failure that led to the 19-hour blackout in northern Manhattan last July. A1
 
Coming Soon to Columbus Circle
City officials today will unveil the design for Columbus Center, providing space for business, culture and residences at Columbus Circle. B1
 
ARTS E1-14
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
OBITUARIES B10
 
EDUCATION B11
 
Private School for Columbia
Columbia University plans to create a private school near campus in which half of the 700 or so seats would be reserved for children of the university's faculty and about 70 would be reserved for neighborhood children on full scholarship. A1
 
Suit Cites Bias in Scholarships
The A.C.L.U. accused Michigan of discriminating against minority students by awarding merit scholarships on the basis of test scores. A16
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-28
 
Oracle's Anti-Microsoft Effort
Oracle acknowledged that it had hired a Washington detective firm to investigate groups sympathetic to its rival Microsoft, an effort that yielded documents embarrassing to Microsoft during its antitrust battle. A1
 
U.S. Moves Against Phone Deal
The Justice Department went to court to halt WorldCom's $115 billion acquisition of Sprint, citing concern over competition. The companies withdrew the deal from consideration by the European Commission. A1
 
New Rules for Accounting
The S.E.C. proposed rules to tighten standards on additional services accounting firms could sell to companies whose books they audit. C1
 
Data on Growth of Prosperity
New government figures show just how far prosperity has spread across America, with stock options, two-career couples and capital gains helping to lift a record number of families to six-figure annual incomes. C1
 
Viacom Over USA Networks
A Delaware judge awarded the rights to World Wrestling Federation programs -- the most popular weekly programs on cable television -- to Viacom, based on a high bid that the court said USA Networks had not matched, as required by contract. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
DINING F1-12
 
EDITORIAL A26-27
 
Editorials: Politicizing gas prices; after the genome announcement; New York joins the gun suits.
Columns: Paul Krugman.
 
Crossword E12
TV Listings E13
Public Lives B2
Weather D8
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); BELARUS (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

STATE: ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); 

CITY: JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (94%); BELARUS (92%); INDONESIA (92%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); ZIMBABWE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); POLAND (79%); SYRIA (79%); ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (50%); JAKARTA, INDONESIA (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (70%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (88%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); AIRLINES (83%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); AIDS & HIV (77%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); REFERENDUMS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); TAX LAW (72%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); EROSION (71%); EURO (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (69%); AL-QAEDA (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (60%); AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (60%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (58%); MEDICARE (56%); RELIGION (50%); COASTAL AREAS (50%); 

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%); JACQUES CHIRAC (53%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



702 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 94 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Embargo: Desired Results?

 BODY:

To the Editor:
Re "'On Trade, Cuba Is Not China" (Op-Ed, June 24): 
 Jesse Helms argues that an end to the Cuba embargo will not bring about democratic changes in Cuba. But he overlooks the potential results of increased engagement with Cuba.
Eventually, change will come to Cuba. When change does occur, which is preferable: a Cuban society gradually led toward democracy by slow exposure to the outside world, or one coping with the ill effects of sudden exposure to the global economy as seen elsewhere?
 
CRAIG WATSON
Brooklyn, June 24, 2000
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICS (84%); GLOBALIZATION (82%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: WATSON, CRAIG; HELMS, JESSE (SEN) JESSE HELMS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



703 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 984 words

HEADLINE: METRO BRIEFING

BYLINE: Compiled by Anthony Ramirez

 BODY:

NEW YORK
 
ALBANY: FOSTER PARENT LAW -- The State Legislature has passed a bill allowing some felons to become foster and adoptive parents. The bill is expected to be signed by Gov. George E. Pataki, a spokesman for his office said. If it becomes law, it would overturn the current law, which requires fingerprinting of all foster and adoptive parents. If violent felonies are found in the parents' background, their children must be removed, even if caseworkers had determined that the children were safe. Two State Family Court judges have already ruled the provision unconstitutional, and advocates for foster parents and children and city child welfare officials want the law overturned. Somini Sengupta (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: MONEY LAUNDERING RING -- Federal prosecutors in Manhattan and Brooklyn yesterday charged 17 people, including nine city employees, with conspiracy to launder money. The authorities said repeated cash deposits of just less than $10,000 were made to avoid federal laws that require banks to report large cash deposits to the Internal Revenue Service. About $200,000 was seized from one defendant. The Department of Investigation said yesterday that the implicated city workers were not high-level employees and not in law enforcement. John Sullivan (NYT) 

BROOKLYN: SEX ABUSE CHARGED -- In two separate incidents, four primary school students were arrested yesterday on charges of sexually abusing 9-year-old girls inside their Brooklyn schools, the police said. In the first incident, a girl was in a bathroom at Public School 56 on Gates Avenue in the Clinton Hill section when two other 9-year-old girls sexually abused her, said Detective Edward Reuss, a police spokesman. The attack happened on June 16 but was not reported to the police until yesterday, he said. In the second incident, which took place yesterday morning, two boys, 10 and 11, attacked a 9-year-old girl in the hallway of P.S. 25 on Lafayette Street in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Detective Reuss said. An investigator said the boys threw the girl to the ground and grabbed at her through her clothing. ANDY NEWMAN (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: GUN CAMPAIGN -- Andrew M. Cuomo, left, secretary of Housing and Urban Development, and Eliot L. Spitzer, New York attorney general, yesterday urged New York City to join 400 other cities in a campaign of economic pressure on handgun manufacturers.
The cities give preference in their police handgun purchases to Smith & Wesson, the largest handgun producer and the only one that has agreed to install trigger locks and other safety features on its guns. Thomas J. Lueck (NYT)
 
MANHATTAN: JANITOR HUNGER STRIKE -- Eight janitors who work at a Brooklyn office tower began a hunger strike on Monday to protest the building owner's fight against their efforts to join the city's largest janitors' union, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union.
For six weeks, 31 janitors at the building, Brooklyn Renaissance Plaza, which is owned by Muss Development, have been on strike. They say many of them are paid less than half the $16 an hour earned by New York's unionized janitors. Steven Greenhouse (NYT)
 
NEW JERSEY
 
TRENTON: MORE MINORITIES STOPPED -- New data gathered by the state police show that more members of minorities are stopped by troopers on the New Jersey Turnpike than elsewhere in the state. The data, compiled under a consent decree in a recent racial profiling case, show that 38.3 percent of drivers stopped on the turnpike from January through April were members of minority groups, compared with 22.1 percent of drivers stopped by troopers in other places. Officials declined to comment on the data. David M. Halbfinger (NYT)
 
TRENTON: TROOPERS OBJECT -- Lawyers for James Kenna and John Hogan, the state troopers who face trial on attempted murder and aggravated assault charges in the 1998 shooting of three minority men in a van on the New Jersey Turnpike, accused prosecutors of misleading and improperly influencing the grand jury to obtain indictments against the troopers. Judge Andrew J. Smithson of Superior Court said he would rule on the defendants' motion to dismiss the indictments on July 25. David M. Halbfinger (NYT)
 
TRENTON: H.M.O. BAILOUT -- New Jersey's health maintenance organizations sued the state yesterday to overturn a law requiring them to pay $50 million in claims by doctors and hospitals against two H.M.O.'s that went bankrupt in 1998. The New Jersey Association of Health Plans filed the suit in Superior Court in Mercer County, asserting that their forced bailout of the companies, HIP Health Plan of New Jersey and American Preferred Provider Plan, was an unconstitutional taking of property. The Department of Banking and Insurance ordered the payment as part of a $100 million bailout plan. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
TRENTON: BEACH FEES -- A senior Assembly Democrat yesterday called for constitutional amendments banning fees for New Jersey beaches and establishing a lottery to pay for beach maintenance. The assemblyman, Neil M. Cohen, Democrat of Elizabeth, introduced a bill last month to hold a referendum on the issue. Steve Strunsky (NYT)
 
CONNECTICUT
 
HARTFORD: LAWMAKERS CRITICIZED -- The Connecticut League of Conservation Voters yesterday criticized the Connecticut General Assembly, saying it did little about environmental legislation. The league said only one of nine bills it tracked passed. The failed bills included proposals to reduce solid waste and minimize power-plant pollution. Theresa Crapanzano (NYT)
 
CALENDAR
 
Tomorrow
 
SUBWAY SAFETY HEARING -- The Metropolitan Transportation Authority's committee on safety and security plans a public hearing at 10:30 a.m. Those wishing to make a statement must sign up before the meeting. Location: 347 Madison Avenue, Manhattan. Information: (212) 878-7483.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NYT (AMEX) (97%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SMITH & WESSON CORP (51%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FOSTER CARE (94%); FELONIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); ADOPTION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (86%); SMALL ARMS MFG (84%); LEGISLATION (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); GUN CONTROL (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (76%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (76%); CHILD WELFARE (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLICE FORCES (74%); FAMILY LAW (73%); CONSPIRACY (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); FINGERPRINTING (73%); FAMILY COURTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); JUDGES (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); CITIES (69%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); 

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (59%); ANDREW CUOMO (59%); JOHN SULLIVAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



704 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Army Hires Burnett In Recruiting Campaign

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOT 

 BODY:
The Army has ended an unusually public review for its account, with ad spending estimated at $95 million annually, by hiring a new lineup of agencies led by Leo Burnett Worldwide in Chicago, part of the B Com3 Group.
The review began in January when the Army expressed dissatisfaction with the incumbent agency since 1987, Young & Rubicam Advertising in New York, and unexpectedly decided not to exercise a one-year renewal option clause in a long-term contract. Two months later, Y.& R. Advertising decided not to take part in the review, which narrowed down to Burnett and Campbell-Ewald in Warren, Mich., part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. 
 The Army contract with Burnett, announced yesterday at the Pentagon, is for one year with three one-year renewal options, and for the first time will partly tie the agency's compensation to the Army's recruitment success. Unhappiness grew with Y.& R. after the Army failed to meet goals for enlistees, who have been harder to find as the economy improves and young men and women seek jobs in the private sector.
In addition to Burnett, the Army hired three agencies for specialized tasks. Images U.S.A. in Atlanta will handle marketing aimed at African-Americans, which had been at the Chisholm-Mingo Group in New York. Cartel Creativo in San Antonio will handle marketing aimed at people who speak Spanish, which had been handled by the Bravo Group in New York. And Starcom U.S.A. in Chicago, also a B Com3 unit, will handle media services, which had been at Media Edge in New York. Like Y.& R. Advertising, Bravo and Media Edge are owned by Y.& R. Inc.
 
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: IPG (NYSE) (91%); PUB (PAR) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: BURNETT, LEO, CO INC INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (91%); PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); CHISHOLM-MINGO GROUP (67%); CAMPBELL-EWALD CO (58%); BRAVO GROUP (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: BURNETT, LEO, CO INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (77%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ARMIES; ADVERTISING MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (90%); ARMIES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (78%); MILITARY RECRUITING (78%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); CARTELS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



705 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: HOUSE G.O.P. IS SET TO ALLOW THE SALE OF FOOD TO CUBA

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
House Republican leaders agreed today to end four decades of sanctions on sales of food to Cuba, in a decision that carried great political significance.
But the economic value is relatively minor, as Cuban-American lawmakers managed to place severe restrictions in the bill. 
 The deal would in principle allow American farmers and agricultural businesses to sell their goods directly to Cuba for the first time since 1962. The agreement also echoes existing policy allowing the sale of medicine.
But the federal government and American banks would be barred from providing any financing for Cuba, making it difficult for Cuba, with little cash, to buy goods.
In addition, the trade would be one-way: Cuba would not be permitted to export to the United States.
The Senate has already approved a more expansive version of the legislation as part of its agriculture spending bill. The House and Senate must now resolve their differences, but the more stringent House language is expected to win approval. If not, the deal among House Republican leaders will probably fall apart.
The full House and Senate could take up the bill in the coming weeks as part of a larger spending package. That means there would be no vote specifically on lifting the Cuba sanctions, only on the larger bill.
 The bill would also lift unilateral food and medicine sanctions against Libya, Sudan, North Korea and Iran. Under the bill, Iran would also be ineligible for private financing from American banks.
The House Republican leaders reached their agreement early this morning after nearly six hours of negotiations.
House Republican leaders long opposed any weakening of the embargo against Cuba, which is meant to put pressure on President Fidel Castro. But an intense lobbying campaign by agribusiness and recent action by Congress and the Clinton administration to ease trade restrictions on other nations, including China and North Korea, helped soften the Republican opposition this year.
Even so, the White House expressed reservations about the deal, mostly because it would require the president to get Congress to approve the imposing of future sanctions on sales of food and medicine to other countries. That has been a presidential prerogative.
Representative George W. Nethercutt, the Washington Republican who championed the bill, described the agreement as a "fundamental shift in American foreign policy."
Doing business with Cuba, he said, is "not as easy as it would otherwise be" because of the restrictions. "But the door is open and that's what's important."
Representatives Lincoln Diaz-Balart and Ileana Ros-Lehtinen, Florida Republicans, said they viewed the agreement as a symbolic matter that benefited their agenda as well. For instance, the bill would turn existing federal restrictions on tourism into law. Currently, federal rules specify who can travel to Cuba, with cultural and religious groups among them.
That provision brought a round of criticism from House and Senate Democrats.
The Republican proposal "not only does too little to insure that U.S. food and medicine will reach the Cuban people," said Representative Sam Gejdenson, a Connecticut Democrat, in a typical comment. "It also will unnecessarily interfere with critical people-to-people contacts."
The reaction from Cuba was negative. The president of the National Assembly, Ricardo Alarcon, said the bill contained "unacceptable discriminatory conditions."
The bill is silent on existing law that complicates the transport of farm goods to Cuba. Under a 1992 law, any ship that visits Cuba, whether registered in the United States or a foreign country, is barred from calling at any United States port for six months, and most analysts agreed this adds another obstacle to the deal.
The limitation "makes it less attractive commercially," said Wally Workman, vice president of international affairs for the United States Chamber of Commerce.
Still, agricultural and business groups, as well as academic experts, said the bill could be the first chink in the armor of American sanctions to clear Congress.
"The main thing that it means politically is that this is the first time that the U.S. Congress has taken a decision to open up economic sanctions with Cuba, I think ever," said Jorge Dominguez, a professor of government at Harvard University.
For the House Republican leadership, the agreement was a political calculation. Mr. Nethercutt faces a tough re-election bid in a swing district and, with a slim Republican majority in the House, leaders did not want to defeat him on his signature issue and anger his constituents. Neither did they want to anger Cuban-Americans.
The Elian Gonzalez saga also played into Congressional sensibilities this year after the boy's plight prompted a widespread discussion of America's policy toward Cuba.
Gov. George W. Bush, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee, said today at a news conference in Wayne, Mich., that he continued to oppose the legislation, saying no softening in sanctions are warranted until Mr. Castro puts an end to human rights violations.
"I have opposed lifting the sanctions, and I still continue to do so," Mr. Bush said. He expressed skepticism that Mr. Castro would let food reach his people, and added, "I like to remind people this is a man who is tyrannical."
Aides for Vice President Al Gore, the likely Democratic nominee, said Mr. Gore took issue with the bill's interference with a president's right to issue sanctions.
The biggest beneficiaries of the bill would be large agricultural companies, which have lobbied Congress for years to lift the embargo.
They are best equipped to help obtain loans for Cuba from foreign banks. But unlike Iran, with its oil, Cuba has no hard currency exports to speak of.
Cuba withdrew from the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund in the 1960's and so is barred from any financing from them.
Cuba buys from countries like France, China and Canada, whose governments heavily subsidize the sales.
The American Farm Bureau calculates that Cuba spends $1 billion a year on agricultural products.
In the next 12 months, American farmers stand to make sales to Cuba of $25 million to $45 million, according to an estimate by the U.S.-Cuba Trade and Economic Council, a center financed by businesses.
The Cuban-American National Foundation, the leading anti-Castro lobby, said it would fight the bill.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WASHINGTON REPUBLICAN (65%); HOUSE REPUBLICAN (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE REPUBLICAN (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES; IRAN; NORTH KOREA; SUDAN; LIBYA; UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (96%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); CHINA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; FOOD; AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CREDIT; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; TRAVEL RESTRICTIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOBBYING (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPROVALS (88%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); EXPORT TRADE (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); AGRICULTURE (72%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (58%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: NETHERCUTT, GEORGE W (REPR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) LINCOLN DIAZ-BALART (58%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); ILEANA ROS-LEHTINEN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



706 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1574 words

HEADLINE: Justice Dept. Moves to Block Merger of Two Phone Giants

BYLINE: By SETH SCHIESEL with DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
The Justice Department sought to curb the headlong consolidation of the telecommunications industry yesterday by moving to block WorldCom's proposed $115 billion acquisition of the Sprint Corporation.
At the same time, in the face of opposition in Europe, WorldCom and Sprint formally withdrew their deal from consideration by the European Commission, reserving the option to file again in the future. 
 The Justice Department, while seeking an injunction against the deal in Federal court, cited concerns that the combined company would stifle competition on the Internet and in the long-distance telephone industry. Industry executives said the filing probably doomed the deal, which was agreed to last year and would have created an Internet powerhouse and the nation's second-largest long-distance phone company after AT&T. Two days ago, the European Commission's top antitrust regulator said he was unlikely to support the deal, contending that it would place too much Internet traffic under control of one company.
Regarding their plans, the companies said only that they would review their options. WorldCom and Sprint could fight the government in court, but executives from the companies have said in the past that they would almost surely abandon their deal in the face of a government suit.
People close to the companies said that while Sprint and WorldCom remained unlikely to battle the Justice Department through an entire trial, they might file preliminary objections to the suit in hopes of reopening negotiations to win approval.
Shares of Sprint fell $1.1875, to $58.375, while Worldcom stock rose $2.1875, to $39.6875.
The attempted merger is the biggest the department has ever tried to block, dwarfing the previous largest -- Lockheed Martin's $8.3 billion plan to acquire Northrop Grumman, which would have created a behemoth in the military industry. Lockheed and Northrop abandoned their pact in 1998 in the face of the Justice Department's opposition.
Yesterday's move indicates that the Justice Department intends to draw limits, even amid the multibillion-dollar consolidation in various sectors of the telecommunications industry, as companies of all size and description try to expand their geographic and technical reach.
Earlier this month, AT&T won conditional approval from the Federal Communications Commission for its $58 billion acquisition of the MediaOne Group Inc., one of the nation's biggest cable television companies. And less than two weeks later Bell Atlantic won the F.C.C.'s conditional approval of the company's $53 billion acquisition of the GTE Corporation, a deal that will create the nation's biggest phone company. In both cases, the Justice Department had already signed off on the mergers, provided that certain conditions were met.
One merger still pending antitrust and regulatory review is America Online Inc.'s proposed $165 billion acquisition of Time Warner Inc. That deal would create the biggest company in both traditional and electronic media.
But the America Online-Time Warner deal could have an easier time with regulators than the WorldCom-Sprint merger, at least on antitrust grounds. Because WorldCom and Sprint currently compete in many of the same markets, their merger appears much more vulnerable to a traditional antitrust challenge than the deal between America Online and Time Warner, which are not significant competitors in any of their far-flung operations.
Antitrust regulators traditionally consider whether a merger would reduce competition and, as a result, limit customer choices. In its filing with the United States District Court in Washington, the Justice Department made just such an argument, saying that a Sprint-WorldCom merger would reduce competition in markets where the two companies are currently rivals.
"This merger threatens to undermine the competitive gains achieved since the department challenged AT&T's monopoly 25 years ago," Attorney General Janet Reno said in a statement yesterday. "It is critical to our economy that we preserve competition for services that many of us rely upon in our everyday lives -- long-distance calls, data network services and Internet connections."
At a news conference, Joel I. Klein, the assistant attorney general in charge of the Justice Department's antitrust division, said that his main concern about the WorldCom-Sprint deal was that it would reduce the number of major competitors in the long-distance market from three to two.
WorldCom acquired the MCI Communications Corporation in 1998 and still uses the MCI brand for some products. AT&T controls roughly half of the $80 billion long-distance business while WorldCom currently controls about 20 percent and Sprint about 8 percent.
"The difference between two and three bidders can be very, very significant," Mr. Klein said in an interview. "They're both on the tube and in telemarketing to compete for your business. When you take one of them out, most consumers are aware, that restricts your options,"
Similar considerations would probably not apply in the America Online-Time Warner deal, because the companies generally do not compete in the same markets. The exception is areas where Time Warner's Roadrunner cable modem Internet-access service competes against America Online's Internet service over telephone lines.
"Sprint-WorldCom is irrelevant to AOL-Time Warner," said Scott Cleland, a regulatory analyst in Washington for the Precursor Group, an independent research firm. "WorldCom-Sprint is a very different sort of merger in that it is a straight horizontal merger, and AOL-Time Warner is a vertical merger. The horizontal mergers have a lot of precedents and very clear guidelines. Vertical mergers have very few guidelines and few standards so it's much more an unknown."
Mr. Cleland said the closer comparison for AOL-Time Warner would be the AT&T-MediaOne deal that the government has already approved. That comparison is cold comfort for WorldCom.
People close to WorldCom and Sprint had said last week that the two companies were considering big concessions -- including a complete spinoff of Sprint's long-distance telephone business and Internet operation -- to appease antitrust regulators. But in the end, the concession offer never came, those people said, because the Justice Department wanted the companies to also agree to a spinoff of Sprint's local phone business. WorldCom was reluctant to agree, while Sprint was adamantly opposed, they said. Mr. Klein refused to discuss details of his negotiations with the two companies.
WorldCom could consider some concessions because its main goal in acquiring Sprint was to gain control of Sprint's extensive wireless telephone network -- a business in which WorldCom has a neglible presence.
In a terse statement yesterday, WorldCom said: "WorldCom was advised today that the U.S. Department of Justice intends to file suit to block WorldCom's proposed merger with Sprint. WorldCom will promptly review its options with Sprint."
J. Richard Devlin, Sprint's general counsel, said in a statement: "We are disappointed that we have been unable to convince the Justice Department that the merger is in the best interest of the American public and would advance competition. Over the next several days we will determine our next steps."
Investors yesterday were already trying to handicap the companies' next moves. If WorldCom and Sprint do in fact tear up their deal, WorldCom will still lack a wireless operation and will probably still seek one.
The most likely candidates are Nextel Communications Inc., based in Reston, Va., and the VoiceStream Wireless Corporation, based in Bellevue, Wash. Shares of both companies rose yesterday on speculation that either could become the next potential target for WorldCom. Nextel stock rose by $1.4375, to $60.625, while shares of VoiceStream closed at $126, up $4.875 in Nasdaq trading.
If Sprint remains single, its most likely consolidation partners appear to be the BellSouth Corporation and Deutsche Telekom of Germany. BellSouth, the only one of the seven original Baby Bell local phone companies that has not yet participated in a major merger, lost a bidding war for Sprint with WorldCom last year.
Deutsche Telekom, meanwhile, has long cast about for entree to the United States market and until last year was a partner with Sprint in an international venture called Global One. Each of those companies, however, could face serious regulatory or legal hurdles.
BellSouth, as one of the regional Bell companies that emerged from the breakup of the old American Telephone & Telegraph Company in 1984, is currently not allowed to sell long-distance communications services to customers in its core Southeastern region. Long-distance, of course, is Sprint's main business.
Under current laws and regulations, Deutsche Telekom, Germany's main phone company, would probably face few serious hurdles to acquiring Sprint. But yesterday, Senator Ernest Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, introduced a bill that could block such a deal.
"All American companies are vulnerable to takeover, and we want full control," the senator said.
Under the Hollings bill, companies in which foreign governments own a stake of 25 percent or more would not be allowed to acquire United States communications companies. The German government owns 58 percent of Deutsche Telekom.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (94%); VZ (NYSE) (94%); S (NYSE) (94%); LMT (NYSE) (66%); TWX (NYSE) (60%); AOL (NYSE) (60%); NOC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (63%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (60%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (60%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (60%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (53%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (53%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (53%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (53%); 

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: SPRING COMMUNICATIONS; WORLDCOM INC; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; AT&T CORP VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (94%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (94%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (66%); MEDIAONE GROUP INC (63%); TIME WARNER INC (60%); AOL INC (60%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (97%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (97%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: SPRING COMMUNICATIONS; WORLDCOM INC; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; EUROPEAN COMMISSION; AT&T CORP US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (97%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (97%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (94%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (91%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); MERGERS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); LITIGATION (76%); ADMINISTRATIVE PROCEDURE (76%); INJUNCTIONS (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (70%); CONSUMER LAW (68%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%); 

PERSON: SCHIESEL, SETH; RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN); LEONHARDT, DAVID CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



707 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1235 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Hired a Detective Agency To Investigate Microsoft's Allies

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF and MATT RICHTEL 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, June 27

 BODY:
The Oracle Corporation acknowledged today that it had hired a prominent Washington detective firm to investigate groups sympathetic to its archrival, the Microsoft Corporation, an effort that yielded documents embarrassing to Microsoft in the midst of its antitrust battle with the government.
Oracle's admission today followed reports linking the detective firm, the Investigative Group International, to an unsuccessful attempt this month to obtain documents from a pro-Microsoft trade group, the Association for Competitive Technology, by offering payments to janitors at the group's Washington office. 
 Oracle said the investigations on its behalf had established that the association and two other organizations "were misrepresenting themselves as independent advocacy groups, when in fact their work was funded by Microsoft for the express purpose of influencing public opinion in favor of Microsoft during its antitrust trial."
Documents from two of the organizations were cited in articles in The New York Times and The Wall Street Journal showing that the groups had received financing from Microsoft.
An official of one of the groups said he thought documents that later showed up in the news media were on two laptops stolen from the group last June. But an Oracle spokesman said the company had stipulated to the detectives that nothing illegal was to be done in the operation.
"When Oracle asked I.G.I. to investigate numerous Microsoft front organizations, we didn't specify how I.G.I. should go about gathering information," the spokesman said. "We did, however, insist that whatever methods I.G.I. employed must be legal." He said Oracle was repeatedly given such assurances.
Norman Harrison, president and chief executive of the detective firm, issued a statement saying he had no comment. The firm's chairman, Terry Lenzner, did not return calls.
The episode indicates the profound bitterness of the software-industry rivalry between Microsoft and Oracle, companies headed by two of the world's richest men: William H. Gates of Microsoft and Lawrence J. Ellison of Oracle.
Vivek Varma, a Microsoft spokesman, said tonight, "This is further proof that our competitors have conducted and paid for and orchestrated a public relations and lobbying campaign to generate government intervention into a industry that is highly competitive and delivering for consumers."
The detective that Oracle turned to, Mr. Lenzner, a onetime Watergate investigator, has come to prominence in recent years in his work for the tobacco industry and the Clinton White House, gathering information on their accusers. A Microsoft law firm even hired the Lenzner firm earlier this year to assist in a software piracy and counterfeiting case.
Oracle said it had retained the detective firm in June 1999 to investigate the Independent Institute of Oakland, Calif., a free-market policy institute that had just placed full-page advertisements defending Microsoft -- signed by 240 academic figures and portrayed as reflecting independent views -- in The Washington Post and The New York Times.
In September, The Times, citing internal institute documents, reported that the Independent Institute's ad was actually paid for by Microsoft. The Times said the documents had been provided by a Microsoft adversary associated with the computer industry who refused to be further identified.
A Times spokeswoman, Catherine Mathis, said it had long been the paper's policy not to disclose the names of confidential sources.
Last month, an article in The Wall Street Journal reported that the National Taxpayers Union, which had issued a study blaming the antitrust case for a loss of value in state pension funds, had received financing from Microsoft. It attributed the information to a person familiar with the group's corporate fund-raising.
"We take it that there has been no suggestion of any improper activity by The Journal, or any knowledge by The Journal of any such activity by any of its sources, and we know of none," said Richard Tofel, a spokesman for the newspaper.
The other group that Oracle acknowledged was a target of the investigation, the Association for Competitive Technology, is a pro-Microsoft trade group. According to documents from the company that manages the association's office space, a woman offered two cleaning workers cash on two occasions early this month to hand over trash from the group's office.
The offers were rebuffed. The woman making them had gained access using a key from another tenant, whose credit application bore the name of an investigator identified in the past as an agent of the Lenzner firm.
A Oracle executive said the company knew nothing about that incident other than what had been reported in the press.
And the executive said Oracle had had no involvement in another episode, in which Microsoft's support for a free-market lobbying group called Citizens for a Sound Economy was reported in The Washington Post.
Both that group and the Independent Institute reported recent thefts of laptop computers from their offices that they said might have contained documents that later appeared in the press.
The targets of the Oracle-backed investigation expressed outrage this evening, suggesting that the company was guilty of the same dirty-pool tactics of which it has long accused Microsoft.
"It's despicable," said Jonathan Zuck, president of the Association for Competitive Technology. "I would hope to get a letter of apology from Larry Ellison and an explanation of how, in a climate over so much concern over the issue of privacy, he could think this is an acceptable business practice."
He said he was considering legal action over what he said was a violation of his employees' privacy in the trash-buying attempt.
"This is not dumpster diving in offices outside the building, this is bribery," he said. "It's also a security issue."
Repeated requests by phone and e-mail for comment from Mr. Ellison, the Oracle chairman, were unavailing.
David J. Theroux, president of the Independent Institute, said Oracle had called into question its own credibility. "Clearly anybody who stoops to whatever was done here, you can't trust," he said.
He asserted that the documents that were cited in The Times obscured the debate because they implied that the Independent Institute was a front for Microsoft. Mr. Theroux said the Institute was advocating free-market policies for years before Microsoft ever became a supporter.
"It's unfortunate that instead of engaging the issues in a visible public forum," Mr. Theroux said, speaking of Oracle, "it was considered to be appropriate to use subterfuge and back-alley tactics to deal with the issues."
John Berthoud, president of the National Taxpayers Union, based in Alexandria, Va., said, "It's disappointing but perhaps not unexpected that Microsoft opponents, who are trying to use the American judicial system to run down Microsoft, would stoop to these kind of political tactics against the voices of the free market."
Mr. Berthoud said he had been approached by reporters contending they had been given internal financial documents from his group. But he said he had not seen the documents and could not verify their authenticity.
He said his group "engages in the rough and tumble of politics," but added, "This kind of nonsense is uncalled for and below the belt."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 2000, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in some copies yesterday with the continuation of a front-page article about an acknowledgment by the Oracle Corporation that it had hired a detective firm, Investigative Group International, to investigate groups sympathetic to the Microsoft Corporation misspelled the name of the chairman of the investigative firm. He is Terry Lenzner, not Lenzer.
 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Terry Lenzer, a former Watergate investigator and the head of the Investigative Group International. (Associated Press)(pg. C2)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (94%); WPO (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (50%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP; INVESTIGATIVE GROUP INTERNATIONAL; ASSOCIATION FOR COMPETITIVE TECHNOLOGY ORACLE CORP (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (94%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); WASHINGTON POST CO (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT; MICROSOFT CORP; INVESTIGATIVE GROUP INTERNATIONAL; ASSOCIATION FOR COMPETITIVE TECHNOLOGY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DETECTIVES (PRIVATE); COMPUTER SOFTWARE; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US) ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (92%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIVE SERVICES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); SOFTWARE PIRACY (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); COUNTERFEITING (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LITIGATION (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (66%); EXECUTIVES (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (50%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN; LENZNER, TERRY; RICHTEL, MATT LAWRENCE J ELLISON (58%); BILL GATES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



708 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 28, 2000
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: Higher Demand Raises Pressure On Power Grid

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

 BODY:
The breakdown of three electric feeder cables on the Upper East Side of Manhattan on Monday forced Consolidated Edison to take emergency measures to prevent a widespread power failure. It was, on a smaller scale, exactly the same type of failure that started a chain of events leading to the 19-hour blackout in northern Manhattan during a heat wave last July.
Months of recriminations and investigations followed last year's blackout, and Con Ed said it would spend $315 million to prevent the situation from ever happening again. 
 Con Ed officials said yesterday that despite the problems Monday, the system worked as intended, with only eight buildings affected and 76,000 customers inconvenienced.
"Over all, the system performed very, very well," said Bill Donohue, Con Ed's vice president for electrical operations. "Remember we serve about 3.1 million customers, and we are talking about the fact that we asked eight buildings to reduce the load for a couple of hours."
But with the summer heat just beginning to settle in, Monday's incident served as a reminder that power companies in the New York region are confronting two distinct challenges -- routine equipment breakdowns, like failure of transmission lines, and a limited capacity to generate power -- each of which has the potential to pitch large sections of the city and its suburbs into dark misery at little or no warning.
In either case, the problems stem from a seemingly inexorable rise in energy demand. The record for power use, set before last year's blackout, is expected to be broken again this year. At the same time, electric power producers in New York State have reached their maximum generating capacity, and the first of a new generation of power plants will not open for at least two more years.
"Another summer and another crisis is what we have," said Ashok Gupta, a senior economist with the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group. "And this is going to be true for the next two or three summers." He and other energy experts suggest a more foreboding situation: the prospect that even with local distribution lines working perfectly, there will not be enough power to meet public demand.
The problem is not specific to New York. Across the country, with the economy booming and more people taking for granted air-conditioning, computers and gadgets of various shapes and sizes, demand for electricity is swiftly outpacing supply. Experts say only a steady program of power plant construction and energy conservation can ensure smooth operation of millions and millions of television sets, personal computers and cellular phone chargers and, yes, plain old light bulbs.
The public's insatiable thirst for energy comes at the same time that many states, including New York, are experiencing profound changes in how the sale and distribution of electricity are managed with the nationwide deregulation of public utilities. Con Ed, for example, is getting out of the power generation business to become primarily a distributor.
As with any deregulation, the result is more competition with a goal of cheaper energy. Lower prices, of course, only further increase demand. Free market fluctuation can also go the other way, as it did with huge price increases in May, caused by a surge in demand because of hot weather and higher prices for fossil fuels used to create electricity.
Experts say it is hard to predict what, if any, effect the shortage in the New York power supply will have on residential electric bills between now and the opening of new power plants in two to three years. Because of deregulation, prices are expected to be lower during nonpeak months.
Because of the May increases, which took prices from a normal level of $30 per megawatt-hour to $3,900 per megawatt-hour, the New York State Public Service Commission has proposed a rate cap of $1,000 a megawatt-hour. The cap is opposed by energy producers and distributors as well as by environmentalists who say lower prices just raise demand.
Regardless of price and even with sufficient generating capacity, as with any mechanical system, breakdowns are inevitable.
In Connecticut and throughout New England, officials declared a power watch yesterday and urged consumers to reduce their energy use after a minor problem Monday night caused a disruption in energy supplied by the Seabrook nuclear power plant in southern New Hampshire.
Interruptions of energy supply -- a plant's unexpectedly going off line, for instance, or a main supply line breaking down -- can usually be handled by tapping into energy reserves, which all power grid operators are required to maintain. New England officials declared the power watch to avoid tapping too deeply into their reserves in case further problems arose from yesterday's hot weather.
In New York, the peak electricity demand this summer is expected to reach 30,200 megawatts, up from about 29,700 megawatts in 1999. With reserves, the state can produce a total capacity of about 35,600 megawatts, said William J. Museler, president of New York Independent System Operator, an organization that operates the state power grid. "We do believe we have enough capacity to supply the load this summer, but on any given day, when you get up to these levels, it's tight," he said. "The problem is there is not much more in New York, and some of the capacity that we count on in New York comes from other regions."
But New York City and Long Island are "load pockets," areas that because of geography can import only a limited amount of electricity. New York City, which is generally required to maintain reserves equal to 18 percent of its daily load, has been operating at about 300 megawatts, or 3 percent, less than that, local energy executives said. Long Island, too, has barely maintained its reserve levels.
"We are about 300 megawatts short in the New York metropolitan area," said Richard Cattle, chief executive of Keyspan, which produces more than 6,000 megawatts in the city and on Long Island.
Unlike supply problems, distribution problems are much less predictable. Overhead power lines can get knocked down by wind or snow or a car accident. Underground lines can overheat. Local transformers can fail. Careful monitoring of the system can help predict some but in no way all of these problems. And these are the problems most likely to cause summer blackouts.
Con Ed officials said they were confident that the extra money being spent this year to reinforce the distribution system would prove effective. On the supply side, companies are pushing to build power plants. The first of a new generation of plants, to be built in Greene County, received final approval in May. Companies have proposed more than a dozen other power plants in the state.
Energy executives, regulators and environmentalists say communication is a major part of the solution: to warn of problems, encourage conservation and efficiency. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday that city officials would meet with Con Ed to assure better communication in case of future problems.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: July 1, 2000, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Wednesday about problems faced by power companies in the New York region in meeting the summer's high demand for electricity misidentified the chief executive of Keyspan Energy, which supplies power for Long Island and parts of New York City. He is Robert Catell, not Richard Cattle.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Electricity Demand Nears Peak Forecast"
On Monday, New York City electricity use approached the predicted high for the summer.
 
Graph tracks the electicity used in New York City since May.
(Source: New York Independent System Operator)(pg. B5)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UPPER EAST SIDE; NEW ENGLAND STATES (US); ; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL) POWER FAILURES (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); PROCESS STEAM UTILITIES (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); ENERGY DEMAND (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); WEATHER (73%); DEREGULATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); NATURAL RESOURCES (69%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (66%); POWER & COMMUNICATION SYSTEM CONSTRUCTION (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSZENHORN, DAVID M

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2000



709 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 4; Column 1; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: PERSONAL SHOPPER;
And Now for Some Portable Seaside Attractions

BYLINE: By Marianne Rohrlich 

 BODY:
COMPACT, lightweight and colorful gear makes a day at the beach a day at the beach. And while adults search for the best insulated cooler for a picnic, children need the right equipment, too; sturdy plastic diggers help small hands dig deep holes.
1. The Backpack beach chair has insulated pockets for food and drink and an attached umbrella; $70 from Brookstone, (800) 846-3000, or www.brookstone.com. A child's beach chair with canopy comes in red, green or blue; $12.99 at Bed, Bath & Beyond, (800) 462-3966 or www.bedbathandbeyond .com. 2. An oversized yellow beach towel with a 19th-century fish drawing, 52 by 72 inches, is $56 from the Martha By Mail catalog, (800) 950-7130, or www.marthabymail.com. Colorful beach towels (right) are $9.99 at Bed, Bath & Beyond. 3. Diggers are $1.99 at Bed, Bath & Beyond. 4. The Backpack chair, folded. 5. An inflatable cooler is $9.99 at Bed, Bath & Beyond. 6. and 9. The padded Grass Blanket, one of Tibor Kalman's last designs for M&Co., is made of plastic-backed water-resistant polyester. Folded, it's a shoulder bag with an outside pocket; open, it's 56 by 58 inches and costs $60 at the MoMa Design Store, 44 West 53rd Street, (800) 793-3167, or www.momastore.org. A collapsible insulated rolling cooler, big enough to carry everything for a picnic, with three outside pockets is $79.95 from Hammacher Schlemmer, (800) 233-4800 or www.hammacherschlemmer.com. 7. A 71-inch diameter umbrella, hand-painted by the New York artists Guido and Francesca Zwicker, is $690; the chair is $250, at Pescepalla Docks Gallery, 345 Greenwich Street (Jay Street). A leaf-shaped umbrella (rear) is $29.99 at Bed, Bath & Beyond. 8. Beach towels in assorted designs are 34 by 64 inches and cost $29 to $35; from the Pottery Barn Kids catalog, (800) 430-7373. 9. The grass blanket and rolling cooler, shown closed above, with white tinware plates (four for $20) and mugs (four for $16) are from Williams-Sonoma, (800) 541-2233. The plastic cutlery, available in several colors, is $1.99 a place setting at Bed, Bath & Beyond.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: (Photographs by Tony Cenicola for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: CURRENTS (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BBBY (NASDAQ) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS442299 ALL OTHER HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (92%); NAICS442110 FURNITURE STORES (92%); NAICS423210 FURNITURE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: BED BATH & BEYOND INC (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BEACHES; APPAREL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FURNITURE BEACHES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); FURNITURE & HOME FURNISHINGS STORES (90%); BED BATH & LINEN SHOPS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); COOKWARE & KITCHEN STORES (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



710 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 1; Column 1; Circuits

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: In China, Web Revolution Means Games

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: BEIJING

 BODY:
THREE a.m. on a summer Friday here. A smoke-filled room is packed with men, faces lighted by computer monitors, adrenaline running from online combat. Bicycles clutter the alley outside the door under the sign that reads NG Cafe.
The men are muttering into their headsets, discussing attack strategies with teammates seated only a few computers away. Brown and green scenes of soldiers, terrain and tanks scroll rapidly across the screens. A mobile phone rings. "What?" a man snaps at the caller who interrupted him. "I'm playing computer games." 
 NG Cafe is a Net cafe, or a wangba, the businesses that serve as late-night entertainment sites for hundreds of Beijing residents. The putative reason the wangbas operate is to provide online access. But the global scope of the Internet seemed to be mostly an afterthought in a room where 18 of the 20 computers were engaged in electronic warfare with opponents sitting nearby. To many Chinese men, the emergence of the networked computer has less to do with e-commerce than it has with e-battle.
Six juniors from nearby Peking University have come for an all-night session of Starcraft, a popular multiplayer computer game. One of the students, Simon Zhang, said that his economics professor had joked that Americans routed the Iraqis in the Gulf War because they had more experience playing video games. "There's some logic to his joke," Mr. Zhang said.
Everyone in the room is male, a demographic reflected in the fact that the bathroom has only a urinal. Everyone else is directed to a brick hut across the alley. Most of the men, mainly students and professionals who work nearby, arrived around midnight, and many will not leave until dawn.
One man has fallen asleep, his head collapsed against the table. Another is asleep, sprawled across three chairs. An orange sign on the wall reads: "Loud Yelling is Prohibited"; it was prompted by the frequent over-exuberance of players in the throes of victory or defeat. Smoke burns their eyes, and some computer keys are charred from errantly placed cigarettes.
The fact that the government considers the playing of computer games in wangbas illegal has not stopped thousands of them, and their cousins, the game parlors (which typically do not provide Internet access, just locally networked computers) from springing up across China. The term cafe seems excessively elegant for the one-room hovels heated by coal stoves that are NG Cafe's lower-end counterparts and where customers generally pay about 50 cents an hour and play for hours on end.
But the proliferation of wangbas and game parlors in the last three years has vexed a government that aspires to monitor social, political and economic trends. Wangbas, the government believes, have the potential to alter all three.
When the Internet came to China about five years ago, observers around the world thought that it would help reshape the politics and economics of the country by introducing residents to ideas and ways of life that the government had tried to restrict.
When NG Cafe opened, its owners predicted that most of the business would come from people seeking Internet access.
But Wang Peng, who works nights at the cafe, said that in the seven months since the NG Cafe opened, game playing had grown to about 70 percent of business. Visits to wangbas and game parlors from Kashgar to Kunming to Kaifeng revealed similar ratios: people are less likely to be chatting online than battling online. Some wangbas, particularly those near universities, have customers who mostly use the computers for e-mail messaging, chatting or surfing the Web. But the further the cafes are from educated affluent areas, the more computer games take center stage.
Computer games are to Chinese men what pickup basketball games are to American men. Instead of going to the neighborhood court, Chinese men head to their neighborhood wangba. Here, those who are most savvy on the battlefield earn the respect of their peers and engage in the digital equivalent of trash talk.
"It's a social activity," Mr. Zhang said. "Playing a game on the Net is very different from playing a game on a machine because you can feel other people's hearts beating during the game."
He typed in a message to his teammates in Chinglish, a Chinese-English hybrid: "go zhou. wo dian ta." (Go attack Zhou, I've electrified him.)
Mr. Zhang's roommate, Otto Hua, 21, said there were some weeks when he played multiplayer games for more than 20 hours.
In 1998, the government prohibited the playing of computer games in wangbas, a restriction that has been sporadically enforced. (Wangbas were still permitted to provide Internet access, just not for gameplaying.)
In 1999, the government repeated the restriction as part of a collection of regulations that also prohibited wangba customers from engaging in activities endangering national security and disrupting public security and order.
Editorials published in The People's Daily depict wangbas, game parlors and computer games as a "plague" and a "poison." Newspapers and television broadcasts regularly report on students addicted to computer games who do not return home for days, steal money from their parents and give themselves to the wangbas in indentured servitude to pay their bills.
Wangba owners must now go to their local public security bureau to register within 30 days of receiving a business license. In the last several months, government enforcement has become stricter. Several hundred unregistered wangbas and game parlors in Beijing were closed in March, and several hundred wangbas and game parlors in Shanghai were raided last year.
Some wangbas have responded to the clampdown. Feiyu, a wangba chain south of Peking University, has restricted game playing. But other wangba owners are resisting limits on their lucrative businesses. Last year, a wangba owner in the province of Zhejiang challenged the restrictions in court saying that despite its social harm, computer gaming has the potential of aiding development of information technology in China. In February, the courts rejected the claim, citing wangbas' societal harm.
By 4:30 a.m., the sky over NG Cafe is light. Mr. Zhang and his classmates leave at 5:30 a.m. after five hours. By 8 a.m., most of the older customers have left and another wave of players, mostly younger, arrives, ignoring the sign that prohibits elementary and middle school students from entering.
"We're not afraid of the regulations," said Zhang Shi Miao, 13, a student at a middle school. "The government is overreacting. Most people don't become addicted to computer games. It's just for fun."
Many customers are unaware that playing computer games in wangbas is forbidden.
"We don't know about these rules. Therefore the responsibility is not on us," said Mr. Zhang when told of the regulations. "If they don't strictly administer the law, then we can still go on playing."
He said it was unlikely that the government would suddenly strictly enforce the prohibitions.
"There are too many interests in computer-game playing for that to happen," he said. "In America you would call it lobbying. In China we call it bribery."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Men playing games in Beijing on computers in the NG Cafe, a wangba, or Internet cafe. (Photographs by Justin Guariglia for The New York Times)(pg. G1); When the NG Cafe opened in Beijing, its owners expected Net access to be the big draw. But game playing, until all hours of the night, has grown to 70 percent of the business. (Photographs by Justin Guariglia)(pg. G7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

COMPANY: NG CAFE (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (91%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available from NYTimes. COMPUTER GAMES (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER MONITORS (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (88%); DESERT STORM (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); MEN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: SIMON ZHANG (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



711 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section G; Page 15; Column 1; Circuits 

LENGTH: 2108 words

HEADLINE: BROWSER;
A Bit of This and That: The Net as a Flea Market of Ideas

 BODY:

CARFREE.COM: www.carfree.com A site dedicated to the proposition of car-free cities.
 
CORN CAM: www.iowafarmer.com/corncam/corn.html If you film it, they will come: watch corn grow. 

EMPIRE STATE BUILDING LIGHTING SCHEDULE: www .esbnyc.com/html/facts.html What the colors signify at the world's most famous skyscraper.
 
FARMERS' MARKETS: www.ams.usda.gov/farmersmarkets /map.htm Find farmers' markets nationwide.
 
JUST WINDMILLS: www.geocities.com/Yosemite/1001 /windmill.htm A tribute to windmills.
 
NEW YORK CITY DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH RESTAURANT INSPECTION INFORMATION: www.nyclink.org/html/doh /html/rii/index.html Would you like vermin with that? Results of New York restaurant inspections.
 
SUBWAY NAVIGATOR: www.subwaynavigator.com/bin /cities/english Descriptions and maps for any journey along the subway systems of more than 60 cities.
 
YUMMIE: yummie.s-one.net.sg/Links.htm A guide to the best places to eat in Singapore, and recipes.
 
25 MOST INTERESTING WEBCAMS: www.earthcam.com /top25 Links to many Web cams, including the Kremlin, NASA, and the White Mana Diner in Jersey City.
 
 
Reference and Tools
 
555-1212.COM: www.555-1212.com Area codes.
 
ANAGRAM FUN: www.anagramfun.com "Personal Web site" becomes "we bar politeness."
 
BEAUCOUP: www.beaucoup.com/1refeng.html Links to more than 2,000 online reference sites.
 
THE BELLS APPLET: www.cs.ubc.ca/spider/kvdoel/bells /bells.html Do your own change ringing, traditional English church bell patterns.
 
BIOGRAPHICAL DICTIONARY: www.s9.com/biography /search.html More than 28,000 notable people.
 
THE DIALECTIZER: www.rinkworks.com/dialect Translations into redneck, pig latin and hacker.
 
HOME PRICE CHECK: fool.homepricecheck.com/top.html
Find out what your neighbors' houses cost.
 
INTERNET WEATHER SOURCE: weather.noaa.gov/weather /current/KBID.html Real-time weather data.
 
THE LIBRARY OF CONGRESS ONLINE CATALOG: catalog.loc .gov Search the country's library.
 
THE NEW YORK PUBLIC LIBRARY: www.nypl.org/catalogs /catalogs.html Search library catalogs and, with a library card number, free databases as well.
 
OFFICE OF THE NEW YORK STATE COMPTROLLER: www.osc.state.ny.us/ouf Find out if New York state owes you money.
 
OFFICIAL UNITED STATES TIME: www.time.gov Choose a state from an online map, then synchronize your watch.
 
THE THOUGHT FOR TODAY QUOTATION ARCHIVE: webpages .ainet.com/gosner/quotationsarch Wit and brevity (except in the American Presidents section).
 
THE UNIVERSAL CURRENCY CONVERTER: www.xe.net/ucc
Conversions for dozens of world currencies.
 
YIDDISH IN AMERICA: www.koshernosh.com/in-ameri.htm
Yiddish words, not just for the nebbish.
 
Sports
 
BALLPARKS: www.ballparks.com/baseball/index.htm
Facts and seating charts for every major league baseball park.
 
CANOEING AND KAYAKING INFO: www.paddling.net For the paddling enthusiast, Product reviews, trip ideas and essays on techniques.
 
COOL KI TRICKS: www.bodymindandmodem.com/CoolKi /CoolKi.html Akido tricks that you can learn to fool your friends into thinking you are tougher than you really are.
 
DOG AGILITY PAGE: www.dogpatch.org/agility Everything about the sport of agility training for dogs. See if Rover has what it takes.
 
DUKE BASKETBALL REPORT: www.dukebasketballreport .com Daily updates from the Blue Devils.
 
JIGSAW PUZZLES: A BRIEF HISTORY: www.mgcpuzzles.com /mgcpuzzles/puzzlehistory/index.htm Jigsaw history.
 
NADIACOMANECI.COM: www.nadiacomaneci.com A fan site dedicated to Nadia Comaneci.
 
PAINTED WARRIOR'S DESIGNS: users.aol.com/maskman30 /gallery.html A fan's gallery dedicated to the fallen art of hockey goalie mask art. Ah, an early Cheevers.
 
RIVALS: www.rivals.com Local sports coverage from hundreds of sources.
 
ROWING FAQ: www.ruf.rice.edu/crew/rowingfaq.html
A sweep? A skull? All about rowing.
 
STAGE FRONT SEATING CHARTS: www.stagefronttickets .com/Seating_Charts/seatingcharts_home.htm From a ticket-selling site, seating charts for sports events.
 
WEB SURFER'S GUIDE TO BALLROOM DANCING: www.sit.wisc.edu/acjeong/home.htm Instructions for every kind of dance, from the two-step to the hustle.
 
Politics and Current Events
 
CRAYON: www.crayon.net Users create customized home pages of links and headlines from news sites around the world.
 
INTERNET LAW LIBRARY: www.phillipsnizer.com /internetlib.htm Summaries of decisions on Internet law.
 
NEWSPAPER NETWORK: www.n-net.com Listings for newspapers from all over the United States.
 
JIM ROMENESKO'S MEDIANEWS: www.poynter.org /medianews News and gossip about American media.
 
OPINION-PAGES: www.opinion-pages.org Opinion, editorials and commentaries from the English-speaking press.
 
THE SMOKING GUN: www.thesmokinggun.com A well-known site that publishes confidential documents obtained from government and law enforcement sources.
 
Arts, Music and Popular Culture
 
AD CRITIC: www.adcritic.com Digitized TV commercials.
 
AIN'T IT COOL NEWS: www.aint-it-cool-news.com The king of all film fan sites.
 
THE AMERICAN THEATER WEB: www.americantheaterweb.com Play listings and theater news.
 
THE ARCHIVE OF MISHEARD LYRICS: www.kissthisguy.com
 Fans send in their own misheard lyrics.
 
ART MUSEUM: www.artmuseum.net Museum and gallery collections.
 
ARTS AND LETTERS DAILY: www.cybereditions.com /aldaily Links to academic articles and information.
 
BIBLIOMANIA: www.bibliomania.com Hundreds of searchable texts including dictionaries and religious texts.
 
BLAXPLOITATION.COM: www.blaxploitation.com A fan's tribute to the genre that produced Shaft and Superfly.
 
CATCH-A-FIRE: www.catchafire.com Dedicated to cutting-edge urban music, art, poetry, politics and news.
 
THE CHRONICLE: www.chronicleworld.org A biting, well-written zine about black life in Britain.
 
COWPIE SONG CORRAL: www.roughstock.com/cowpie /songs Country and western songs and guitar chords.
 
THE CRAFT AND SULLEN ART OF DYLAN THOMAS: www .pcug.org.au/wwhatman/dylan_thomas.html Information on Dylan Thomas, with links.
 
D. FILM: www.dfilm.com A haven for independent films.
 
FUTURE WAVE SHAPER: www.bigwig.net/nook Sound clips include music samples and silly audio bits.
 
GALLERY 9: www.walkerart.org/gallery9 Internet-based art works from the Walker Art Center.
 
GLENN GOULD ARCHIVE: www.gould.nlc-bnc.ca/egould.htm
An archive about the pianist Glenn Gould.
 
THE IDE VIRTUAL DESIGN MUSEUM: www.io.tudelft.nl /public/vdm/fda/fda1.htm An archive of modern design.
 
LASTING IMAGE: www.eastgate.com/LastingImage An online short story with hyperlinks.
 
LITERATURE AND LIFE: The Givens Collection: www.pbs.org /ktca/litandlife/main.html African-American literature.
 
MARSHALL MCLUHAN: www.mcluhan.utoronto.ca /mm.html An introduction to McLuhan's theories.
 
MEDIA CENTRE: media.macm.qc.ca/homea.htm Art sites from the Musee d'art Contemporain de Montreal.
 
MUSEUM OF AMERICAN POETICS: www.poetspath.com
Contemporary poetry: virtual exhibits and videos.
 
NEW MUSIC BAZAAR: kalvos.org Resource for fans of very contemporary classical music.
 
NEW YORK AREA IRISH TRADITIONAL MUSIC AND DANCE: www.inx.net/mardidom/rcnycal.htm Celtic news and events from the New York area.
 
OPEN STUDIO: artcontext.org/draw An interactive blackboard lets visitors collaborate on drawings.
 
RADIOSPY: www.radiospy.com A commercial site featuring music news, reviews and dozens of radio links.
 
THE REMIDI PROJECT: www.theremediproject.com Cutting-edge graphic designers experiment with the Web for exhibitions of non-commercial projects.
 
REPRESENTATIVE POETRY ONLINE: www.library .utoronto.ca/utel/rp/indexauthors.html Poetry database.
 
SHAKESPEARE MAGNET POETRY: www.shakespeare.com /Poetry/ieindex.html The online version of the fridge magnet game of rearranging Shakespeare's words.
 
SONGFILE: songfile.snap.com/index_2.html Was Shaft a "complicated man" or "carpet-cleanin man"? Find out here.
 
WHOLENOTE: www.wholenote.com An online community for guitarists with interactive lessons.
 
WHOOSH: whoosh.org Each monthly issue of this fan site features articles about "Xena: Warrior Princess."
 
THE WIZARD OF OZ: lcweb.loc.gov/exhibits/oz An online exhibit by the Library of Congress.
 
Science
 
ASTRONOMY PICTURE OF THE DAY: antwrp.gsfc.nasa.gov/ apod/astropix.html A place to see the universe.
 
GREATEST ENGINEERING ACHIEVEMENTS OF THE 20TH CENTURY: www.greatachievements.org The Internet doesn't even make the top 10 on this ranking.
 
THE LEAP FRACTAL GAME: www.geom.umn.edu/java/LeapFractal A brainteaser designed by a geometry student.
 
SCITECH DAILY REVIEW: www.scitechdaily.com A lively science and technology review.
 
SKYWATCHING CENTER: earthsky.worldofscience.com/Features/Skywatching A night-by-night sky calendar.
 
SPRING AND FALL MIGRATION TABLES: www.nuthatch.birdnature.com/timetable.html Follow bird migrations.
 
Computer Technology
 
THE CATHEDRAL AND THE BAZAAR: www.tuxedo.org/esr/ writings/cathedral-bazaar The open-source story.
 
FREE ONLINE DICTIONARY OF COMPUTING: wombat.doc.ic.ac.uk/foldoc/index.html A lexicon of computer-related terms.
 
GHOST SITES: www.disobey.com/ghostsites Steve Baldwin, the editor of Ghost Sites, keeps track of Web sites that have died, yet have vestiges behind.
 
INFORMIT: www.informit.com With free membership, full-text access to computer books.
 
INTERESTING HACKS TO FASCINATE PEOPLE: hacks.mit.edu/Hacks A gallery of "ethical" pranks and other mischief performed by M.I.T. students.
 
LEXICON OF SEMICONDUCTOR TERMS, ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS: rel.semi.harris.com/docs/lexicon/A.htm An advanced glossary of computer technical terms.
 
MACINTOUCH: www.macintouch.com The latest hardware and software news for Mac users.
 
MEMOWARE: www.memoware.com A good place to download books and documents for the Palm.
 
OBSOLETE COMPUTER MUSEUM: www.obsoletecomputermuseum.org Photographs and descriptions of computers you wish you hadn't thrown out.
 
PALMGEAR: www.palmgear.com Links for members of the Church of the Holy Palm Pilot.
 
TIMELINE OF COMPUTER HISTORY: www.computerhistory.org/timeline/index.page Detailed, year-by-year entries.
 
THE TUCOWS NETWORK: www.tucows.com Shareware.
 
ZEN AND THE ART OF THE INTERNET: www.cs.indiana.edu/ docproject/zen/zen-1.0--toc.html Written in 1992 but still a great full-text book on the Internet.
 
History
 
BUCKMINSTER FULLER'S DYMAXION HOUSE: www.hfmgv.org/dymaxion The circular house by Fuller.
 
CLASSIC TYPEWRITER PAGE: xavier.xu.edu/polt/typewriters.html Pays tribute to typewriters.
 
CONELRAD: www.conelrad.com A site dedicated to the culture of the Atomic Age.
 
DECLARING INDEPENDENCE: lcweb.loc.gov/exhibits/declara/declara4.html History of the Declaration of Independence.
 
THE FABULOUS RUINS OF DETROITS: www.bhere.com/ ruins/default.htm An artist's tour of Detroit.
 
THE GREAT CHICAGO FIRE AND THE WEB OF MEMORY: www.chicagohistory.org/fire/intro/gcf-index.html Looking at Chicago's Great Conflagration.
 
THE HISTORY OF GAME THEORY: william-king.www.drexel.edu/top/class/histf.html A useful introduction to the much-cited, little-understood tool of economic theory.
 
HISTORY AND POLITICS OUT LOUD: www.hpol.org Includes Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s speeches and the Watergate tapes of President Richard M. Nixon.
 
A HISTORY OF HARD HATS: www.bullard.com/companyInfo/ hardHatHistory.html From a hard-hat company.
 
JOHN A. ROEBLING'S SONS COMPANY ONLINE HISTORY ARCHIVE: www.inventionfactory.com/history /main.html Behind the steel cable for the Brooklyn Bridge.
 
THE LOST BORDER: www.brianrose.com/lostborder.htm Photographic essay on the fall of the Berlin Wall.
 
POMPEII FORUM PROJECT: pompeii.virginia.edu The site dedicated to Pompeii, the doomed Roman city.
 
SEE THE U.S.A.: AUTOMOBILE TRAVEL AND THE AMERICAN LANDSCAPE: nbm.org/Exhibits/See_the_U.S.A.html The changes car travel brought to architecture.
 
SELECTED TOBACCO RESOURCES: www.tobacco.neu.edu/ links/tlinks.htm Video clips of vintage cigarette ads.
 
THE SHOWROOM OF AUTOMOTIVE HISTORY: www.hfmgv.org/histories/showroom/intro.html A selection of historically significant cars.
 
THE THOMAS JEFFERSON PAPERS: memory.loc.gov/ammem/mtjhtml/mtjhome.html Online images of all the Jefferson papers at the Library of Congress.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: List

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); SINGAPORE (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET INSPECTIONS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LIBRARIES (87%); LIBRARY TECHNOLOGY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); WEATHER (77%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (77%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (76%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (76%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (63%); HOME PRICES (62%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



712 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 10; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 33 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES

 BODY:
EURO FALLS. The dollar strengthened against the euro after the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged. In New York, the euro settled at 94.17 cents, down from 94.63 cents on Tuesday.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since January 1999 . (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%); MEXICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY EURO (92%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); CENTRAL BANKS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



713 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section F; Page 2; Column 5; House & Home/Style Desk 

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: TURF;
Minorities Still Lag In Homeownership

BYLINE: By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
AS the United States roars through the Year 2000 still in the midst of the longest housing boom on record, there are disturbing signs that minorities remain at the bottom of the homeownership gap, according to a report issued this week by the Joint Center for Housing Studies at Harvard University.
The report found that although government loan programs directed toward minorities have increased significantly, a greater percentage of whites than blacks own homes, creating a gap of 25.8 percent, about the same as in 1994. Hispanics, who are fast becoming major players in the country's housing market, still fall 23 percent below whites in terms of homeownership. 
 Especially in such prosperous times, these problems of affordability are "deeply troubling," said Nicolas P. Retsinas, the center's director. "The signs are that, yes, the gap will keep getting bigger. The history is that in good times the gaps narrow. But in these good times -- about the best we know of -- they have not."
At the same time, minorities are becoming a larger part of the population. While today 75 percent of households are white, that number will shrink to 71 percent by 2010. There will be nearly 12 million more households, and minorities -- classified in three groups, as black, Hispanic, and Asian and others -- will make up nearly two-thirds of that growth.
The Harvard study noted that rising housing costs create pain for everyone, regardless of race and income. Rents have risen across the country, signficantly in the Northeast and the West where Portland, Seattle and San Francisco have posted record rents.
Homes cost more, and so do mortgages. Adjusted for inflation, mortage costs rose nearly 5 percent between 1998 and 1999. Down payments rose 3.5 percent, for an average increase of $442. House prices hit record highs in 15 of the nation's 39 biggest cities: only Buffalo, Miami and Rochester saw a decline in prices. But the study found disproportionate impacts on the poor. As house prices and mortgage costs rise, the poor are experiencing increased difficulty in finding homes, not only to buy but also to rent. Ninety-thousand federally subsidized housing rental units have been lost since the early 90's, as landlords have opted out of federal programs, in many cases because they want the freedom to raise rents to market levels. Housing authorities are also demolishing public housing projects without replacing them in equal numbers.
The stock market has made fortunes for many people. But the biggest investment for most Americans is their home. This is especially true among homeowners who are black or Hispanic.
In the face of these statistics, Darren Walker, the chief operating officer for the Abyssinian Development Corporation, which builds housing in Harlem, says he finds it incomprehensible that the largest lenders in New York are not writing more loans for African-American applicants.
The study reported that many minorities were taking out more expensive loans -- called subprime -- which are geared to home buyers with poor credit. The Harvard study found that such high-interest loans had risen fivefold from 1993 to 1998.
Mr. Walker contended that minority homeowners in Harlem are the focus of intense advertising efforts by the subprime lenders; often, home buyers -- even those with excellent credit -- do not realize they must pay higher interest for these subprime loans than what would be offered by a mainstream bank.
"These numbers reinforce our contention that the mainstream lenders have still not fully embraced the minority communities," he said.
Mr. Walker said that subprime lenders, whose interest rates are currently one to three percentage points higher than the prevailing 8 1/4 percent home mortgage rate, at least "allow people who wouldn't otherwise own a home to be able to swing it."
The annual Harvard report, "The State of the Nation's Housing," poked holes in the belief that home buyers and renters alike are increasingly drawn to center cities. While some households choose lofts and condominiums downtown, the report found that Americans still prefer the suburbs, often with good reason: from 1990 to 1997, jobs in the lower-density fringes of metropolitan areas grew 19 percent, compared with only 4 percent in the urban core.
In 1998, the report said, most minority and low-income buyers chose the suburbs. In the Northeast, a full 72 percent of low-income buyers bought in the suburbs, compared with 60 percent in the West. Hartford, Atlanta and Miami were the most unpopular cities among home buyers: 85 percent of low-income borrowers in those markets chose not to live in their downtowns. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: JOINT CENTER FOR HOUSING STUDIES HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (89%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CENTER FOR HOUSING STUDIES HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MINORITIES (US); BLACKS; MORTGAGES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (68%); 

PERSON: ROZHON, TRACIE DARREN WALKER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



714 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 6205 words

HEADLINE: Between the Lines, A Measure of Hurt;
A Newsroom Divides After a Healing Series on Race

SERIES: HOW RACE IS LIVED IN AMERICA: Tenth article of a series.

BYLINE: By DANA CANEDY 

DATELINE: AKRON, Ohio

 BODY:
Swept up in the rush of New York City, Carl Chancellor and Bob Dyer looked like any other tourists that bright May weekend in 1994. There they were, snapping pictures at the Statue of Liberty, savoring Jamaican food at a trendy restaurant, clinking beer bottles and wineglasses in heady toasts back at their hotel.
But more than simply tourists, they were colleagues out on the town celebrating. In the long months that had led them to New York, Mr. Chancellor and Mr. Dyer were part of a team of reporters for The Akron Beacon Journal that had explored the racial attitudes of this city of 215,000 people. Their series earned the paper journalism's big award, the Pulitzer Prize. The two had gone to New York to bring the medal home. 
 Back in Akron, there were Champagne showers and congratulatory speeches for a staff that had united behind the series and gloried in having been a healing force in the city, organizing and promoting projects to bring the races together. The Beacon Journal also tried to lead by example. Shortly after the series ended, the paper introduced a lineup of columnists reflecting "the perfect demographic," as Mr. Dyer put it. They included a black woman and a white woman as well as Mr. Chancellor, who is black, and Mr. Dyer, who is white.
The Beacon Journal, it seemed, had become a proud model of racial enlightenment, and the men were at the top of their careers. Which made it all the more startling when the jubilation began to fade.
The two columnists came to be viewed almost as counterpoints on race, starting with some explosive columns that divided many of their colleagues and angered readers. In an especially polarizing episode last year, the columnists fell out over a single word -- niggardly.
Mr. Chancellor, who is 47, had been sipping coffee in his living room and channel-surfing through the morning news programs when a voice stopped him cold. Someone was defending a white District of Columbia official who had come under fire for using the word niggardly in a budget meeting with a black colleague. Mr. Chancellor said he felt his temperature rising when the white face looking back at him through the television screen suggested that any black person who took offense at the word obviously did not know what it meant. When he reached the newsroom that morning, Mr. Chancellor was still angry. So he pounded out a column telling readers that he understood why the debate over niggardly was generating national attention.
Years earlier, a Beacon Journal colleague had said at a union meeting that management was being niggardly with raises. Mr. Chancellor recalled thinking then that white people toss the word around too freely, knowing it means stingy but also that it reminds blacks of a far more hurtful word.
"In both cases, the incident in D.C. and my personal experience, the use of the word niggardly was calculated," he wrote. "It was a sophomoric, smart-alecky and cowardly way to deliver an insult through the back door."
Not a bad topic for readers to chew on, Mr. Chancellor thought. One of them was Mr. Dyer, and he could not swallow what his friend was dishing out.
"I think the reaction I had to this column was, like, 'What? You've got to be kidding,' and it was very widespread among people of my color,' " said Mr. Dyer, 48. "So part of me said, 'Let's get equal time here.' "
He did, in a rebuttal in the paper's Sunday magazine. "To defend the firing of a man who used a word that somebody misunderstood is to defend ignorance," Mr. Dyer wrote, noting that niggardly had an origin different from that of the word it was being compared with. "Today, apparently, if you say 'two plus two equals four' and somebody among the oppressed masses sincerely believes the answer is five, the person who said 'four' is wrong."
Mr. Dyer hit the send key on his computer and called Mr. Chancellor to let him know what was coming. He considered Mr. Chancellor a friend, after all.
As office acquaintances go, the men had gotten to know each other fairly well over the 15 years they had worked together. Before there were lawns to tend and children to raise, they would meet after work on the basketball court, maybe share a beer.
"When we were covering baseball games and stuff, and just during lulls, we might talk about our families and our dreams and aspirations," Mr. Chancellor recalled. But he will not go so far as to say that he and Mr. Dyer were ever friends. "I guess we tried to stay away from some of the harder subjects or the more politically controversial subjects," he said.
But that unspoken agreement was fractured by the "niggardly" debate; at the height of it the men were barely speaking. And the rift extended beyond them.
"I guess the buzz was all around the newsroom that he was writing it," Mr. Chancellor said of Mr. Dyer, "and people would come by patting him on the back, massaging him, kind of reading over his shoulder and cheering him on.
"The black folks in the newsroom were upset, and so they called me at home and told me: 'Oh, you should see what is going on here. Everybody is cheering Bob Dyer on.' "
Mr. Chancellor was not about to let Mr. Dyer dismiss his view in print. So before Mr. Dyer's response was published, Mr. Chancellor read it, and in an unusual decision, his editors let him write a rebuttal to the rebuttal that went to press the same day.
"Well, I have been taken to the woodshed not only by my readers, who have called and written by the score, but also by some of my colleagues," Mr. Chancellor wrote in the later column.
"If I say that I'm offended by the word niggardly being used in my presence, my objection may make no sense to you, but I have a right to those feelings," he wrote.
"If, for example, you are standing on my toes, it is completely up to me to determine if my foot is hurting and to what extent."
The Beacon Journal's editor, Janet C. Leach, who is white, now says it was a mistake to let the columnists slug it out in print. "I don't recall getting involved with this until Carl wrote his rebuttal, and then I was like, 'Oh, why are we even bothering our readers with this?' "
Even so, she stands by her decision to let Mr. Chancellor throw the last punch. "Bob was attacking Carl's opinion," Ms. Leach said, "so Carl was allowed to defend his opinion. Although no more of this."
The columnists have since called a truce. "We were both hot at each other a little bit," Mr. Chancellor said, "but then it blew over."
Still, the men occasionally wonder whether confronting racially sensitive issues has hurt their careers. And many among the 157 people on the news staff -- 15 percent of whom are black and 4 percent other minorities -- say that although the city's racial climate may have improved because of the series, seven years later the newspaper itself has shown less progress.
A few reporters who worked on the series still socialize, and some editors say it made them more attuned to potentially offensive articles, photographs and headlines.
"I was made more aware of some of the stresses and strains that affect black people and how what I might do or say could impact that," said David Hertz, a white editor.
Still, some of the staff seems resigned to the notion that though blacks and whites may act polite toward one another, they are still divided by mistrust and misunderstanding. Bonnie Bolden, the metro editor, who is white, summed up the sentiment: "I will never again say things are fine."
This is a place that just a few years ago was overcome with race religion. Troubled by the state of race relations, The Beacon Journal had gone further than most newspapers to investigate the gap between blacks and whites and to understand why it had not closed. It found mistrust and misperceptions, frustrations and tensions; it even looked inward, discovering much the same in its own newsroom. It had found, it seemed, a way to talk about race. And yet even here, in a place where men and women make a living seeking answers to questions and using words well, communication can break down. And race still seeps back in.
 
A Race Report Card
Walk into the third-floor newsroom and it is obvious that the race project, "A Question of Color," remains a source of great pride to The Beacon Journal, a scrappy member of the Knight Ridder chain with a daily circulation of 140,000. Against a wall the Pulitzer medal, for public service -- the fourth Pulitzer in the paper's 162-year history -- shines under a spotlight in a plexiglass case surrounded by reproductions of the articles in the series.
For Mr. Chancellor and Mr. Dyer, the work reflected in that display is a reminder of more than the career-enhancing accolades and the New York weekend. They remember the months they sat behind a two-way mirror and listened to panels of citizens talk about race. White women admitted that they still crossed the street to avoid black men. Black fathers said they still did not want their daughters marrying white boys. When blacks and whites were thrown together, they mostly smiled politely and talked about the need to get along.
Mr. Chancellor and Mr. Dyer shaped those conversations into front-page articles that introduced the race series in February 1993 with what the paper described as "a separate, but equal, focus on our differences." Mr. Dyer's article appeared under the word whites in bold letters and Mr. Chancellor's under the word blacks.
When it comes to race, The Beacon Journal told readers: "Whites are tired of hearing about it. Blacks wish it would go away. All seem powerless to move it." But what was behind the divide, the paper was asking, and why did it persist?
Long before the newspaper sought the answers, those questions had nagged at David Hertz. It was 1992, and there was unrest in Los Angeles after the acquittal of four white police officers in the roadside beating of Rodney King, a black motorist. What troubled Mr. Hertz was that though many people had been disturbed by the incident, blacks had reacted more angrily than whites, and not just in Los Angeles but 2,000 miles away, in Akron.
So with his bosses' approval, Mr. Hertz, then an editor on the night metro desk, gathered a group of colleagues, Mr. Chancellor among them, to discuss how race factored into their work and private lives. Mr. Hertz told how in middle school black children had pushed him around just for being white. A black reporter was in tears recalling the pain of realizing as a young girl that her skin color made her different from a beloved white playmate.
But where to go from there? Mr. Hertz, now the business editor, said it occurred to him that "we needed to do more than a reaction piece" to the unrest in Los Angeles.
His bosses agreed and conceived the race project, committing more than two dozen reporters, photographers, graphics artists and editors to a yearlong series of articles, 30 in all. The goal was to hold race up to the light and look at it from every angle -- personal relations, housing, education, economics and crime among them. But as the work proceeded, and a troubling picture of race relations emerged, the editors decided on a more activist role for the paper.
It helped create multiracial partnerships among local community groups to foster unity and understanding. It also called on individuals to get involved. And they did:
More than 20,000 readers accepted a New Year's resolution challenge made by the paper to commit to racial healing and allowed their names to be published.
Hundreds joined in the first of what has become a yearly "Race/Walk for Unity."
Through "town meetings" on race, organized by the paper, hundreds of others stepped out of the safety of their familiar circles and spoke up. Some who had never shared so much as a cup of tea or a beer with a person of another race even formed interracial friendships.
Churches began holding integrated services, which continue today. At one recent gathering, black congregants from one church and whites from another washed each other's feet in a ceremony that drew from the Last Supper.
And the newspaper started the "Coming Together Project," now a nonprofit agency that coordinates racial-unity programs in and around Akron, a recovering Rust Belt town that is 25 percent black. This month, the Knight Foundation, which offers grants to educational and cultural programs and which is not affiliated with the newspaper chain, gave the project $350,000. The newspaper itself has given $300,000 to the project over the years.
The Beacon Journal's effort to engage the city and its suburbs in a discussion of race was applauded by the Pulitzer judges, at Columbia University. And so encouraging was the social progress attributed to the project that the White House selected Akron as the setting for President Clinton's first "town hall meeting" on race, in 1997.
But not only did the newspaper look at race in its own backyard; it also examined itself. For the final article, Mr. Dyer wrote about race relations among his co-workers and their perceptions of how race affected the crime coverage. The article revealed that the journalists who had written Akron's racial report card were as confused and divided by race as the people whose words and images they had filtered into print.
"I think we all get along, but there are racists in the newsroom," a white journalist was quoted as saying. "I'm talking about people at parties who have a little too much to drink and suddenly start talking about 'niggers.' "
For Mr. Dyer, reporting on his colleagues made the race story almost personal. "I always thought, even well before that series, that people in the newsroom considered themselves enlightened, which was sort of debunked when we did the focus group," he said recently. "You know, we were like any other part of society. We didn't have a clue."
 
A Typical Newsroom
It was a slow February afternoon in the newsroom, and boredom had set in. Suddenly a rubber band whizzed by Reginald Fields, a black reporter. Laughter broke out behind a computer screen a few desks away. Moments later, a white editor, Mitch McKenney, joined in, firing off another rubber band. It was all in fun, a spontaneous show of camaraderie.
Last year, when Melanie Payne, a black reporter, was stricken with a rare heart condition, a steady stream of colleagues, black and white, went to her bedside.
And five months ago, when the newspaper's art director, Terence Oliver, who is black, returned from a church missionary trip to Africa and told the editor, Ms. Leach, how deeply the experience had moved him, she had him write about it for the cover of the local news section.
On any given day, The Beacon Journal newsroom hardly seems like a place where race would be an issue. Even when there is conflict, Mr. Chancellor said, "the real divisions in the newsroom aren't always race-based." Indeed, reporters and editors say that a recent wave of staff reassignments, budget cuts and defections to the rival Plain Dealer, in Cleveland, have done more to hurt morale than any racial tension.
"As a small newsroom, I think a lot of it is petty jealousy, just individual personality conflicts," Mr. Chancellor said. "And I guess it's the daily stress of working on deadline and people blowing up at each other because it's just the nature of the business."
Months can pass without Mr. Chancellor's or Mr. Dyer's writing about race. The subject is not often on the table when editors decide what to put on the front page. Nor is it a daily topic when co-workers meet over vending-machine coffee in the cafeteria.
In one respect, The Beacon Journal is even in the forefront of racial progress. It has a black publisher, John L. Dotson Jr., who, as part of a pioneering generation of black journalists, covered the Detroit race riots in the 1960's and worked for The Philadelphia Inquirer and Newsweek. Editors there, like those in most newsrooms, struggle earnestly with questions of racial sensitivity. They debated, for instance, whether they would publish a photograph of a black man washing a white man's feet during the church service, fearing it would be suggestive of black servitude. (The editors decided not to use such a picture and instead published one of a white man washing a black man's feet.)
Yet even in this environment, race still slips back into the room. It is there when reporters and editors, keeping score, immediately notice the color of a new employee's skin. It is there when a midlevel black editor perceives her demotion as racially motivated. It is there when a white reporter wonders whether political correctness instead of news judgment elevated one obituary, that of a local black civil rights leader, to the front page and relegated another, that of an internationally known white plastics-and-rubber industry inventor, to the cover of the local news section.
And it was there one day when the editor, Ms. Leach, picked up an anonymous memo that had landed on her desk. "It made me sick," she said. The note criticized her hiring of a black journalist, calling the person incompetent, an affirmative-action mistake.
Color-coded scorecards and friendly rubber-band wars. Ask almost anyone on The Beacon Journal staff about the seemingly contradictory images of the place and they will say that the newsroom culture simply reflects the fragility of racial harmony in all segments of society.
"You go into a school and you'll see a bunch of black people sitting in a corner and a bunch of white people sitting in a corner," Mr. Dyer said. "I mean, you've got to really make an effort to go out and reach across."
And you have to be even bolder to speak up about race at work. Is it worth the risk? Mr. Dyer has a mortgage to pay, a new swimming pool and two young daughters to put through college one day.
"You get to the newsroom," he said, "and you're 32 or 34, and you've learned that if you're black and want to succeed or you're white and you want to succeed, you can say this but you probably shouldn't go there, and you ought to just back off."
 
Two Sons of Two Clevelands
Robert Bruce Dyer and Carl Clifton Chancellor were introduced to the world less than a year apart, wrapped in blankets in the same nursery at University Hospitals of Cleveland.
While they started out in the same place, Carl and Bob went home to different worlds in an era of whites-only country clubs and the first rumblings of black civil unrest.
Their early years influenced the men as journalists. "You have two educated men with two educated egos that see things very differently because they were raised very differently," said Sheila Williams, who has lived with Mr. Chancellor for 13 years and is the mother of his youngest son.
Mr. Dyer, the son of an electrical engineer and an amateur figure skater, grew up in a suburban part of mostly rural Geauga County, outside Cleveland, where in pockets the Amish outnumbered the blacks. There he learned about doing unto others as you would have them do unto you; about doing a job right the first time, even if it was just washing your father's car. But race was not a frequent topic at the Dyer dinner table.
There were a few blacks at young Bob's school and some who worked at the country club, where he occasionally dined with his grandfather. But he remembers noticing the all-you-can-eat shrimp more than the help. Far away there were civil rights marches, boycotts, dogs turned on protesters -- events he saw only out of the corner of his eye, on television.
But if the boy with the pale peach complexion saw race mainly in the media, the one with the apple-butter skin saw it in his own reflection. There was no ignoring race for young Carl Chancellor. It was in countless church sermons about better days ahead. It was at his grandmother's kitchen table, where civil rights leaders could count on a hot meal after a protest rally. And it was at a park in Florida, where he was turned away at the whites-only entrance to the glass-bottom-boat ride. (He recalled being one of only a handful of passengers on the blacks' boat, while whites crowded into a boat that looked full enough to capsize.)
Home for the Chancellors was Cedar Estates, a fancy name for a place that was anything but. Their apartment in that Cleveland public housing development was all they could afford while Carl's mother tended to her growing family and his father washed trucks at the electric company to pay his way through law school.
His father, Carl Eugene Chancellor, graduated less than a year after young Carl's birth, and the family was soon on a trajectory from penny-pinching to prosperity. Hired by the electric company's legal department, he promptly moved his family to a better neighborhood on the city's edge. The houses were modest, and every day, it seemed, a moving van rolled in to pack up another white family, but to the Chancellors it felt like sweet suburbia nonetheless.
The elder Mr. Chancellor taught by example, and in time it all made sense to Carl: the fine food, the parties with his father's accomplished black friends -- a doctor, an architect, other lawyers -- and even his father's insistence that Carl pass up a chance to attend a prestigious East Coast boarding school to remain in a public school where the principal and the teachers looked like him. Black did not mean inferior. That is what his father was trying to say.
So Carl did not find it nearly as interesting as some grownups that his father kept getting promoted and had a white secretary. And his only observation about his family's dining at the Four Seasons during vacations to New York was that "my father would always get mad at my little brother because no matter what restaurant we went to, he always ordered a hamburger."
In middle age, Mr. Chancellor is content with the black man he has become. He is 5 foot 10, with a handsome, closely cropped beard and wavy salt-and-pepper hair. He favors tailored slacks, black turtlenecks and Italian leather shoes.
A soccer dad, Mr. Dyer fits comfortably in his skin, too. He is 6 foot 2 with an easy smile, a thick mustache and a full head of dark brown hair. He prefers khakis, cotton sports shirts and loafers.
As different as they are, there is also a sameness about them. Both live in upper-middle-class suburban neighborhoods and say they are pleased that their children have a more racially diverse group of friends than they do. The women in their lives describe them in similar terms, as caring, but opinionated and "macho" too.
"I think we share a lot of values," Mr. Chancellor said. But factor in race, and they can be worlds apart.
"Carl can't understand what it is to be a white male in America any more than Bob can understand what it is to be a black male in America," his companion, Ms. Williams, said.
Once, Mr. Dyer was pulled over on a dark highway after edging in and out of his lane while trying to pass a truck. It struck him, he said, that he had experienced something comparable to racial profiling.
"I resented the fact that I was, you know, sort of randomly pulled over for no good reason," Mr. Dyer said. "I mean, it's not as if people like me never encounter situations where you go, 'What the hell is going on?' "
Another time, at a restaurant with his family, Mr. Dyer thought the service was terrible. When a black family a few tables away got the same treatment, he said, he wondered whether they would attribute it to discrimination and wrote in a 1990 column about seeing race where it may not be.
It is not that bigotry is a figment of the imagination, Mr. Dyer wrote. But, he added: "This white guy keeps getting hammered, too, day after day after day. So don't take it personally. There's plenty of rudeness and incompetence to go around."
For many of his readers and colleagues, though, that column was unremarkable compared to one he wrote in two parts in 1995 during Black History Month. He said it generated more response than anything he had written in 20 years. One call came from the publisher, who summoned Mr. Dyer to explain what he meant when he wrote this:
"I'll give you some black history: For the past 15 years, a race that accounts for only 12 percent of this country's population has caused more than half its problems."
The column went on to say that "guilt-ridden white people have turned us all into contortionists, looking for new ways to twist the truth to make blacks look better." It described Afrocentrism as "the scholarly equivalent of flying saucers."
Explosive words, to be sure, but Mr. Dyer says he was misread. The column, he said, was meant as an uncensored expression of an internal debate with his conscience. It was meant to show the conflicted feelings that many whites have about blacks but are loath to express in a time of political correctness. Yes, he had exaggerated some points for the sake of argument. But Mr. Dyer was certain that even his critics would give him credit for asking, "If things are so equal, care to trade places with an African-American?" His well-meaning conscience also got the last say, reminding him that "things won't improve unless you pay more attention to me."
Mr. Dyer said he had assumed that coming in the wake of the race project and the good will it engendered, the column was timed just right. "I thought maybe now, since we seemed to be acknowledging that we have problems, and we can talk about problems, maybe it's time to push it harder," he said. But he had been wrong.
Whatever his intentions, his words drew little sympathy from some colleagues. "Bob is a racist without even knowing it," said Yuvonne Bruce, a black assistant features editor, who worked on the race series.
Mr. Dyer, who says he gets along with many of his black colleagues, contends that white people risk being slapped with ugly labels when they speak honestly about race.
Mr. Chancellor says Mr. Dyer is not a racist, just naive about the pervasiveness and pain of bigotry. How could Bob Dyer know?
Unlike Mr. Chancellor, he has never had trouble trying to interview fans at Cleveland Indians games because stadium security thought his media credentials might be fake. Nor has he known the anger that boils up in black men who feel under siege.
Mr. Chancellor felt that anger when four white New York City police officers were acquitted in the shooting death of an unarmed African immigrant, Amadou Diallo. The verdict, in February, was fresh in his memory a few days later when he noticed a white police officer driving behind him in a movie theater parking lot.
"I'm thinking, 'If he does say something to me, I think I will go off,' " Mr. Chancellor recalled. "I guess I just came to a decision: 'If he says anything about me, about anything, I'm just going to go off right then and there.' "
As it turned out, the officer was not trailing him but driving to meet an officer up ahead in a parked patrol car.
Mr. Chancellor laughs about the moment now. Life can be funny that way.
Just like the boy he once was, he still sees race all around him. Meanwhile, Mr. Dyer still believes that people focus on it too much.
 
A Column Is Canceled
Carl Chancellor says he knows the double standards. A white man is confident, a black man is cocky. A white man has taste, a black man is flashy. And a white columnist can never write too white, Mr. Chancellor says, but if you are black, you learn quickly that your subjects and your sources had better not be too black too often.
So he found white people on welfare to write about. And if he found a reason to write about somebody who just happened to be black, he said, "I went overboard to not mention his race or downplay it because I was afraid that the readers would miss my point."
Some people in the newsroom suggest that his self-restraint did not go far enough for some editors. Last fall, Mr. Chancellor lost his column and was reassigned to a general news beat. He found himself covering Groundhog Day.
Ms. Leach said the reassignment had had nothing to do with Mr. Chancellor's writing about race but rather with his productivity. She said he had been asked to do more reporting for his columns and contribute news articles as well. When he declined, the column was discontinued, she said.
Mr. Chancellor confirms Ms. Leach's account of what happened but has gone back and forth in his mind about whether the newspaper's demands were meant to force him to give up the column. Many of his black colleagues are far less willing to give the management the benefit of the doubt.
They say Mr. Chancellor was no less productive than any other columnist and that his editors were simply punishing him for some of his views, a charge the editors deny. "I think that management did not like Carl's style," said Melanie Payne, a black features writer.
Ms. Bruce, the black assistant features editor, said she was shocked when she opened her newspaper and discovered that the column was gone. "I felt strongly that we were losing a strong black voice," she said.
In protest, she circulated a petition in support of Mr. Chancellor among only the black staff members. Charlene Nevada, a white editor on the metro desk, said she was not sure whether she would have signed or not. "But it would have been nice to be asked," she said.
The protest surprised Ms. Leach because the journalists went over her head and took their "statement from the minorities," as Ms. Bruce described it, directly to her boss.
The publisher, Mr. Dotson, is no stranger to the complexities of race relations in the workplace. His decades of experience taught him to keep his thoughts and feelings closely guarded to protect himself from all sorts of attacks, he said.
So when asked recently about race relations at The Beacon Journal, he was initially stone-faced and defensive, wondering aloud about how much he should say. When he finally did open up, what he revealed was not so much about the newsroom as about the pressures on a black executive in a largely white industry.
"When I came along," Mr. Dotson said in slow, measured tones, "I would get up in the morning and I would put on this armor and go to work."
Today it is still his first line of defense, the steely gaze, the tight smile, the terse responses. He slips into that posture as easily as he does his crisp white shirts and banker-blue suits.
"It protects me against all of the assaults that I think I undergo," Mr. Dotson said. "They are not racial all the time. Some of it is racial. Mostly it is not revealing my inner thoughts because I don't want to make a misstep."
His caution may be one reason staff members have different readings of him.
"I think it's kind of funny how a lot of people in the newsroom, white people in the newsroom, think he bends over backwards to appease and please the black community and black reporters in the newsroom," Mr. Chancellor said of Mr. Dotson. "When I think if you polled the black people in the newsroom, they'd probably think that it's the other way around."
That is exactly what some blacks in the newsroom concluded after Mr. Dotson responded to the petition by backing the editor's decision to reassign Mr. Chancellor and later supporting her choice of a white man as a replacement.
To some blacks, the decisions sent the wrong message about racial diversity. "I don't think we have anybody leading us who cares," Ms. Bruce said.
But rather than indifference, Mr. Dotson's actions reflect a desire to stay out of day-to-day newsroom affairs, he said. "I try to let the editors run the newsroom," he said.
When he sees fit, though, he does not hesitate to use his power to promote fairness and diversity. Mr. Dotson banned publication of the Cleveland Indians' logo, a caricature of an Indian chief, because it offended some readers. He also persuaded a civic group to change the date of an event that the newspaper was supporting after an editor complained that it fell on a Jewish holiday. And he has hired a black general manager who is widely believed to be his heir apparent.
Differences in perceptions of how race affects Mr. Dotson as publisher extend to the upper echelons as well.
Since Ms. Leach joined the paper in 1998, she has assumed she carries a burden that Mr. Dotson does not. When she speaks in the community, Ms. Leach, the first woman to hold the title of Beacon Journal editor, is inevitably accused of turning the publication into the "Ladies' Home Journal."
"It happens every time," Ms. Leach said. "I don't think they ever ask John Dotson about being a black publisher because it would be politically incorrect."
Not so, Mr. Dotson said, adding: "I just don't talk about it. I mean, when I appointed Jan as editor, one of the questions to me was, 'What are people going to say, The Beacon Journal having a black publisher and now a woman editor?' I mean, that's from within the newspaper."
Mr. Dotson even gets regular calls from a reader who points out instances of the newspaper's appearing to pander to blacks.
"That's America," the publisher said. "What am I supposed to do about that?"
 
The Price of Candor
For now, Mr. Chancellor has made peace with his lowered profile at the Beacon Journal. Though still a general assignment reporter, he has worked on in-depth projects that he cares about and that Ms. Leach says she enthusiastically supports.
He and Mr. Dyer say there are no hard feelings lingering between them and that they have grown to respect each other's honesty. The men even talk about someday getting back to the basketball court. (They still lie about who has the better jump shot.)
These days, Mr. Chancellor spends his spare time writing a novel about a newsroom and a book of short stories, "Soul Songs," about coming of age in the 60's. The Beacon Journal, he said, will not be his last stop, and he does not spend much time thinking about the race project or the column he lost.
As for Mr. Dyer, he still writes a magazine column every Sunday but occasionally questions whether his views have hurt his chances for other opportunities at The Beacon Journal, and whether it would be easier to get ahead if he were not a white male.
"I want to make it clear that I don't know in this case, that it's just total speculation, but the thought had crossed my mind," Mr. Dyer said.
He has grown more reluctant to write about race these days. He knows he is on safer ground when writing about highway sound barriers or the local soapbox derby. His admirers say he can be witty and touching, whether writing a "letter to heaven" to his mother or a "happy anniversary" column praising his wife as intelligent, loyal and "perfectly comfortable with people of different backgrounds, incomes and colors."
"Sometimes he's writing what he believes is right, sometimes he's just writing what he feels," his wife, Becky, said.
And sometimes he still offends even when not trying to be provocative. Readers and colleagues were sharply critical of one column, meant to be humorous, in which he suggested new mascots for local schools. For a mostly black high school, he offered the name Crackheads -- a jab at a member of its basketball team who had been arrested on a drug charge.
"I did not like that one at all," said Mr. Dotson, who characterized Mr. Dyer's columns as generally too sarcastic and negative.
Marilyn Miller Roane, a black reporter, confronted Mr. Dyer about the column. "I told him, 'You just missed it; this is not funny,' " she said. She has concluded that his column speaks to "crybaby white boys."
Such reactions leave Mr. Dyer shaking his head. He argues that the mascot column poked fun at lots of institutions, that he did not single out the black school for ridicule. And he said he was frustrated that people did not remember all he had written to improve race relations. What about the column advocating the hiring of a black news anchor at a local television station? Or the one denouncing harassment of an interracial couple?
Mr. Chancellor says he knows about being misunderstood, too. It is a burden he believes he and Mr. Dyer share.
"I think the general newsroom perception might be that I'm pretty militant and I'm the 'angry black man,' or something like that," he said, dismissing the notion with a roll of the eyes. "Name-calling is something I'm used to."
Mr. Dyer takes it harder.
"Fewer people would think I was racist if I kept my mouth shut," he said. Though tempted to do just that, he says he will not. Remaining silent would mean he had lost all hope of seeing race relations improve.
"If there is a race problem," he said, "it is my problem, too."
 
SUNDAY: Tough lessons for a white quarterback at a mostly black college.
 
About the Series
 
Two generations after the end of legal discrimination, the wider public discussion of race relations seems muted. Race relations are being defined less by political action than by daily experience, in schools, in sports arenas, in pop culture and at worship, and especially in the workplace. These encounters -- race relations in the most literal, everyday sense -- make up this series of reports, the outcome of a yearlong examination by Times reporters.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Carl Chancellor, left, and Bob Dyer of The Akron Beacon Journal. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Though Mr. Dyer and Mr. Chancellor have differed in print, there is a sameness to their suburban upper-middle-class lives.; Carl Chancellor, far left, and Bob Dyer helped produce The Beacon Journal's series on race, which was extolled for promoting racial harmony in Akron. But later they still fell out, in the public forum of their columns, over a racially charged word. (pg. A22); The paper's Pulitzer, surrounded by series front pages, occupies a place of honor.; John L. Dotson Jr., and Charles L. Knight, current and early publishers.; Seven years after the Beacon Journal race series appeared, Akron still feels its effects. The mainly black Arlington Church of God and the mainly white Chapel, which began uniting services after the series, recently gathered to participate in a foot-washing ritual. (Photographs by STEPHEN CROWLEY/The New York Times)(pg. A23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AKRON BEACON JOURNAL AKRON BEACON JOURNAL CO (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AKRON BEACON JOURNAL

GEOGRAPHIC: AKRON (OHIO); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); AKRON, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NEWSPAPERS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BLACKS RACE & RACISM (90%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (74%); RESTAURANTS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (72%); 

PERSON: CANEDY, DANA; CHANCELLOR, CARL; DYER, BOB BOB DYER (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



715 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 290 words

HEADLINE: FedEx Profit Increases 11% As U.S. Shipments Rebound

BYLINE: Bloomberg News 

DATELINE: MEMPHIS, June 28

 BODY:
FedEx, the largest overnight-delivery company, said today that profit in its fiscal fourth quarter rose 11 percent, more than forecast, on a rebound in United States shipments.
Net income rose to $245 million, or 85 cents a share, from $221 million, or 73 cents, in the corresponding period a year earlier. Revenue in the quarter, which ended on May 31, increased 11 percent, to $4.85 billion from $4.38 billion. 
 The average earnings estimate of analysts polled by First Call/Thomson Financial was 81 cents a share.
FedEx said domestic overnight shipments climbed 3.6 percent to the highest level in more than a year, aided by deliveries from drug, telecommunications and auto parts companies. The company revamped its sales force this year to increase shipments between businesses, recover market share lost to the rival United Parcel Service and compete for home deliveries.
"It was a good but not a great quarter," said Geoffrey Kuli, an analyst with Loomis Sayles & Company, which oversees funds that held about 4,100 FedEx shares at the end of March. The growth in United States overnight deliveries "was good to see," he said.
The number of FedEx international priority shipments climbed 14 percent as economies in Asia recovered from recession and as more Latin American and Asian companies adopted inventory methods that required more frequent shipments, analysts said.
The number of United States overnight deliveries by FedEx is more than six times the number of international priority shipments, which are its most lucrative, per package. Domestic air shipments that were not overnight rose 4.3 percent, and packages moved by truck and train climbed 3.1 percent.
FedEx shares rose $1.125, to $38.125.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FDX (NYSE) (93%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (93%); NAICS492110 COURIERS & EXPRESS DELIVERY SERVICES (93%); NAICS484122 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, LESS THAN TRUCKLOAD (93%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (72%); LATIN AMERICA (69%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EXPRESS CO FEDEX CORP (93%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (71%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (72%); LATIN AMERICA (69%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS; DELIVERY SERVICES INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



716 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Text of Fed's Statement

 BODY:
Following is the text of the statement by the Federal Open Market Committee, the Federal Reserve's monetary policy panel, after its decision yesterday to leave short-term interest rates unchanged:
The Federal Open Market Committee at its meeting today decided to maintain the existing stance of monetary policy, keeping its target for the federal funds rate at 6.5 percent. 
 Recent data suggest that the expansion of aggregate demand may be moderating toward a pace closer to the rate of growth of the economy's potential to produce. Although core measures of prices are rising slightly faster than a year ago, continuing rapid advances in productivity have been containing costs and holding down underlying price pressures.
Nonetheless, signs that growth in demand is moving to a sustainable pace are still tentative and preliminary, and the utilization of the pool of available workers remains at an unusually high level.
In these circumstances, and against the background of its long-term goals of price stability and sustainable economic growth and of the information currently available, the committee believes the risks continue to be weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (93%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES MONETARY POLICY (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (68%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



717 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES;
A Drummer on a Roll Revisits His Past Life

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN 

 BODY:
WHEN scheduling bumps Max Weinberg's past life into his present, the marathon begins at 2:30 p.m. He scampers on stage at Madison Square Garden, climbs the drum platform and shoots soundcheck drum blasts that ricochet off 20,000 empty seats.
"I have the best seat in the house," Mr. Weinberg comments dreamily, even after all these years. He'll return hours later to play with Bruce Springsteen and the E Street Band, but now he's rushing to his steady gig at Rockefeller Center. 
 Mr. Weinberg has not played the Garden since 1988, near the end of the glory days, when Mr. Springsteen would introduce his drummer as "mighty, mighty Max," all thunder, no fireworks, imprinting drum surges on hits like "Born to Run."
But when Mr. Springsteen bade the band adieu, Mighty Max reverted to Max Weinberg from South Orange, N.J., becoming just another unemployed drummer with a sore back and seven hand surgeries.
Such is the success of Mr. Weinberg's dogged, at times hangdog, efforts to keep playing -- weddings here, bar mitzvahs there -- that young fans recognize him not from this reunion tour with the E Streeters and the Boss, but from his 90's gig, in which he reinvented himself as a boss, the drummer-leader of the Max Weinberg Seven, the band on "Late Night With Conan O'Brien."
So on nights like tonight, when a New York concert date coincides with the TV show, Mr. Weinberg runs a physical and psychic marathon between NBC, where he wears a silk suit and tie and plays crisp, elegant jump blues and swing, and his rocking past, at the Garden.
There, after taping "Late Night" and dunking swollen hands in ice, he puts on Mighty Max's black jeans and vest, sits stiffly to ease back spasms, and whomps away for three hours, gazing at the Boss.
If there is a heaven on earth for 49-year-old guys in glasses who were supposed to store their adolescent drums in the garage and get real jobs, Mr. Weinberg, a nice, square joe so endlessly grateful for his good fortune that he just gave Springsteen tickets to the Jersey girl who jilted him in ninth grade, is living it.
"It's milk and honey, a privilege," Mr. Weinberg says later, squeezing into the closet-size rehearsal room at NBC to pore through 3,000 titles, selecting 24-bar musical tidbits for Mr. O'Brien's guests as they walk in.
Here, riffing with seasoned musicians, Mr. Weinberg, an otherwise contained and cautious sort -- declining, for example, to comment on Mr. Springsteen's headline-making song "American Skin," about the Amadou Diallo shooting -- relaxes, beaming as he smashes cymbals.
"I like us to look sharp and play sharp," he remarks, odd for a rock demigod. It's odder yet that Mr. Weinberg made his name in rock. For with his dressing room wall an altar to Buddy Rich and his favorite performer, pre-Springsteen, Sammy Davis Jr., Mr. Weinberg more closely resembles his 50's persona on "Late Night."
He had a childhood steeped in Broadway musicals, and a relentless work ethic ever since he was an under-age drumming phenomenon in a three-piece mohair suit, taking any gig in northern New Jersey for love and for the money. The scary years when his father, a lawyer who lost two summer camps he owned in the Poconos, remain fresh.
In 1974 he was living at home, a student at Seton Hall and drumming for "Godspell" on Broadway, when he saw a Village Voice ad. "I showed up for the audition with just a snare, a high-hat and a bass because I didn't want to carry all my drums from 'Godspell,' " Mr. Weinberg recalls. "Bruce saw I was a real meat-and-potatoes drummer, and that I had the true backup mentality." Mighty Max was born.
After they parted 15 years later, Mr. Weinberg, who speaks reverently about Mr. Springsteen (they both still live in New Jersey), floundered. With a wife and two children, he needed work.
He lasted six weeks in law school and a few years as a music scout. His wrists itched: he missed making thousands rise and dance. So at 41, Mighty Max returned to his prepubescent self: scouring the Yellow Pages, he'd take any gig, earning $125 drumming at bar mitzvahs. He was hired for the Broadway rock opera "Tommy." Second substitute drummer.
WHEN Mr. O'Brien replaced David Letterman at "Late Night" in 1993, Mr. Weinberg lunged for the band leader job. In getting it, he has become a cool guy to the next generation, exploring his cross-dressing comic self and, best, working steady, drumming his heart and hands out.
"To be 49 and appreciated by 14-year-olds again?" he says at 7 p.m., after taping a vigorous, demanding "Late Night." "What a thrill! I love signing autographs for people who are kind enough to ask for them."
Gosh, Max!
His face wiped clean of TV makeup, he waits for his driver. Soon he'll gobble steamed chicken, gulp two protein shakes, zoom to the Garden. Change clothes, wrap fingers, warm up with metronome and practice pad: Mighty Max, sideman.
Then, drumsticks will become a roaring blur, spitting broken tips, as his old Boss duels with him on guitar. Streaking pain will be buried in the rush of seeing thousands rise and dance.
The driver is late. Anxious?
"No!" If they fire him, he still has his day job. Besides, he says, with a quietly confident smile: "They can't start without me."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Max Weinberg, in his day-job role as drummer and leader of the Max Weinberg Seven. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CENTER INC (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN NETWORK (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN CORP (58%); MADISON SQUARE GARDEN LP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (69%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN; WEINBERG, MAX BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (79%); CONAN O'BRIEN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



718 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: Gore Plans Tax Credits For Savers Of Energy

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

DATELINE: BLACKLICK, Ohio, June 28

 BODY:
Vice President Al Gore wants more Americans to drive vehicles powered by electricity and to sleep under roofs latticed with solar panels, and today he explained how he would nudge them in that direction: with tax credits of up to $6,000 for buying energy-efficient cars and up to $2,000 for buying houses that meet energy-saving standards.
Mr. Gore's proposals boil down to a philosophy that says that if the federal government wants Americans to live and travel in a fashion less dependent on oil and kinder to the environment, it should make it worth their while. As president, Mr. Gore said today, he would. 
 "When you get the tax credit, then it becomes too good of a deal to pass up," Mr. Gore said as he sat on a stack of drywall in the backyard of a house being built with an array of energy-saving devices in this suburb of Columbus. "Hopefully, over time, that will change the pattern of practice so that these energy-saving options begin to be just the normal way we do things in this country."
"There's no doubt that we can save on energy -- and thus reduce pollution dramatically -- by giving these tax cuts to Americans who want to take advantage of them," he added.
Mr. Gore's aides said the ideas the vice president outlined today would represent about $48 billion in lost federal tax revenue and spending over 10 years.
On Tuesday, Mr. Gore proposed a 10-year, $75 billion package of tax breaks and other measures to motivate utility companies and manufacturers to use more energy-efficient methods to reduce the country's dependence on oil. The vice president was expected on Thursday to make additional proposals that would bring the 10-year price of what he described as a new energy and environmental initiative to much more than $125 billion.
Although Mr. Gore's critics have often painted him as a tree-hugging extremist or a starry-eyed idealist on environmental issues, the vice president has seized on sudden concerns over the country's dependence on oil as an opportunity to dream big environmental dreams. In remarks at a fund-raiser in Washington on Tuesday night, Mr. Gore described this moment as "an echo" of the energy crisis of the late 1970's.
And Mr. Gore spoke today in a suburb that is not only in a swing state for the general election but also in a region of the country hit particularly hard by high gasoline prices.
The Gore campaign and the campaign of Gov. George W. Bush of Texas have spent much of the last week trading bitter accusations that resemble the schoolyard chant, "I know you are, but what am I?"
Mr. Gore and his aides have asserted that Mr. Bush, as a former oilman who has received large sums of campaign money from oil and gas companies, would be unable to stand up to oil-industry interests. And Mr. Bush's aides, in turn, have combed through the vice president's past proposals and statements for suggestions or evidence that Mr. Gore at times supported higher fuel prices and had his own cozy ties to the oil and gas industry.
Today, Mr. Bush's aides complained that the ideas Mr. Gore was promoting were recycled, unrealized proposals by the Clinton administration.
"They're just adding more money," said Dan Bartlett, a spokesman for the Bush campaign.
That was true of some of Mr. Gore's proposals today, but not of others. Mr. Gore's plan included a tax credit of 20 percent of the cost of home equipment that does not rely on oil, like electric heat pumps, hot water heaters and natural gas heat pumps; a tax credit of up to $1,000 for buying solar water heating systems and $2,000 for solar electricity systems; an unspecified tax credit for consumers who choose utilities in their areas that use cleaner energy sources and financial help for low-income families so that they could "weatherize" their homes and save energy.
The biggest tax credits proposed for consumers were those for people who buy vehicles that run at least partly on electricity, or whose fuel efficiency has been dramatically improved in other ways. These credits range from $4,000 for fuel-efficient pickup trucks to $15,000 for fuel-efficient 18-wheel cargo trucks.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vice President Al Gore listened to Mayor Bill Campbell of Atlanta, who cast a shadow, at an economic conference yesterday in Columbus, Ohio. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO; UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (93%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; TAX CREDITS; ENERGY AND POWER; AUTOMOBILES; ELECTRIC VEHICLES; HOUSING; ELECTION ISSUES ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); SOLAR ENERGY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); SUBURBS (72%); FUNDRAISING (65%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%); GASOLINE PRICES (62%); GASOLINE MARKETS (60%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BRUNI, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) AL GORE (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



719 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 4263 words

HEADLINE: Excerpts From the President's News Conference at the White House

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from President Clinton's news conference yesterday at the White House, as recorded by The New York Times:
 
Prepared Remarks
With less than 35 days left in the legislative year, time is running out for Congress to meet its obligations to the American people. They have to make the tough choices to get something done or continue to be dragged down by the weight of special interests. 
 So, again, I ask Congress, Let's not waste these precious weeks. It's time to get down to business, to pass a strong patients' bill of rights, to raise the minimum wage by a dollar over two years, to pass the common-sense gun legislation, to hold tobacco companies not taxpayers accountable for the health care costs of tobacco, to pass hate-crimes legislation, to finish the jobs of giving American businesses and farmers access to a huge new market by passing permanent normal trade relations with China, to open new markets to American investors here at home, to bring prosperity to people and places who've been left behind, and, most important of all, to continue to improve our schools, to demand more of them and invest more in them, including more teachers for smaller class sizes, after-school programs for all our kids who need them, and repairing or modernizing thousands of our schools that are today literally falling apart or are so overcrowded they can't contain all the kids.
We can still do a lot of this if we work together in the days ahead. That's what the American people want us to do even in an election year.
There's been some encouraging developments in this Congress. We lifted the earnings limit on Social Security. We passed the Africa-Caribbean Basin trade bill. Apparently, the bill to aid Colombia is making good progress, and I think the China legislation will pass if we can get it up to a vote in a timely fashion. So the Congress can do a lot of things, and I hope they will, and I'm looking forward to working with them.
 
Questions and Answers
Q. There are reports that Israel and the Palestinians will be coming to Washington next week for talks. Do you think enough progress is being made to arrange a Middle East summit or are you discouraged? And, secondly, should Israel stop the sale of radar systems to China?
A. Let me answer the second question first because that's a much clearer one.
We are very concerned about that sale, and I've talked to Prime Minister Barak about it extensively. And as you know there's a lot of concern in the Congress. So we're still working on that.
Now in terms of their coming here for talks, there has been no date set. I do not believe that they can resolve the final most difficult issues without having the leaders get together in some isolated setting and make the last tough decisions. Or decide not to make them as the case may be.
Of all the issues involved with regard to all the parties in the Middle East peace talks, the final status issues between the Israelis and the Palestinians are the most difficult. I do not, however, believe they are going to get any easier with the passage of time. . . .
Q. Do you believe that Governor Bush made the wrong decision by allowing Mr. Graham to go to his death last week? And secondly, do you believe it's time for the American people to stop and reassess where we stand on implementation of death penalty in this country?
A. Well on the Texas case, I didn't read the file. All I know about it is what I've read about it in the press. But let me say generally what I think that those of us who support the death penalty have an extra heavy responsibility to assure both that the result is accurate and that the process was fair and constitutional. And that means to me, at least in modern terms, the broadest possible use of DNA evidence and the strongest possible effort to guarantee adequate assistance of council. That's a big issue.
And I think those were two of the reasons that motivated Governor Ryan in Illinois to do what he did. And it has driven a lot of other things in this debate.
So that's where I think it is. Now, I don't know that the American people have changed their position that it's still an appropriate penalty under certain severe circumstances, and I haven't. But I am concerned also at the federal level with the -- I don't believe adequate assistance of council is an issue in the federal cases. And as far as I know, there are no cases in which the question of DNA is an issue. But there may be, I just, I don't know if there are some.
The issues at the federal level relate more to the disturbing racial composition of those who've been convicted. And the apparent fact that almost all the convictions are coming out of just a handful of states. Which raises the question of whether, even though there's a uniform law across the country, what your prosecution is may determine, may turn solely on where you committed the crimes. So we, I've got a review underway of both those issues at this time.
 
Gore Investigation
Q. Mr. President, as you know, for the third time a Justice Department investigation has recommended that the vice president's activities in fund-raising during the last campaign cycle be looked into. Previously, on two occasions, the attorney general has declined to do this. Would it be better for the attorney general, for your administration and for the vice president's candidacy if he invited such an investigation?
A. Well, first let me say, my understanding is -- I know this is true in the previous cases and I think it's true here, is that there are some people in the Justice Department that think there should be, and some who think there shouldn't be. And the attorney general, who has shown no reluctance to ask for a special council when she thought one was called for, didn't think one was called for in this case and she reaffirmed that yesterday. And I think the fact that the vice president released the transcript of his interview was a very good thing because some Republican senators had made some assertions about it that just weren't so, they weren't true. And now that the -- the whole thing has been put out in the public it seems to me that -- that the best thing to do is for the -- for the American people to make their own judgments about it, but I don't see any reason that the attorney general shouldn't make a decision in this case as she has in every other one. Claire?
Q. Mr. President, another question about your vice president. A year ago, when people looked at his poll numbers compared to the Texas governor's, his supporters would say, 'Oh, the election's a long way off.' Six months ago, people were saying, the election's a long way off with those same poll numbers. And today his supporters are still saying that and I wonder do you think it's time to suggest that this might be a trend, that there is a reason why the vice president is trailing the Texas governor in the polls? And secondly, you have said that the vice president will not be held accountable, that the American people will not hold him accountable for the scandals of this administration. Do you still believe that's the case or is this in fact part of it?
A. Well, first of all, I said, no, let me say exactly what I said. I said that the people would not hold him responsible for anything I did that they didn't agree with or that was wrong. And that's clearly true. That's still true. There's no evidence of that in the surveys.
Secondly, let me remind you that a lot of these other so-called scandals were bogus. Mike Espy was acquitted; the Cisneros thing was a tempest in a teapot, totally overdone. And you all know that the Whitewater thing was bogus from day one; it had nothing to do with the official conduct of the administration anyway.
Now, so the word scandal has been thrown around here like a clanging teapot for seven years and I keep waiting for somebody to say -- I know that there was one columnist in The Washington Post that had the -- the uncommon decency to say, will no one ever stand up here and say that a whole bunch of this stuff was just garbage and that we had totally innocent people prosecuted because they wouldn't lie. We had totally innocent people's lives wrecked because they wouldn't go along with this alleged scandal machine. So let's be careful, let's be specific.
Now, I've already told you my view is that the vice president on the only thing as far as I know that he's been in any way implicated in is this campaign finance thing. He put out the whole transcript of his interview, made himself available for questions, and, I thought, made a very compelling case and certainly demonstrated that a lot of the accusations against him with regard to that are not so.
There was also a very interesting article, I think in The National Law Journal, which basically went through all of the -- the things and concluded that there was no basis for a lot of these criticisms of him under these circumstances. And I think another magazine here, maybe The New Republic, The Washington Monthly, one of those other magazines, had an analysis of it. So I think we should be very careful in throwing that around.
Now, let me come back to the polls. First of all, I must say, I -- I haven't looked at -- I haven't seen any or done any lately, so I don't know. But I'm -- I'm perplexed that -- I can't remember a time when we had two major polls coming out within a couple of days of each other that had 13 points difference. One said there was a 13-point difference in the race; the other one said it was tied, and they came out and they were done within two or three days of each other. I don't mean that -- I don't think either one of those pollsters rigged the results. So my instinct is that people are still trying to figure out what they think about this race. And all I can tell you is I know three things, and I've said this over and over again, I know three things: One is no person in the history of the republic has ever had the positive impact on this country as vice president that Al Gore has had. That is a historical fact. We've had a lot of presidents who were vice presidents who were great presidents: Jefferson, Teddy Roosevelt, Harry Truman were great presidents. But not because of their service as vice president. Nobody has ever done as much for America as vice president as Al Gore has. Therefore, in my lifetime, he's the best qualified person to serve.
The second thing is I believe that he's right on the issues, on, I think, his economic policy is right. I think it's far more likely to keep the prosperity of the country going. I think it's far more likely to include people that would otherwise be left out.
And the third thing is I think it's important that somebody be elected that understands the future. That -- we just announced this genome project yesterday. What are we going to do to make sure there's no genetic discrimination? A lot of people will want genetic discrimination in employment, in promotion, in extension of health insurance. What are we going to do to make sure it doesn't exist? What are we going to do to make sure in the computer revolution that there is no violation of people's privacy rights with their health and financial records? A lot of people will want to get that private health and financial information.
So I think that what will happen is we'll come to the conventions, we'll have these debates and somehow -- what I've been amazed by, an amazing volatility since the end of the -- you know, at the end of the primary campaign most of the polls had him up a point or two. So there's been a lot of volatility in these polls and my best judgment is that people are still trying to figure out what they're going to do. And sooner or later they will. But I don't think they have. And I think they know those three things about Al Gore, and it's still more likely than not that he will win. . . .
 
Abortion Rights
Q. Mr. President, does the closeness of today's abortion vote in the Supreme Court suggest to you that abortion rights are at risk in the next court? Or does it suggest that the fact that partial-birth abortion can survive even a conservative court, say that they aren't as threatened as some believe?
A. Well, first, I think the court decision is clearly the only decision it could reach consistent with Roe v. Wade. So I think what you know there is that -- that that's the vote for Roe v. Wade. You can't have -- you can't have a -- a rule like the rule of Roe and then ignore it. So that's why, you know, I -- if you remember on this late-term abortion issue a couple of years ago I pleaded with the Congress to adopt a broad limitation on late-term abortions consistent with Roe v. Wade, but to make an exception for the life and health of the mother, as the Supreme Court decision required. They declined to do that and so we've had a political impasse here. And then you've seen what's happened in all these states. So -- so the decision is -- is, I think, consistent with Roe v. Wade. And as you've pointed out, it was narrowly upheld. I think that's about what the vote for Roe is. And I think that in the next four years there'll be somewhere between two and four appointments to the Supreme Court and, depending on who those appointees are, I think the rule will either be maintained or overturned, and I think that it's very much in the balance, depending on what appointments are made in the next four years. That's what I believe.
 
Energy Policy
Q. Mr. President, Governor Bush has been critical of you and the energy policy of the administration saying that you've failed to adequately convince OPEC to increase oil production. He also claims that if he became president he would able to use personal diplomacy to persuade allies like Kuwait and Saudi Arabia to, I believe he said, turn on the spigot. Do you find that kind of claim realistic? And do you have any reaction to his criticism of you?
A. Well first of all, I have spent an enormous amount of time on this in the last several months. And there have been two decisions by OPEC to increase production. Not as much as we would like.
If you look at the allocation of the production increases against the real capacity of those countries, most countries don't have the capacity to produce much more than their latest allocation except for the Saudis. And it's clear that they were trying to maintain some sort of harmony within the OPEC family.
I don't, if you -- let's go back. I think that these big increases in gasoline prices in America are the result, as I said . . . several weeks ago, first and foremost of the unfortunate decision of OPEC several months ago to cut back production at the very time the world economy was growing. They left production out there when the world economy sunk, which is one reason we had very inexpensive gas prices for a good period of time. And this was, these two developments grated up against each other. So that's the first thing.
Then the second thing is, we had here, as you know, in America . . . we had a tight supply situation. Then we had some broken pipelines and, which interrupted supplies, which caused a temporary spike. And then in the Midwest we did have apparently some, but I think quite a modest impact on prices because of the intersection of the clean air rules with trying to mix the fuels in a different way, particularly ethanol.
And I think what we have to do now is to keep doing what we can to get production up; to let this F.D.C. investigation proceed. I think that gas prices have dropped 8 cents a gallon in the Midwest. And in the blended-fuels area, 12 1/2 cents a gallon just since the investigation was announced.
But the main thing I would say to you is we need a long-term energy strategy to maximize conservation and maximize the development of alternative sources of energy. And also maximize domestic sources of energy. . . .
 
Supreme Court Rulings
Q. Mr. President, what do you think of the justices' ruling this morning that allows the Boy Scouts to bar gays as leaders? And if you disagree with it, can you justify your role as honorary president of the Boy Scouts, which discriminates against gays and atheists?
A. Well, first of all, the court's ruling, I noticed it with interest. I haven't read it yet, but I did get a pretty good report on it. I noted with interest that they seemed to go out of their way to draw the ruling quite narrowly and to limit it strictly to the question of whether the Boy Scouts could pick the people who were going to be scout leaders.
I generally, I have to tell you, you know, I'm generally against discrimination against gays. I think it's -- and I think that the country has moved a long way and I'm proud of things that we've been able to do and I'm disappointed we haven't been able to do more in some areas. But I think we're moving in the right direction. And I think that's all I should say. I mean, the Boy Scouts still are a -- they're a great group, they do a lot of good. And I would hope that, you know, this is just one step along the way of a movement toward greater inclusion for our society, because I think that's the direction we ought to be going in. . . .
Q. As you know, the Supreme Court declined to intervene today either to stop Elian Gonzalez from leaving the country or to overrule other courts, all of which have deferred to your administration. As you look back on this --
A. That's pretty rare, isn't it?
 
On Elian Gonzalez
Q. As you look back on this, sir, do you have any sense, any regrets at all about the way your administration handled this matter? And in light of what you've said about Cuba here today, sir, do you have any second thoughts about Elian returning to Cuba?
A. Well, if -- if he and his father decided they wanted to stay here, it'd be fine with me. But I think that the most important thing is that his father was judged by people who made an honest effort to determine that he was a -- a good father, a loving father, committed to the son's welfare. And we upheld here what I think is a quite important principle, as well as what is clearly the law of the United States. Do I wish it had unfolded in a less dramatic, less traumatic way for all concerned? Of course I do. I have replayed this in my mind many times. I don't know that we had many different options than we pursued given how the thing developed. But I think the fundamental principle is the right one and I'm -- I'm glad we did.
I -- I would, you know, I was just in Germany having a discussion with Chancellor Schroder about some family reunification issues where we have serious differences with the Germans who are great allies on this. And as I looked and reviewed some of these cases that I tried to bring to the attention of the German officials, it made me even more convinced that we had upheld the proper principle here. Yes, John.
 
Missile Defense
Q. Mr. President, we hear increasingly from senior officials here and at the Pentagon that when it comes to national missile defense you're inclined, essentially, to split the difference: authorize the contracting, but leave the decision about whether to break from the A.B.M. treaty to the next president. Is that a fair reflection of your thinking?
A. The -- the most important thing I can say to you about that today is that I have not made a final decision. And that most of the speculation that is coming in the press is coming from people who have not talked to me about it. And let me -- let me try to at least set up the thing, because I'm working hard on it now. Remember when -- when we put out a -- when the Congress passed a law about this a couple years ago, you remember, and we had to sort of come up with some time tables. I said two things that I want to repeat today. First of all, in so far as there might be technology available which would protect us and other people around the world from missile attacks with warheads of weapons of mass destruction, obviously anybody would have a moral obligation to explore that technology and its potential. I believe that.
Secondly, whether I would make a decision to go forward with deployment would depend upon four things: one, the nature of the threat; two, the feasibility of the technology; three, the cost and therefore the relative cost of doing this as compared with something else to protect the national security, and four, the overall impact on our national security, which includes our nuclear allies in our European alliance, our relationships with Russia, our relationships with China, what the boomerang effect might be about whatever China might do in South Asia with the Indians and the Pakistanis and then so on. So what I have tried to do since then is to say as little as possible except -- except to explore what would have to be done in our relationships with the Europeans, our allies, and with the Russians, in the first instance, to keep our options open. Could we -- could we get an agreed upon modification of the A.B.M. treaty?
Even the Russians, keep in mind, don't -- don't minimize -- everybody talked about how we didn't reach an agreement, Mr. Putin and I when I was in Russia and that's absolutely true, we didn't. But we did get a document out of there which I think is quite important, because the Russians acknowledged that there are new and different security threats on the horizon. That is, that it's quite possible that in the next few years countries not part of the arms control regimes of the last three decades could develop both long-range missile delivery capability and weapons of mass destruction, which they could put on warheads. And that none of this would be covered by the, essentially the mutually -- the mutual deterrence structure of the A.B.M. treaty and all the things we've done since then. So they recognize, too, that -- that we in the new century, in the coming decades are going to have to make adjustments.
Now, what they -- what they don't say is they don't want America unilaterally building a missile defense that they think some day can undermine their deterrent capacity. That's kind of where they are now and we're still talking about all that.
But they -- the -- John, the truly accurate thing is that I have not yet formulated a position which I am prepared to go to the American people with, but I will do so, you know, sometime over the next several weeks based on those four criteria and what I think is -- is the right thing to do. . . .
 
On Congress
Q. Republicans in Congress are seeking to pass the spending bills early this year in an effort to get out of Washington and go campaigning in the fall. And yet there are significant differences between what they want to spend and what you have proposed. I'm wondering, what do you see as the major points of disagreement at this time? And do you think that we're in for the same type of prolonged budget stalemate that had been featured in the past?
A. Well, that's entirely up to them whether we're in for the budget stalemate. But if you just look at the education budget. I mean, how many times do we have to go down this road? You know, it's still not supportive of the 100,000 teachers and the smaller classes. It's still not supportive of the dramatic expansion in after school programs, which is critical to school performance. Still has nothing in there for school construction. Still is inadequate in terms of my plan that people ought to either, they ought to identify these failing schools and either turn them around or shut them down. There are lots of other problems with the school proposal.
If you look at the crime proposals. This is unbelievable. They had, when they wouldn't adopt the common sense gun safety legislation, all I heard was this constant barrage about how if only the administration would enforce on the books, everything would be wonderful. We wouldn't have any problems in America. So I said look, why don't we do both. We have increased gun prosecutions under my administration but we can do more. So please give me some more money for people to investigate gun crimes, for people to prosecute gun crimes, to develop safe gun technology. This whole -- it was nothing but a straight enforcement measure, exactly what they said they wanted, and no money for it.
Still no support for the 50,000 new police officers in the high crime areas. And still the constant threat of these environmental riders and the underfunding of the land's legacy initiative and a number of other things. So we still have some serious differences. Now, we've been doing this every year since 1995, we just of sort of slightly change the script every year. And I'm more than happy to do it again, because, frankly, in the end we normally wind up with an agreement that's pretty good for the American people.
But the timing in which we do it, it depends more on them than me. I'm not going to give up my commitment to education as our most important domestic priority and what we're doing to build the future of our children. And I think, you know, we -- we've got the crime rate down now to a 25-year low. We can't stop the policies that's -- that works and I -- and I, here I gave them a big proposal that is exactly what they say they want and believe in, and they don't want to fund that. So we'll just have to see what happens.
I'm kind of hopeful about it, though. Don't be too -- you know, it's just late June here. This -- this drama has several more acts before it's over.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton leaving his news conference yesterday in the White House. Mr. Clinton took many opportunities in his responses to questions to promote the candidacy of Vice President Al Gore. He discounted polls showing Mr. Gore behind. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); ISRAEL (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (93%); ISRAEL (91%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); MIDDLE EAST (71%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MOST FAVORED NATION STATUS (77%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (74%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (72%); CRIMINAL LAW (69%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (66%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%); HATE CRIME (55%); RADAR SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (73%); EHUD BARAK (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



720 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: 40 China Experts Ask Delay on Antimissile Plan

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM 

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 28

 BODY:
A group of more than 40 American scholars on China and former diplomats is urging President Clinton to delay a decision on whether to build a national missile defense, arguing that the proposed system may do more harm than good to American economic and military interests.
"We are concerned that a precipitous decision to deploy would adversely affect U.S. relations with China," the group says in a letter to be issued on Thursday, "by unnecessarily increasing tensions between the two countries and provoking a series of negative steps by China that would undermine American security." 
 Signers of the letter, which was to be delivered to the White House, include an ambassador to China under President Reagan as well as China specialists from around the United States. Signatures were gathered by the Council for a Livable World, a private group in Washington that lobbies for nuclear disarmament.
Strong political momentum has gathered for construction of a limited defensive system intended to protect against a possible small missile attack from countries like North Korea or Iraq. Mr. Clinton is supposed to decide this summer, after a key test on July 7, whether to begin construction of radars in Alaska.
But many foreign policy experts, scientists and former security officials have questioned the plan on technical or strategic grounds, and it is strongly opposed by Russia, China and even American allies in Europe.
"I'm concerned that the plan will raise the stakes in the arms race by stimulating the Chinese and others to make more missiles," said one signer of the letter, Arthur W. Hummel Jr., who was ambassador to China from 1981 to 1985. "Second, I have grave doubts about whether it will work."
Earlier this month, a group of former top officials including retired Gen. John M. Shalikashvili, who was chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; Sam Nunn, a former Senator from Georgia who was influential on military issues, and William J. Perry, a former Defense Secretary, made a similar public call for delay, as did a separate group of Russia experts.
The proposed system, which involves 100 missile interceptors based in Alaska in the first stage, would violate the Antiballistic Missile Treaty signed with the Soviet Union in 1972. The administration has tried, without success, to persuade Russia to agree to treaty revisions, arguing that limited defenses would not undermine Russia's nuclear forces.
But China's objections run deeper. Officials here say that in a showdown with the United States, the deterrent effect of China's small nuclear force, which includes perhaps 20 long-range missiles, would be vitiated by the American plan. Officials warn that China will be forced to build far more missiles or develop decoy measures, and say the American plan will set off a global arms race.
American officials respond that China plans to improve its missile forces anyway and that the proposed defenses are not intended to offset Chinese power. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GEORGIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL FOR LIVABLE WORLD AMERICAN SECURITY SHREDDING (57%); AMERICAN SECURITY DISTRIBUTION (57%); COUNCIL FOR A LIVABLE WORLD (56%); COUNCIL FOR A LIVABLE WORLD (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL FOR LIVABLE WORLD COUNCIL FOR A LIVABLE WORLD (56%); COUNCIL FOR A LIVABLE WORLD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GEORGIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); BEIJING, CHINA (58%); 

SUBJECT: MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS MISSILE SYSTEMS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); ARMS RACE (89%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (77%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); LOBBYING (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



721 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1064 words

HEADLINE: President, a Team Player, Goes to Bat Once More for Gore

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
President Clinton turned an hourlong news conference today into an effort to bolster Vice President Al Gore's campaign and to defend him from accusations of campaign finance irregularities. He said Mr. Gore made "a compelling case" that he did nothing wrong and argued that the "so-called scandals" of the last eight years "were bogus."
In a wide-ranging discussion that included gasoline prices, the death penalty, missile defense, Elian Gonzalez, prescription drug coverage and how much brain power it takes to be president, Mr. Clinton invoked Mr. Gore's name more than a dozen times. 
 He dismissed polls showing Mr. Gore running behind Gov. George W. Bush of Texas, noting that this week alone one poll showed a 13-point lead for the presumed Republican candidate while another indicated a virtual tie. The president said that once Americans examine Mr. Gore's record, his economic policy and his understanding of new technology, "it's still more likely than not that he will win."
Mr. Clinton said he did not see a need for Attorney General Janet Reno to appoint a special counsel to investigate Mr. Gore's involvement in campaign fund-raising, including his appearance at a Buddhist temple in California in April 1996. The president said that she had already considered, and rejected, an outside review and that "the best thing to do is for the American people to make their own judgments about it."
But he seized the moment -- as he does increasingly often these days -- to argue that his White House has been repeatedly vindicated of wrongdoing despite a Washington "scandal machine."
"The word 'scandal' has been thrown around here like a clanging teapot for seven years," he said. And he quickly cited a Washington Post column that he said concluded "a whole bunch of this stuff was just garbage, and that we had totally innocent people prosecuted because they wouldn't lie." He cited numerous investigations of members of his cabinet, and of his own financial dealings in Arkansas, but never mentioned his impeachment.
The president also plugged Mr. Gore when asked about the brain power needed to be a good president and gently tweaked Mr. Bush, who has said he plans to surround himself with the best advisers to compensate for areas in which he is not an expert.
"I don't think it's so much a question of intelligence generically," Mr. Clinton said in describing the qualities it takes to be president. "I mean, I think it's more a question of curiosity and willingness to learn what you think is important," a clear reference to suggestions that Mr. Bush often skims the surface rather than delving deeply.
"I guess I think that no president can say, well, it should be enough for the voters if I get the best advisers in my party and they come up with a position and I take it," he added. "So what the voters will have to analyze here is how important is the fact that Al Gore spent 20 years working on arms control issues, for example, and dealing with all these things?"
Mr. Clinton spent most of his time pressing the legislative agenda for his last seven months in office. He urged Congress to take the deal he offered this week: prescription drug coverage for senior citizens, a longtime item on Mr. Clinton's list, in return for the elimination of the "marriage penalty" in the tax system, a longtime Republican desire.
He urged the Senate to approve permanent normal trade relations with China, as the House has already. "I ask Congress, let's not waste these precious weeks," he said. But his advisers acknowledge that Mr. Clinton will be lucky to get one or two of his priorities through an election-year Congress, and say he will focus instead on negotiating an Israeli-Palestinian peace by September, and other foreign policy initiatives.
Asked about capital punishment, Mr. Clinton expressed concern about racial disparities among those facing execution for federal crimes. Seventeen of the 21 federal prisoners facing the death penalty are members of minority groups. Mr. Clinton also said he was concerned that prosecutors in a dozen Southern states had accounted for more than half of the federal cases in which the death penalty had been sought.
Mr. Clinton's comments gave some hope to lawyers for Juan Raul Garza, a migrant farm worker convicted of marijuana smuggling and three drug-related murders. He is scheduled next month to become the first person facing a federal execution in nearly 40 years.
"We're encouraged by the president's comments," said Gregory Wiercioch, a lawyer with the Texas Defender Service who is representing Mr. Garza and preparing to file a request for clemency. "What President Clinton is realizing is that the Justice Department's authorization is like a rigged lottery."
Mr. Clinton's news conference came shortly after the Supreme Court handed down several major rulings, and Mr. Clinton fielded questions on many of them, including the court's refusal to hear a case dealing with Elian Gonzalez -- who left Washington for Cuba only hours after Mr. Clinton spoke -- and its decision backing the Boy Scouts' ability to exclude gay members.
He said he wished the return of Elian to Cuba had "unfolded in a less dramatic, less traumatic way for all concerned." He made a last-minute offer to the departing family, "If he and his father decided they wanted to stay here, it would be fine with me."
Yet Mr. Clinton signaled no major departure from the United States embargo on Cuba, saying it would be up to Fidel Castro to reach out to the United States. He deflected comparisons to his recent decision to lift the embargo of commercial exchanges against North Korea -- despite the fact that North Korea had engaged in actions that closely parallel those he accused Fidel Castro of committing.
While Mr. Clinton said he supported the notion of selling American food and medicine to Havana, the substance of a deal struck this week among House Congressional leaders, he said he was concerned about restrictions in the legislation on travel to the island.
On the Supreme Court's decision to permit the Boy Scouts to bar gays, Mr. Clinton called the Scouts, of which he is honorary president, "a great group." But he said he hoped the decision was "just one step along the way of a movement toward greater inclusion in our society because I think that's the direction we ought to be going in."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton discussing Elian Gonzalez and the United States embargo on Cuba at a news conference yesterday at the White House. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ;BOY SCOUTS; SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: ;BOY SCOUTS; SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (97%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CUBAN-AMERICANS; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; HOMOSEXUALITY; ETHICS ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (79%); IMMIGRATION (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (76%); ETHICS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); LAWYERS (74%); REFUGEES (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); FUNDRAISING (73%); LEGISLATION (68%); VERDICTS (66%); SUPREME COURTS (66%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (56%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (56%); GASOLINE PRICES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN); GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL; SANGER, DAVID E; LACEY, MARC AL GORE (93%); BILL CLINTON (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



722 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve Calls a Time Out on Raising Interest Rates

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
The Federal Reserve voted today to leave interest rates unchanged, giving itself more time to determine whether the series of rate increases it has imposed the last year are slowing the economy sufficiently to avoid an upturn in inflation.
But the central bank warned that it could start raising rates again as soon as its next meeting, on Aug. 22. Analysts said the Fed would probably tighten policy in August unless economic indicators in coming weeks provided assurance that the red-hot pace of economic growth earlier this year had given way to a more sustainable path that reduces the threat of an inflationary spiral in wages and prices. 
 The Federal Reserve's decision had been widely expected by economists and investors, and Wall Street took the news largely in stride. The Dow Jones industrial average climbed more than 100 points but fell back after the Fed announcement to close at 10,527.79, up 23.33, for the day. The Nasdaq composite index rose 81.38, to 3,940.34.
In calling a time out today in its campaign of rate increases -- six over the last year, pushing its benchmark federal funds target rate up 1.75 percentage points, to 6.5 percent -- the Fed acknowledged that there had been some evidence that the economy was cooling off. And the central bank noted that while inflation by some measures had been accelerating, price pressures were being held down by continuing improvements in productivity, a measure of the economy's ability to produce more for less.
But the central bank's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee suggested that it remained unconvinced that the economic slowdown was real. And it stressed its continuing concern that the current low rate of unemployment -- 4.1 percent in May -- could lead wages to rise so fast that companies would be forced to raise their prices.
Signs of moderating growth "are still tentative and preliminary, and the utilization of the pool of available workers remains at an unusually high level," the committee said in a statement released at the conclusion of a two-day meeting.
Under those circumstances, the statement said, "the committee believes the risks continue to be weighted mainly toward conditions that may generate heightened inflation pressures in the foreseeable future."
Analysts said the wording of the statement was intended in part to keep investors off balance and keep stock prices from surging on the assumption that the Fed was finished or nearly finished raising rates.
Economists said there was a good chance that the Fed would push rates up another quarter percentage point in August, but that the decision would be driven by the economic statistics that come out between now and then.
"We're back on data watch," said Ian Morris, an economist at HSBC Securities.
Economists pointed to today's report on orders for durable goods as evidence that some of the weakness exhibited by the economy the last few months might have been temporary. Orders for durable goods in May rose 6 percent, to $218.89 billion, more than reversing a 5.7 percent decline in April, the Commerce Department reported. Analysts had expected an increase of less than 3 percent.
"The big increase in durable goods today is telling you that this slowdown is going to be just moderate, that we're not going to have an extremely sharp slowdown," said Maury N. Harris, an economist at PaineWebber.
Mr. Harris said other important indicators in coming weeks could follow a similar pattern, with chances good that both job creation and average hourly earnings would rebound in June after being depressed in May.
He said he expected the Fed to raise its federal funds target rate on overnight loans between banks a quarter percentage point, to 6.75 percent, in August, and then to push the rate up again to 7 percent by the end of the year.
Robert V. DiClemente, an economist at Salomon Smith Barney, also said he expected the federal funds rate to rise to around 7 percent this year.
"We think that current financial conditions are not going to prove sufficiently restrictive to keep demand moving back into line," Mr. DiClemente said in a report today.
In explaining its decision to leave rates unchanged, the Fed suggested that it remained ambivalent -- or perhaps divided -- over the potential for inflation to take root.
The committee's statement gave equal emphasis to two competing ways of assessing the outlook. One view, often emphasized by Alan Greenspan, the Fed chairman, is built on the idea that an acceleration in productivity growth is likely to continue, holding down costs and tempering any inflation pressures that might result from rising wages.
In this view, the goal of monetary policy is to bring economic growth down to "a pace closer to the rate of growth of the economy's potential to produce," as today's statement put it.
The economy grew at a 5.4 percent annual rate in the first quarter, and most Fed officials put the noninflationary growth rate at 3.5 percent to 4 percent a year.
But in expressing concern that the low unemployment rate could ignite inflation, the statement recognized a position advocated by a number of other Fed officials, including Laurence H. Meyer, a Fed governor. Mr. Meyer believes that with unemployment around 4 percent, even 3.5 percent annual growth might be enough to generate inflation pressures.
He has raised the possibility that the Fed might need to push growth below 3.5 or 4 percent for some period and allow the unemployment rate to rise to 5 percent or higher to squeeze inflation pressures out of the economy.
Mr. Greenspan works to bring consensus to policy making within the Fed, and the lines between the two camps are not firmly drawn. But even if the Fed agrees that tighter monetary policy is beginning to bite, it could still face a debate over how much further it needs to go in slowing the economy.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Traders in the Treasury futures pit at the Chicago Board of Trade placed orders after the Federal Open Market Committee announced yesterday that it would leave the federal funds rate at 6.5 percent. (Associated Press)(pg. C8)
 
Graph tracks Durable Goods Orders since December 1999.
(Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C8)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; DURABLE GOODS (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); CREDIT ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (90%); INFLATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (78%); DURABLE GOODS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



723 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: Credit Card Issuer Will Repay Millions To Some Customers

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
One of the nation's largest credit card companies agreed today to a demand from bank regulators to reimburse its customers at least $300 million for misleading and improperly billing them.
The regulators accused the Providian Financial Corporation, the nation's sixth-largest issuer of credit cards, of deceiving hundreds of thousands of consumers, many of them with credit problems, with phone calls and mass mailings full of confusing sales pitches. As a result, people paid annual fees when they had been told there would be none, received credit cards they did not know they had signed up for and were subjected to higher interest rates than the company had advertised, according to the government, which conducted a yearlong investigation. 
 Providian signed a joint agreement with the federal Comptroller of the Currency, the attorney general of California and the San Francisco district attorney's office. Providian agreed to halt the practices objected to by regulators.
About 3 million of Providian's 13 million customers are likely to receive reimbursement checks later this year, regulators said. In addition to the $300 million in reimbursements, which regulators called a minimum, Providian will pay a $5.5 million fine to the City of San Francisco.
Consumer advocates said the $300 million in restitution was one of the largest penalties they knew of in a case involving consumer deception. It is 10 times the amount Wall Street analysts had initially expected and will wipe out the equivalent of more than one-third of Providian's 1999 profits after taxes.
"Providian has engaged in a pattern of abusing consumers by misleading them," said Daniel P. Stipano, the director of the comptroller's enforcement and compliance division.
As part of the agreement, Providian, whose credit card operation is led by David R. Alvarez, neither acknowledged nor denied breaking the law but did agree to change its practices.
"Frankly, we thought seriously about fighting" the government, Shailesh Mehta, Providian's chief executive, said today in a conference call with reporters. "This was purely a business decision" based on the calculation that litigation would have cost more than the settlement, Mr. Mehta added.
In recent months, the number of consumers complaining to the comptroller's office about Providian's practices has declined significantly, Mr. Mehta said.
The bank, which is based in San Francisco, was the nation's fastest-growing issuer of credit cards over the 12 months ended March 31, increasing the size of its portfolio -- which is chiefly credit card debt -- by 54 percent, according to Friedman Billings Ramsey, an investment banking firm in Arlington, Va.
Providian focuses its marketing on the growing number of Americans who have credit problems and is known for its sophisticated use of databases in singling out potential customers.
The case, which regulators said began because of complaints from Providian customers, also offers the latest evidence of a growing consumer backlash against credit card companies struggling to maintain their profit margins. So many consumers have complained about receiving their bills too close to the payment deadline to avoid a late fee, for example, that the comptroller began an investigation into the practice earlier this year. Bank One's giant First USA credit card unit has received the most complaints.
The agreement comes as bank regulators, state officials and members of Congress are vowing to look more closely at predatory lending, particularly to people with bad credit histories or low incomes.
"This is an historic occasion," said June D. Cravett, the head of the consumer and environmental protection unit of the San Francisco district attorney's office. She said it indicated that federal regulators were now paying more attention to the banks' treatment of their customers.
Most of the current government efforts against this sort of fraud focus on confusing, high-interest home-equity loans that are pitched to people who often have few other lines of credit open to them and can lose their houses if they default. In 1994, Congress passed a law intended to curb deceptive loans by increasing disclosure by lenders, but regulators have since warned that the law has had little effect. The Federal Reserve recently formed a multiagency task force that is studying ways to curb predatory lending.
Consumer advocates said the Providian settlement showed that home-equity loans were not the only worrisome practice in the so-called sub-prime lending market. "People who don't have good credit are preyed upon in all sorts of areas -- when they try to get a credit card, when they try to get a home-equity loan, when they try to get a mortgage on a house," said Frank Torres, the legislative counsel at Consumers Union, an advocacy group that publishes Consumer Reports.
The case also reflects a new level of aggressiveness among bank regulators, they said. The comptroller, part of the Treasury Department, has indicated that it now considers deceptive lending practices to be a potential threat to banks' "safety and soundness," which it is responsible for monitoring. And the government's agreement with Providian is the first time regulators have punished a company by using the Federal Trade Commission Act, Mr. Stipano said. The act gives the government latitude to investigate marketing practices.
In its agreement with Providian, the comptroller described selling pitches that one regulator compared to a Catch-22.
In one pitch, Providian boasted of charging no annual fee but then required customers to pay $156 a year for credit protection, the government said. If, after seeing the charge, they asked not to receive the protection, they were charged an annual fee.
In another, Providian telemarketers, working from scripts, refused to tell people what interest rate they would receive no matter how many times they asked. Instead, the employees would repeat, using slightly varied language, the idea that Providian would significantly beat a consumer's current interest rate. In reality, the difference was usually slight and, because of the complicated rules, often ended up being higher, Mr. Stipano said.
Providian made the confusing sales pitches to people with both poor and normal credit.
To make the payments to customers, Providian said it would use $36 million of cash reserves and take a $163 million charge. Because restitution is tax deductible, it will not show up as a $300 million loss on the company's earnings report. Providian still faces many private lawsuits.
Last week, when Providian announced the likely size of a settlement, its stock fell more than 10 percent. Today, it gained $2, to $85, as investors were cheered by the news that the case is now largely over, said Todd Pitsinger, an analyst at Friedman Billings Ramsey.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PVN (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL CORP; COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: PROVIDIAN FINANCIAL CORP; COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT AND MONEY CARDS; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING; FINES (PENALTIES) CREDIT CARDS (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (91%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); SALES PROSPECTING (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (77%); AFTER TAX PROFIT (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); LITIGATION (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); EXECUTIVES (63%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



724 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: New State Rules Aim to Curb Loan Abuses

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
The New York State Banking Department released new rules yesterday meant to prevent the abuses of high-cost loans that have victimized thousands of homeowners.
Several consumer and housing groups, protesting the regulations as far too weak, briefly disrupted the presentation at the state banking board meeting in Lower Manhattan. 
 The rules, which the board is expected to adopt in the next few days, would make New York the second state to regulate so-called predatory lenders. The first was North Carolina, which enacted a law last year.
New York's superintendent of banking, Elizabeth McCaul, said that while many high-cost lenders help people who have limited credit ratings, "this regulation makes clear that abusive, predatory lending practices will not be tolerated."
Predatory lenders typically use high-pressure tactics to talk homeowners into exorbitant loans that often force them into bankruptcy or foreclosure. The most frequent victims are the elderly, women and residents of minority neighborhoods.
The rules cover the advertising, brokering and issuing of high-cost home loans. The state said they would help ensure that borrowers understood the terms of their loans and could afford to repay them. The rules would curb repeated refinancing that did not help borrowers and the "packing" of loans with excessive points, fees and other charges.
But critics said the rules were a major disappointment, especially since New York is the nation's biggest banking center and has had more predatory loans than any other state. New York's rules fall far short of the North Carolina law, the critics said, and the final version is weaker than the initial draft issued several months ago.
The new rules "would largely let predatory lenders off the hook," said Sarah Ludwig, director of the nonprofit Neighborhood Economic Development Advocacy Project and an organizer of New Yorkers for Responsible Lending. "The proposed regulation," she said, "invites shady lenders and brokers to find ways to get around the law."
Among the many criticisms were the failure to ban prepayment penalties, which tend to lock victims into onerous loans, and a loophole that would permit lenders to ignore "the borrower's apparent lack of capacity to repay the loan." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE BANKING DEPARTMENT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BANKS AND BANKING PREDATORY LENDING (92%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LOAN BROKERS (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); CREDIT REGULATION (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (63%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



725 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Lashes Out At Con Edison

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani attacked Consolidated Edison yesterday for Monday's power breakdowns, accusing the utility of shoddy management and saying he had decided to reinstate an investigatory panel to review the utility's service to consumers.
The city's top lawyer followed suit, saying the city was withdrawing a settlement offer it had made to the utility in a lawsuit over last year's blackout in Washington Heights. 
 Although Monday's power failure was smaller, confined to eight buildings on the Upper East Side, and briefer than others in recent years that crippled large sections of the city, several city officials said yesterday that they were angered by Con Ed's decision to reduce power so early in the summer.
"The troubling question is, if they can't handle an 88-degree day in June, what happens when it gets to 98 in August?" said Michael D. Hess, the corporation counsel.
Both the mayor and Mr. Hess expressed dissatisfaction with the company's explanation that it decided on the reductions because power consumption had nearly reached its capacity, especially since the city had received assurances that it would spend $315 million to upgrade its systems to prevent a recurrence of last year's blackout. That 19-hour power failure prompted the city to sue Con Ed, with the Giuliani administration seeking compensation for police and emergency service expenses and threatening to ask the Public Service Commission to take action against the company.
Mr. Hess said yesterday that the lawsuit had been "close to settlement until this hiccup on Monday."
A spokesman for Con Edison, Joseph Petta, responded to the mayor's complaints yesterday, saying that "no electrical power company in the world can guarantee no outages." But he said a $100 million upgrade of cables and other equipment in New York City since last year's blackout in upper Manhattan "has gone a long way to further improving the most reliable energy distribution system in the country."
Mr. Petta said that electrical consumption by New York City businesses and residents on Monday was at its third-highest level of any day in history, and that electric supplies were growing tighter because "the economy is booming and fuel prices are higher." He said Con Ed thought that "more plants are needed to meet the growing demand."
Con Edison officials have pointed out that just eight buildings and about 76,000 customers were affected for just a few hours on Monday.
At his daily press briefing, Mayor Giuliani rejected assertions by Con Ed executives that heavy use of air-conditioners, combined with the increased demands of computers and other electrical appliances, had pushed the generating capacity of the company's suppliers close to the limit.
"It's no excuse to say people use too much power," the mayor said. He then announced that he would reappoint a City Hall task force, including Mr. Hess and John Dyson, one of the mayor's closest advisers and a former deputy mayor, to examine the utility's performance in delivering electricity to New Yorkers. Last year, the panel was established to investigate Con Ed's management and distribution system, and to demand changes.
"Con Edison should be prepared for people using too much power," the mayor said, adding the the task force would "make recommendations on the demands we now should make" on the utility. Among them, he said, is likely to be a revised system of handling power disruptions like the one on Monday, in which "a lot of people at Con Ed didn't appear to know what they were doing."
In lashing out at the company yesterday, Mr. Giuliani joined other top city officials in viewing with some skepticism Con Ed's suggestion that it faces a severe long-term problem in generating capacity, instead of the more immediate snags caused by failures in its power lines and distribution system. Con Ed, under the mandates of federal deregulation of the electrical utility industry, sold all three of its oil-powered electrical plants in New York City last year.
Peter F. Vallone, the City Council speaker, who was consulted by Mr. Giuliani yesterday, said Con Ed's assertions that its generating capacity was being pushed to the limit "may be a ploy."
Mr. Vallone said Con Ed, working in consort with the utilities that have bought its New York City plants, might be using power disruptions to put pressure on regulators to approve construction of a new electrical power plant in the city.
Mr. Petta replied that Con Ed "can't comment, since we no longer own those plants." The three former Con Ed plants have been bought by KeySpan, Orion Power Holdings and the NRG unit of Northern States Power.
Mr. Giuliani said he had instructed Mr. Hess, Mr. Dyson and others he appointed to his mayoral task force to investigate Con Ed's management policies, and the broader assertions that it had reached the limit of its generating capacity.
"There is a management issue," he said, adding that Con Ed's senior management appeared on Monday not to immediately recognize the severity of the problem on the Upper East Side. He described management questions as "the most important in the short term."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); CON EDISON (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CON EDISON (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WASHINGTON HEIGHTS (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; BLACKOUTS (ELECTRICAL); SUITS AND LITIGATION POWER FAILURES (91%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); CITIES (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); ELECTRICITY GENERATING CAPACITY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (72%); HISTORY (71%); LAWYERS (70%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HESS, MICHAEL D (CORPORATE COUNSEL) RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



726 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 29, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1229 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-17
 
Elian Returns to Cuba After Justices Decline Case
Elian Gonzalez returned to Cuba with his father and other family members aboard a chartered jet, hours after the Supreme Court declined to hear an appeal brought by Miami relatives who wanted an asylum hearing for the boy. A1
 
Sadness and anger pervaded the crowd that gathered outside the house in Little Havana, in Miami, where Elian was taken shortly after being found at sea in an inner tube in November and where he lived during most of the custody battle. A14
 
Russia Unveils Economic Plan
The Kremlin issued its long-awaited plan to overhaul Russia's economy. It would slash subsidies that have held down utility rates, devise a new energy policy and wipe out unpaid wages, tax breaks and other obligations that sap government spending power. The announcement almost overshadowed another major event: a vote in Parliament's upper house against President Vladimir V. Putin's plan to effectively disband it. A6
 
U.S. and Russian Missile Plan
Russia and the United States will hold a joint defense exercise against short- and medium-range missiles, an American official said. A7
 
Delay Urged on Missile Defense
A group of more than 40 China scholars and former diplomats want President Clinton to delay a decision on building a national missile defense, saying it may do more harm than good to American interests. A9
 
Iraqi Storms U.N. Office
An Iraqi man brandishing two machine guns and explosives shot his way into a United Nations office in Baghdad, Iraq, killing 2 people, wounding 7 and taking about 50 hostage. After a siege of nearly three hours, he gave himself up, saying he wanted an end to United Nations sanctions against his country. A3
 
Two Iranian Reformers Jailed
Iranian officials sent a student leader and a human rights lawyer to jail without trial. At the same time, the national police commander held responsible in an attack on student protesters last year was fired. A5
 
Mideast Meeting in Doubt
The Israelis and Palestinians appeared to remain far from meeting the conditions set down by the Clinton administration for an early summit meeting in Washington. A3
 
World Briefing A6
 
NATIONAL A18-28
 
Court Rules Governments Can't Ban Type of Abortion
The Supreme Court, ruling 5 to 4 in a Nebraska case, said the government cannot bar doctors from using a procedure widely known as "partial-birth abortion," because it may be the most medically appropriate way of terminating some pregnancies. A1
 
Boy Scouts Can Bar Gays
The Supreme Court, ruling 5 to 4 in a New Jersey case, said the Boy Scouts may exclude gay members because opposition to homosexuality is part of their "expressive message." A1
 
House Endorses Drug Benefit
The House passed a bill offering prescription benefits to 39 million elderly and disabled people on Medicare, but only after Democrats walked off the floor to express frustration at being unable to get a full debate on a proposal to establish more extensive drug coverage. A1
 
Campaign Finance Legislation
The House overwhelmingly passed bipartisan legislation to require tax-exempt groups that raise and spend money on political advocacy to disclose their activities and donors. A21
 
Defending Gore on Fund-Raising
President Clinton, in a wide-ranging news conference, defended Vice President Al Gore against accusations of campaign finance irregularities, saying that Mr. Gore had made "a compelling case" that he did nothing wrong. A21
 
No Pass for Reagan Attacker
A Washington psychiatric hospital withdrew its recommendation that a court let John W. Hinckley Jr. leave the hospital for unsupervised weekly visits with his parents. A18
 
California Official Steps Down
Chuck Quackenbush resigned as insurance commissioner rather than risk impeachment over accusations that he diverted millions in earthquake insurance settlements. A18
 
EDUCATION
 
Parochial School Aid Allowed
The Supreme Court ruled, 6 to 3, that a federal program that puts computers and other "instructional equipment" in parochial school classrooms does not violate the separation between church and state. A27
 
NEW YORK/REGION B1-10
 
Effort on Police Corruption Is Inefficient, Panel Says
A commission appointed by Mayor Giuliani to monitor the Police Department's anti-corruption efforts has found the internal system for disciplining officers staffed with inexperienced lawyers and mired in delays, according to a draft report. A1
 
Fallout From Power Failure
Mayor Giuliani, responding to an East Side power failure on Monday, accused Con Edison of shoddy management and said he was reinstating an investigatory panel to review the utility's service to consumers. The city's top lawyer withdrew a settlement offer arising from last year's Washington Heights blackout. B1
 
Transforming Yellow Cab Fleet
The Taxi and Limousine Commission will hold a hearing on a proposal to require new yellow cabs bought after July 1, 2001, to be wheelchair accessible, meaning they would mostly be tall sport-utility vehicles. B1
 
SCIENCE/HEALTH 
 
Deadly Toll of Diseases
Infectious diseases worldwide claim far more lives than natural disasters, the Red Cross reported. A17
 
CIRCUITS G1-16
 
SPORTS D1-8
 
Nets Take Cincinnati Star
The Nets, who had the first pick in the N.B.A. draft, used it to choose Kenyon Martin, a 6-foot-9 center-forward. The L.S.U. forward Stromile Swift went second, chosen by the Vancouver Grizzlies. D1
 
Sisters Win at Wimbledon
Serena Williams beat Yvette Basting, 6-1, 6-0, and Venus Williams defeated Ai Sugiyama, 6-1, 6-4. The top-seeded Pete Sampras overcame Karol Kucera, 7-6 (9), 6-3, 3-6, 6-4. D4
 
OBITUARIES A29
 
Larry Kelley
The Yale end who won the Heisman Trophy in 1936, which he sold at auction six months ago for $328,100, was 85. He died of an apparently self-inflicted gunshot wound. A29
 
BUSINESS DAY C1-24
 
Credit Card Settlement
Providian Financial, a credit card issuer, agreed to a demand from bank regulators to reimburse customers at least $300 million for misleading and improperly billing them. A1
 
No Change in Interest Rates
The Fed left interest rates unchanged, but warned that it could raise them again as soon as its next meeting, on Aug. 22, if it believed the economy was not slowing enough to avoid an upturn in inflation. C1
 
Major stock indexes were higher. C11
 
Oracle Defends Its Spying
Lawrence J. Ellison, the chairman and founder of Oracle, defended his company's spying operation against Microsoft as a "civic duty" similar to investigative reporting. C1
 
Business Digest C1
 
HOUSE & HOME F1-20
 
ARTS E1-12
 
Lackluster Summer Box Office
The summer movie season, which got off to a big start with "Mission: Impossible 2," is no match for last year's box office performance. E1
 
EDITORIAL A30-31
 
Editorials: The court exits, in controversy; an end to secret campaign funds; Elian goes home.
Columns: Bob Herbert.
 
Bridge E10
TV Listings E12
Crossword E9
Weather B9
Public Lives B2
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CUBA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); CUBA (92%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (74%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); GAYS & LESBIANS (85%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (75%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (74%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (69%); UTILITY RATES (69%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); POLICE FORCES (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (67%); ABORTION (64%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (75%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2000



727 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 5; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: BONDS;
Treasuries Rise in a Sigh of Relief, for Now, on Interest Rates

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond yields fell sharply yesterday amid weakness in stocks and investor relief that the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged on Wednesday.
In the currency market, the dollar was off against the euro and the yen, making dollar-denominated investments like Treasury securities more attractive to foreign investors because of exchange-rate advantages. 
 The price of the 10-year Treasury note, which many market participants are using as the benchmark, rose 1 6/32, to 103 14/32. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 6.02 percent from 6.10 percent on Wednesday. The price of the 30-year bond rose 1 5/32, to 105 10/32. Its yield dropped to 5.87 percent from 5.95 percent.
Robert Pugliese, director of the fixed-income department at the J. W. Genesis Financial Corporation, said the moves were exaggerated by low liquidity and volume in the market.
He says that Treasury prices are too lofty, with the price of a 10-year note having run up too fast, and that more interest rate increases by the Fed are in the offing. "I don't see prices remaining at these high levels," he said. "Prices in bonds and equities will decline. The economic slowdown is a head fake, so there are more tightenings in the wings."
Donald J. Fine, chief market analyst at Chase Asset Management, said the Federal Open Market Committee, at its meeting on Wednesday, refrained from tightening again "as more moderate economic and inflation data suggested that the previous tightenings instituted over the past year may finally be starting to lower the trend rate of economic growth to a more sustainable level, while at the same time keeping a lid on rising price pressures."
"But the issues of sustainability and extent of any slowdown are open questions at this juncture," he added, "and further Fed tightening at the August F.O.M.C. meeting seems probable in light of the economy's still-buoyant forward momentum, tight labor markets and continued upcreep in inflation."
The government securities market was bolstered by the Treasury's buyback program, some end-of-the-quarter buying and softer new-home sales data that ran counter to sales figures released earlier this week.
The release yesterday of updated figures for first-quarter gross domestic product caused few surprises. Some bond market participants think coming figures on consumer prices could prove unnerving, particularly if components of the price index outside of energy go up more than expected.
Mr. Fine is among those paying closer heed to other coming reports.
"The bond market's next major hurdle," Mr. Fine said, "will be the June labor market report, which should correct any misleading perceptions resulting from last month's presumably questionable information, which showed extraordinary weakness in the midst of a very tight labor market."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields"
Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (69%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO ADVISORS LLC (69%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES BONDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CURRENCIES (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INFLATION (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EURO (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TRENDS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (74%); REAL ESTATE (73%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DONALD J FINE (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



728 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: Fed Vote in May to Raise Rates Was Unanimous, Minutes Show

BYLINE: Bridge News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
Federal Reserve policy makers voted unanimously to raise interest rates by half a percentage point in May and to indicate that they suspected the risks to the economy were weighted mainly toward escalating inflation pressures, according to minutes of their May 16 meeting released today.
The minutes of the Open Market Committee showed that Fed officials felt that a "more forceful" tightening was desirable "in light of the extraordinary and persisting strength of overall demand," and "indications of growing pressures in already tight markets for labor and other resources." 
 The minutes suggested that the financial markets' expectations of an aggressive rate tightening were an influence on the May 16 decision. "Financial markets seem to have recognized the need for real interest rates to rise further under these circumstances," the minutes said.
The greater risk to the expansion at that point, the minutes said, was for monetary policy to be "too sluggish in adjusting," allowing inflationary "disturbances and dislocations to build."
The Fed minutes said a half-point increase would help avert a rise in inflation expectations, which in the view of some members were worsening.
While the Fed on May 16 agreed that the risks were biased toward higher inflation, a number of the members said they "did not want to prejudge the potential extent or pace of future policy tightening," according to the minutes.
These members said the committee should continue to assess the need for rate increases in light of conditions meeting by meeting.
Discussing the economic situation, the committee cited evidence that underlying inflation was beginning to pick up, the minutes said. Even so, the minutes said, unit costs were "still remarkably subdued and members saw no developments at this stage that might augur a sharp near-term deterioration in price inflation."
The Federal Open Market Committee noted more reports that rising labor costs could no longer be fully offset by productivity improvements and that more companies seemed to be trying to raise prices to help profits.
"However, their ability to set higher prices, or at least to raise them significantly, continued to be severely constrained by the persistence of strong competition across much of the economy," the minutes stated.
The minutes also reported that some committee members felt that less rapid consumer spending at that time might have been linked to lower stock prices. If stock prices did not rise much further, there would be a "neutral or negative" impact on the economy once the effects of the earlier stock prices wore off, but that would "take some time," the minutes said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INFLATION (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); PRODUCTIVITY (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



729 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Border Dispute Will Get a Hearing

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
In a final day of housekeeping after concluding its term, the Supreme Court agreed today to settle a longstanding and increasingly bitter boundary dispute between New Hampshire and Maine about which state includes the Portsmouth Naval Shipyard.
The shipyard, a federal installation, sits on islands in the Piscataqua River, which flows into Portsmouth Harbor and forms the state boundary between Portsmouth, N.H., and Kittery, Me. According to Maine, the state boundary is in the middle of the channel, placing the shipyard on the Maine side. Consequently, Maine has been imposing its income tax on the people who work at the shipyard. 
 New Hampshire, asserting a historical claim to all the river up to the shoreline on the Maine side, says the shipyard is in New Hampshire, which has no income tax.
The United States owns the property in dispute, having begun in 1800 to acquire the five islands that make up the shipyard. For years, however, the Navy regarded the island as within New Hampshire's political jurisdiction. More recently, it has moved to an official position of neutrality, though the federal government has been withholding Maine income tax from the workers' paychecks.
In March, New Hampshire filed its case against Maine directly in the Supreme Court, invoking the court's constitutional "original" jurisdiction to hear suits between states. In agreeing today to take jurisdiction of the case, the justices instructed the federal government to file a brief and make its views known.
The case, New Hampshire v. Maine, No. 130 Original, is reminiscent of the "original" case the court heard two years ago between New York and New Jersey about which could claim Ellis Island. New Jersey emerged the winner.
The competing claims of New Hampshire and Maine date to the colonial period. New Hampshire says it is significant that the Port of Piscataqua, now Portsmouth Harbor, was excluded from the Massachusetts Bay colony in 1691. What is now Maine was originally part of Massachusetts.
For its part, Maine cites a decree signed in 1740 by King George II, setting the boundary as a line that "shall pass up thro' the mouth of Piscataqua Harbour and up the middle of the river."
In its brief asking the court to hear its case, New Hampshire said that the shipyard "has always been culturally, economically and politically connected to New Hampshire." The state "is not able to maintain its historic connections to the shipyard without judicial assistance," New Hampshire said.
The justices are likely to appoint a special master to hear evidence in the case and make a recommendation.
As the court began its summer recess, it took these other actions today.
 
Drug Sentencing
The court vacated a Denver man's 30-year sentence for distributing cocaine and instructed the federal appeals court in Denver to reconsider the sentence in light of the Supreme Court ruling this week that the sentencing provision of New Jersey's hate-crime law was unconstitutional. The court's action today in Jones v. United States, No. 99-8176, could portend a major upheaval in federal drug sentencing.
In its ruling on Monday in the New Jersey case, Apprendi v. New Jersey, the court held that any fact that increases the penalty for a crime beyond the statutory maximum had to be found by the jury beyond a reasonable doubt. The New Jersey law was unconstitutional because the judge, not the jury, determined after the defendant's conviction whether the crime had been motivated by bias, a finding that under the hate-crime law then resulted in an increased sentence.
The drug sentence the court vacated today in light of that ruling was typical of the way drug sentencing works in the federal system. Carless Jones was indicted on and convicted by a jury of two counts of distributing cocaine, a crime that carries a statutory penalty of 20 years.
The indictment did not specify a particular amount of cocaine, and the jury made no finding on that question. The presentence report informed the judge that the quantity of the drug, 165.5 grams, was enough for a life sentence. Over the defendant's objection, the judge imposed a sentence of 30 years on each count, to run concurrently. The United States Court of Appeals for the 10th Circuit upheld the sentence, ruling that the jury had found all the necessary elements of the offense, and that the judge could make the findings necessary to determine the sentence.
 
Abortion
Following its invalidation on Wednesday of a Nebraska abortion law, the court vacated rulings by the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, in Chicago, that upheld similar laws in Illinois (Hope Clinic v. Ryan, No. 99-1152) and Wisconsin (Planned Parenthood v. Doyle, No. 99-1156). The court also turned down an appeal by Iowa from a ruling by the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, which struck down that state's so-called partial-birth abortion law last year at the same time it invalidated the Nebraska law. (Miller v. Planned Parenthood, No. 99-1112). 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: MAINE, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) US NAVY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) US NAVY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE; MAINE; UNITED STATES (99%); MAINE, USA (99%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: SHIPBUILDING, CONVERSION AND REPAIR; PORTSMOUTH NAVAL SHIPYARD; SUITS AND LITIGATION LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); NAVAL CONSTRUCTION & RETROFIT (90%); JURISDICTION (90%); SHIPBUILDING (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); NAVIES (90%); SENTENCING (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); APPEALS COURTS (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (62%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (60%); COCAINE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



730 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 595 words

HEADLINE: Let's Take a Flier: The Return of Mega-Leverage to Stocks

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
BACK in the good old days, before there was a Securities and Exchange Commission and before the 1929 crash and the Depression that followed had given speculation a bad name, a plunger didn't need to actually buy shares to get all the excitement of the stock market.
He or she could go to bucket shops, which offered the ability to bet while putting up hardly any money. Unlike the real brokerage houses, which wanted a buyer to pay 10 percent or 20 percent of the stock's price to buy it, the bucket shops would let you "buy" a $100 share for a dollar. 
 A quarter of that dollar was a commission, and the rest was the margin. So if the stock fell 75 cents, your margin was wiped out and the dollar was gone. But if the stock went up and you got out, you could make money. Few did.
"The business was tremendously profitable," wrote Edwin Lefevre in his 1923 classic, "Reminiscences of a Stock Operator," a fictionalized memoir of the life of the speculator Jesse Livermore, who got his start in bucket shops. "When it was conducted legitimately -- I mean straight, as far as the bucket shop went -- the fluctuations took care of the shoestrings. It doesn't take much of a reaction to wipe out a margin of only three-quarters of a point."
Bucket shops eventually gained a bad reputation. But they were widely viewed as legitimate in the 1920's, even though speculators never really purchased stock.
Now the basic idea is back, albeit under a fancier name. The futures markets want to trade "single-stock futures," which in economic terms are virtually identical to stocks. This week the House and Senate Agriculture Committees unanimously approved bills to allow such trading even though many regulatory issues remain unsettled.
Once they become legal, you will be able to buy single-stock futures by putting up pennies on the dollar, in sharp contrast to the stock market, where you have to put up half the purchase price. The potential appeal is obvious.
Not unlike the old bucket shops, futures markets have intraday margin calls. If your stock future declines, you must put up more cash immediately or be wiped out.
Futures in commodities like wheat make sense because they allow for trading and price discovery without the need to ship millions of bushels of wheat. The advent of stock-index futures provided a way to hedge risk on broad baskets of stocks. Single-stock futures offer little more than a way to gamble on the cheap.
The futures markets talk of single-stock futures as providing "additional risk management tools," as Scott Gordon, chairman of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, put it in an interview. They say that you can already duplicate a single-stock future with a complicated trade in the options market, so why worry?
The idea that stocks are inherently risky, and that the government should keep people from speculating with excessive leverage, seemed obvious in the 1930's. Then people thought the 1929 crash had been worsened because over-leveraged investors were forced to sell. Seven decades later, such things are forgotten, and free-market advocates claim that if we don't allow such blatant gambling on stocks, the action will simply go to some overseas market.
It is probably inevitable that single-stock futures will begin trading. But legislators who are voting in favor of them may regret that decision if, before they choose to retire, the public once again discovers that the stock market really is risky, and that very high leverage can increase the risks for both the speculators and the entire system.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jesse Livermore (Bachrach)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (50%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (53%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (50%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; GREAT DEPRESSION (1930'S); MARGIN TRADING BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); FUTURES (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (78%); GRAIN MARKETS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BONDS (71%); LEGISLATION (67%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (67%); INTERVIEWS (61%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD; LIVERMORE, JESSE

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



731 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Revised Quarterly G.D.P. Stirs New Concern on Rates

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The economy raced ahead more quickly than previously thought in the first quarter, according to revised government figures released today, raising the prospect of more interest-rate increases this year.
Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of total economic activity, expanded at an annual rate of 5.5 percent in the first quarter instead of the 5.4 percent that was estimated a month ago, the Commerce Department said. 
 That was down from a 7.3 percent growth rate in the final quarter of last year but well above levels that Federal Reserve policy makers consider best for safely sustaining growth without risk of igniting inflation.
First-quarter G.D.P. was fueled by the strongest consumer spending in 17 years, and prices climbed at the fastest pace in five and a half years -- developments that are both likely to heighten Fed concern that it might be difficult to slow demand enough to curb inflation.
The Fed left the rate on overnight loans among banks unchanged at 6.5 percent on Wednesday after raising it six times since last June. The policy makers warned, however, that they thought inflation risks were high.
That left the central bank poised to increase rates again as early as its next meeting, on Aug. 22, unless convincing signs of slowing appear.
The Fed said it saw hints that demand-fueled growth might be easing but called them "tentative and preliminary." Another hint came in a separate report today that said that sales of single-family homes fell slightly in May, by 0.2 percent, to a seasonally adjusted 875,000 a year.
The housing industry is especially sensitive to rising interest rates because both builders and buyers rely on borrowed money. And any slowing in housing quickly translates into reduced spending on furniture, appliances and other household items.
The economy completed a ninth full year of steady expansion in the first quarter. The last recession ended in March 1991, and the United States is in a period of record unbroken growth that the Fed is seeking to sustain by easing the advance of G.D.P. to a rate closer to 3.5 percent or 4 percent a year.
Fed policy makers said on Wednesday that they were worried about tight labor markets -- with unemployment at its lowest level in three decades, employers have difficulty finding people to hire.
Today, the Labor Department said initial claims for jobless benefits edged up 2,000 last week, to 306,000, mainly because of some layoffs in the auto industry, where sales have been leveling off.
The pattern for the economy over the last two years has been for some slowing to occur in the second quarter, and that is expected again this year. But in 1998 and 1999, G.D.P. accelerated in the second half.
There is abundant spending power in the economy, stemming from ample jobs and a strong stock market, but analysts and Fed policy makers hope that the lingering drag of the six increases in interest rates will be a restraint.
Consumer spending, the chief fuel for growth in the economy, increased at an annual rate of 7.7 percent in the first quarter, up from 7.5 percent estimated last month, for the strongest quarterly advance since an 8.6 percent surge in the second quarter of 1983.
Over all, most changes from last month's G.D.P. estimates were relatively minor, including a modestly better trade performance from stronger exports and slightly less inventory-building in the face of strong demand.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Real Economic Growth"
Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonalty and inflation.
 
(Source: Commerce Department)
 
"New-Home Sales"
New private homes sold during month, seasonally adjusted annual rate in thousands.
 
(Source: Commerce Department)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); HOUSING; SALES; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATISTICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (86%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (84%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (77%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); LAYOFFS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



732 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 18; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 396 words

HEADLINE: William Blair, 82, Co-Founder of Country Journal

BYLINE: By LAURA M. HOLSON 

 BODY:
William S. Blair, a former publisher of Harper's magazine and co-founder of Country Journal, died on June 21 at a retirement home in Peterborough, N.H. He was 82.
It was at Harper's, in 1971, that Mr. Blair clashed with the younger editor in chief, Willie Morris, over declining circulation and huge financial losses at the magazine. Mr. Morris was a magnet for writing talent, revered by writers like Norman Mailer and William Styron. When Mr. Morris resigned from the magazine that year, six editors quit in stormy protest. 
 Mr. Blair became the publisher at Harper's in 1968. He was also president, and left soon after the departure of Mr. Morris. Before that, he was president and chief executive of Harper-Atlantic Sales, a company he joined in 1957. It was then a wholly owned subsidiary of Harper & Row and the Atlantic Monthly Company. Before that, he was a research director at Ogilvy, Benson & Mather.
After the trouble at Harper's, Mr. Blair moved to Guilford, Vt., where he and his wife, Mary, had bought a 106-acre farm in 1964. (It grew to more than 200 acres.) There, Mrs. Blair said, he grew 40 acres of daffodils, tulips and irises, reminiscent of the fields of flowers he used to wander through as a boy in Scotland. Local farmers grew corn and raised cattle on the property, and Mr. Blair spent afternoons fishing for trout.
"It was much more his speed," said Lewis H. Lapham, the current editor of Harper's, who knew Mr. Blair. "It was tweed coats. And people talked in civil tones."
It was there, too, in 1974, that he started Country Journal with a friend and colleague, Richard M. Ketchum. The magazine was written for people who had grown tired of hectic city and suburban life and took refuge in rural living, not unlike Mr. Blair. "The magazine was an extension of his own life," Mrs. Blair said. It was sold a decade later.
Mr. Blair was born in Glasgow in 1917, the son of a minister, and attended Oxford University in the late 1930's, earning a degree in economics, Mrs. Blair said. He moved to the United States in 1940, where he attended graduate school at Princeton and, during World War II, joined the Canadian Army.
In addition to his wife of 55 years, Mr. Blair is survived by two daughters, Sheila, of Richmond, N.H., and Fiona, of Brattleboro, Vt.; a son, Colin, of Arlington, Mass.; and two grandchildren.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); 

CITY: GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (54%); 

COMPANY: HARPER'S MAGAZINE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SCOTLAND (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); VERMONT, USA (79%); GLASGOW, SCOTLAND (54%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS (OBITUARIES); BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (98%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (66%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); WORLD WAR II (64%); ARMIES (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (60%); 

PERSON: BLAIR, WILLIAM S; HOLSON, LAURA M WILLIE MORRIS (92%); WILLIAM CLARK STYRON JR (57%); NORMAN KINGSLEY MAILER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



733 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Is Expected to Ease Demands on Debtor Nations

BYLINE: By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The International Monetary Fund, which has ordered developing nations to enact wrenching reforms as the price for emergency aid in recent years, is likely to curtail the demands it makes of clients who borrow money in the future, a senior fund official said today.
Streamlining the conditions the I.M.F. imposes on borrowers is one of the changes Horst Kohler, the fund's new managing director, is weighing as a panel he commissioned to study the role of the agency completes a draft report. Some government officials, academic experts, and private charity groups criticized the fund for requiring that Thailand, South Korea and Indonesia overhaul their economies during the Asian financial crisis in 1997 and 1998. 
 The I.M.F.'s demands for broad changes were captured in a widely reprinted 1997 photograph of Michel Camdessus, the fund's recently retired managing director, peering over the shoulder of former President Suharto of Indonesia as Mr. Suharto signed a lengthy letter of intent to receive emergency aid. The fund required Indonesia to overhaul its transportation and energy sectors and end price subsidies on some commodities, changes that fund officials now say might have been too much for Indonesia to swallow.
Mr. Kohler, who visited Indonesia during a tour of Asia earlier this month, has said that he wants the fund to focus on what he calls its "core competencies."
The senior official said today that the fund's main goal during a crisis should be to restore investor confidence quickly by helping troubled nations manage their finances and currencies. Dictating more sweeping economic changes as the price for assistance potentially works against that goal, the official said.
"Some people say that the fund has acted like a Trojan horse to impose the economic system of the West," the senior official said. "There may be more of a possibility for countries to find their own path."
Mr. Kohler, a German who took over as I.M.F. managing director in May, served previously as head of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development and, before that, as a senior economic aide to Helmut Kohl when he was the German chancellor. He has said that one of his top priorities is to sort through several conflicting proposals for overhauling the I.M.F., including a plan put forward by Treasury Secretary Lawrence H. Summers and another by a Congressional commission.
Mr. Summers suggested that the I.M.F. should limit its long-term lending programs and discourage repeat borrowing by developing nations, the better to preserve its capital to fight financial crises. The Congressional commission advocated a much more radical overhaul, which was dismissed by both the fund and the Clinton administration.
A senior Clinton administration official said today that he believed the I.M.F. overhaul process was headed in the right direction.
The Clinton administration strongly supported the fund's role during the Asian crisis, though Mr. Summers has subsequently said that some of the fund's initial demands on crisis-stricken nations were too severe. Administration officials today declined to comment on the fund's plan to streamline the requirements it imposes on developing nations during times of crisis.
The I.M.F. board plans a retreat in mid-July to discuss changes, the senior I.M.F. official said. The fund has also arranged a retreat with the World Bank, its sister lending agency, where officials will try to sort out things the two bodies should do together and others that they should do separately.
Many broad economic changes that the fund has required its client nations to carry out in recent years have in fact been designed by the World Bank, I.M.F. officials said. Fund officials now say they feel their lending programs should not be used as leverage to advance sometimes hotly disputed World Bank ideas, especially those involving the sale of state-owned companies.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Horst Kohler, the managing director of the I.M.F., is sorting through proposed changes. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND LAWRENCE H STEIN (51%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (97%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); ASIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; CREDIT; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBTOR NATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); CHARITIES (73%); 

PERSON: KOHLER, HORST; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KAHN, JOSEPH HORST KOHLER (90%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



734 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES

BYLINE: By JAMES BARRON 

 BODY:

Young Musicians In Museum Battle
First the singer SHERYL CROW, now 70 journeyman musicians and Juilliard students: the union representing striking workers at the Museum of Modern Art claimed credit yesterday for forcing the cancellation of the first week of the museum's Summergarden concerts.
The performances tonight and tomorrow would have featured musicians who graduated from the Juilliard School of Music this month or are still enrolled there, along with more experienced performers who belong to Local 802 of the American Federation of Musicians. Over the eight-week series, 70 musicians were expected to play -- many in small ensembles, some in a 28-piece orchestra. 
 But Local 802 sent letters urging the students not to appear. "Crossing a picket line is not a great way to start your career," the letter said. "Even though you may not be a union member yet, your future is with the union."
ROBERT BATTERMAN, the museum's labor lawyer, took issue with Local 802's letter-writing. "If it weren't for the fact that we do not wish to embroil students from Juilliard in our problems, we would be seeking legal redress" against the musicians' union and the museum union under federal labor law, he said.
The strike by Local 2110 of the United Automobile Workers, which represents the museum's assistant curators, bookshop workers and other administrative workers, began on April 29. Museum officials postponed a May fund-raiser at which Ms. Crow was to perform, saying they did not want her or ticket holders to have to cross a picket line. The two sides remain divided on everything from wages to job security.
"Our supporters from all corners of the artistic community have been crucial in the course of this strike," MAIDA ROSENSTEIN, the president of Local 2110, said in a statement.
 
Father of the Bride
And of a Cartoon
Just in time for the movie "The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle," TIFFANY WARD was remembering what it was like to grow up amid the adventures of a certain squirrel, a certain moose and a certain father. That would be the animation pioneer JAY WARD, who created the squirrel and moose.
"I was a child when Rocky and Bullwinkle went on the air, and I was dazzled," Ms. Ward said. "It was on television -- there was a premiere."
But there were times when life with father -- her father, anyway -- was too much. Before her wedding, in 1969, for example. "He said I was much too conservative; I wasn't any fun," she recalled. "He said he would wash his hands of the wedding when I turned down his idea of having a popcorn vendor and monkey grinder inside the church. I was a young bride who kind of wanted this not to be a circus." Still, her father hired a skywriter to spell out a message of congratulations.
"When we got to the reception, the receiving line? Next to me, instead of my live father, was a dummy father. My real father and the comedy writers had done an hour of one-liners. Everybody kept going through to hear the dummy. The piece de resistance, which luckily didn't work out, was he had arranged for the Goodyear blimp to land on the golf course and take us away. It was foggy. They couldn't get clearance to take off."
 
Indigenous Sport
Gets Hall of Fame
Cooperstown, N.Y., has the Baseball Hall of Fame, and Cleveland has the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. ROBERT R. MacDONALD says Manhattan is about to become home to the stickball hall of fame.
Mr. MacDonald is the director of the Museum of the City of New York, where the new hall of fame will have its headquarters. "This is New York's indigenous sport," he said, "and its importance was, there were no economic barriers to play it. All it took to play it was the end of a broomstick and the inside of a tennis ball."
So how were the first 14 stickball hall of famers chosen? "Since there were no statistics, it was basically bragging rights," said CARLOS DIAZ, the president of the World Series of Stickball, which begins tomorrow. JAMES BARRON
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: TIFFANY WARD

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ;ADVENTURES OF ROCKY AND BULLWINKLE, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS; MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK AMERICAN FEDERATION INSURANCE CO (58%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MUSEUM OF MODERN ART (NYC); UNITED AUTOMOBILE WORKERS; AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS; MUSEUM OF THE CITY OF NEW YORK AMERICAN FEDERATION OF MUSICIANS OF THE UNITED STATES & CANADA (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MUSIC; LABOR; STRIKES; SUMMERGARDEN (CONCERT SERIES); MOTION PICTURES; STICKBALL; ANIMATED FILMS SINGERS & MUSICIANS (96%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); MUSIC (92%); STRIKES (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); FILM (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (74%); ANIMATION (68%); ANIMATED FILMS (67%); CONSERVATISM (60%); BOOKSTORES (50%); 

PERSON: CROW, SHERYL; WARD, TIFFANY; WARD, JAY; MACDONALD, ROBERT R; BARRON, JAMES SHERYL CROW (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



735 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: First Asian-American Picked for Cabinet

BYLINE: By MARC LACEY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
President Clinton nominated a former representative, Norman Y. Mineta, today as secretary of commerce for the final six months of his presidency, laying the groundwork for Mr. Mineta to become the first Asian-American to hold a Cabinet post.
Mr. Mineta, a Democrat, retired from the House in 1995 after 21 years representing the area around San Jose, Calif. He had been chairman of the Public Works and Transportation Committee and resigned in 1995 to become a senior vice president at Lockheed Martin. 
 If confirmed by the Senate, Mr. Mineta would replace William M. Daley, who will formally step down on July 15 to become campaign chairman for Vice President Al Gore's presidential bid. He would be Mr. Clinton's fourth commerce secretary, following Mickey Kantor and the late Ron Brown, as well as Mr. Daley.
Mr. Mineta is 68. During World War II, when he was 10, his family was loaded onto a train and taken to an internment camp in Wyoming for Americans of Japanese descent. Years later, as a lawmaker, Mr. Mineta helped pass legislation granting $20,000 in compensation to every Japanese-American who had been interned.
"Norm Mineta's family story tells a lot about the promise of the American dream and the power of one person's devotion to opportunity and to justice," Mr. Clinton said in announcing the selection this morning in the Oval Office. Along with Mr. Mineta, the president was joined by Mr. Daley and Robert L. Mallett, the deputy commerce secretary, who had been a finalist for the top job.
The nomination brought immediate praise from Asian-American organizations. One side benefit of the selection, in the view of administration officials, is that it may help blunt criticism from Asian-Americans that followed the firing of Wen Ho Lee, the government scientist accused of mishandling secrets at the Los Alamos National Laboratory. Some Asian-Americans have also expressed unhappiness over the scrutiny people of Asian descent have faced during the investigations of campaign fund-raising abuses in 1996.
"I think it will go a long way toward bridging the divide," Mr. Mineta said in an interview today.
Mr. Mineta acknowledged that, even with a quick confirmation, his time in Mr. Clinton's Cabinet would be short. But he said that he was not taking the job as a caretaker and that he believed the Commerce Department would remain active until the very end of the president's term.
"Some might say that the months remaining in this administration is not a lot of time to make a difference in the life of our nation," Mr. Mineta said. "But I disagree. Six months is a virtual eternity in the new economy."
Mr. Mineta's decision to leave the House to go into private business with a year to go in his term, and just 10 months after Republicans gained control of Congress, rankled some of his Democratic colleagues at the time. A Republican, Representative Tom Campbell, won Mr. Mineta's seat in a special election.
Key Republican senators and supporters predicted a quick confirmation.
"This is a guy who will do very well in the sprint to the end," said Tom Donahue, president of the United States Chamber of Commerce. "He knows Congress well, and they know him."
Some union leaders also praised Mr. Mineta, saying their main concern was his support for the Clinton administration's free-trade agenda.
Not everybody, however, was enthusiastic.
"If his Congressional voting record is any measure, he's clearly out of touch with small business," said Nelson Litterst, a spokesman for the National Federation for Independent Business.
Despite a considerable salary increase when he went into the private sector, Mr. Mineta had clearly not turned his back entirely on politics. He served as an informal adviser to Mr. Gore's presidential effort and had recently considered a run for his old seat in Congress.
This was the second time Mr. Mineta had been offered a Cabinet post, he said. In 1992, President-elect Clinton considered Mr. Mineta for transportation secretary, and Mr. Mineta said today that he had been offered the job but turned it down. He was about to become a committee chairman, and thought he could assist his party more in that capacity, he said.
Nearly eight years later, when another Cabinet offer came, Mr. Mineta jumped at the chance.
John D. Podesta, the president's chief of staff, called Mr. Mineta last Friday to gauge his availability.
"Are you interested?" Mr. Podesta asked.
Mr. Mineta said he responded without hesitation: "Do you want me to crawl through the telephone line to your office right now?"
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (73%); DISMISSALS (69%); FUNDRAISING (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%); NEW ECONOMY (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (57%); WORLD WAR II (53%); 

PERSON: LACEY, MARC; MINETA, NORMAN Y; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES); DALEY, WILLIAM M (SEC) BILL CLINTON (90%); AL GORE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



736 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: After Boy's Return, Castro Tries to Keep Momentum

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

DATELINE: HAVANA, June 29

 BODY:
"At Last in the Fatherland!" declared the front-page headline in the official newspaper, Granma, above pictures of Elian Gonzalez stepping off the plane and being swept up in a relative's arms, an emotional end to the seven-month custody battle that captivated Cuba.
Despite the triumphal headline, the newspaper quickly reminded readers that the child's return was just the beginning of renewed efforts by Cuban officials who want to see an end to an American trade embargo. They contend that the embargo and other American policies weaken their economy and encourage people, like Elian's mother, to risk their lives at sea while seeking political asylum. 
 For those reasons, the government plans to continue the public rallies and televised discussions that provided a political play-by-play during the Elian custody battle.
Foreign officials based here see the continuing campaign as an attempt to tap into the Cuban public's overwhelming support for Elian's return in the hope of rekindling a revolutionary ardor that had cooled in recent years. They said the battle over Elian was the perfect opportunity for President Fidel Castro to restore his appeal.
"He got himself front and center before the country on a daily basis," said one foreign official. "He re-established himself in his image as the sole leader in Cuba who still has the oomph and fire to carry on the revolution. He got an issue he could mobilize the youth, who are his audience and a group that he had not had effective outreach to before."
It is not clear whether Mr. Castro will be able to sustain his appeal. Some people said they had tired of the government-sponsored rallies for Elian and the televised talks about the ills of American society. Many said they simply wanted the boy home with his family.
"Politics is politics," said Maria Gonzalez, who was shopping at a Havana market. "Human feelings should not be mixed up with that."
Yet today's newspapers were filled not only with praise for Elian and his father, Juan Miguel Gonzalez, but also for the youths who attended the countless public rallies organized by the government. While insisting the government would not trot out the child as a symbol, the official newspaper made clear Elian's importance to a battle that it said must continue "immediately and without a truce."
"Ahead of us is the challenge that no new Elians continue to appear," one article said.
Already, the huge billboards with Elian's face have been replaced by others that call for the United States to end its Cuban Adjustment Act, which grants political asylum to Cubans who reach American soil. But while the custody battle strongly affected many Cubans, the policy issues now being tackled may not have the same resonance.
"Elian's story was so visual, with this child and his father," said one foreign official. "Can you keep that up with the Cuban Adjustment Act without any such visuals? It will be difficult."
In the short term, diplomats said, the Cuban government has scored some points through its campaign for Elian's return. They pointed to the easing of restrictions on American food sales passed this week by the United States Congress. They said that decision was a result of a growing sentiment against the embargo in the United States among people who favored Elian's return and who were turned off by the hardball tactics of Elian's Miami relatives and their supporters who sought to keep him.
"They noticed it was not just about a regime, but there were real people living in Cuba," one diplomat said. "A lot of people in the United States questioned the embargo, and Elian helped with that sentiment." 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (88%); IMMIGRATION (74%); REFUGEES (70%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (70%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (67%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID; CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES); GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL FIDEL CASTRO (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



737 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: New U.S. Farm Subsidy Plan Is Contrary to European Position

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON 

DATELINE: GENEVA, June 29

 BODY:
The Clinton administration introduced a sweeping new proposal today at the World Trade Organization to change the way governments subsidize farmers, challenging the European Union's extensive agricultural subsidies.
The American plan would simplify financial support to farmers and reduce or end disparities in tariffs to increase market openings for agricultural goods from other countries. 
 The proposal, disclosed today in Geneva and Washington, will be formally introduced Friday at a session of the W.T.O. agricultural talks, which began last March.
Under the plan, the current domestic subsidies system would be revised to eliminate those agricultural subsidies not directly linked to price and volume of output. There also would be a ceiling on the level of domestic subsidies based on a percentage of the country's total agricultural production.
While the approach by the United States was welcomed by exporting countries, it is likely to add to tension between the United States and the European Union, which are already at odds over a number of politically sensitive trade matters, including bananas and corporate tax breaks.
The failure to begin a new global trade round last December in Seattle was in large part attributed to serious differences in how to tackle the issue of agriculture. The United States and an 18-country group of agriculture exporters argue that European export subsidies hinder competition and drive up consumer prices. The E.U., Switzerland, Norway and Japan maintain that rural areas need such financial protection to ensure their survival.
Despite these differences, members of the W.T.O. are bound to negotiate farm subsidies because of commitments they have already made.
The new United States proposal is directly contrary to the position of the European Union, which spends about half of its total budget on agricultural subsidies and supports payments to farmers not to grow crops.
The 15-country trading bloc has criticized the United States government for denouncing subsidies at the same time it supports what the Europeans call a hidden subsidy, emergency aid, to farmers.
Last week Franz Fischler, the union's agricultural commissioner, criticized American farm spending, saying the Clinton administration had increased spending to record levels. Two weeks ago Congress passed a $15 billion relief bill to assist farmers who are facing a fourth year of economic downturn.
The American special negotiator for agriculture, Gregory Frazier, in Geneva, defended emergency aid packages to American farmers as falling within W.T.O. rules.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION; EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (94%); SWITZERLAND (94%); JAPAN (79%); NORWAY (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CROP CONTROLS AND SUBSIDIES; FARMERS; FINANCES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (93%); AGRICULTURE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); TAX RELIEF (77%); EXPORT PROMOTION (77%); GLOBALIZATION (77%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (77%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); CORPORATE TAX (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); OLSON, ELIZABETH BILL CLINTON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



738 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2085 words

HEADLINE: Israeli Armorer in a Global Arena;
Aircraft Maker Runs Afoul of U.S. With China Radar Contract

BYLINE: By WILLIAM A. ORME Jr. 

DATELINE: LOD, Israel, June 28

 BODY:
Behind a tarpaulin-covered fence at the far edge of the Israel Aircraft Industries complex at Ben-Gurion International Airport here sits a refurbished Russian transport, its saucer-like radar pod temporarily removed for fine-tuning.
Within weeks, company officials say, the pod will be back, the radar switched on, and the distinctive droop-winged jet ready for its final test flights. The plane, a transformed Ilyushin-76, will be able to monitor air and telecommunications traffic more than 200 miles away -- the specifications ordered by the plane's owner, the People's Republic of China. 
 For Israel Aircraft Industries' president, Moshe Keret, who over the last 15 years has built a virtually bankrupt military contractor into Israel's biggest exporter, the sale was to have been one of his greatest achievements. The Phalcon early-warning radar system installed on the Chinese plane showcased all the strengths of I.A.I. -- as the state-owned company is known -- its technological prowess and its success in developing new markets abroad to help pay for Israel's weapons.
But if the Pentagon has its way, and the betting here is that it will, the converted Ilyushin will never reach China, which long ago gave Israel Aircraft the down payment on the $250 million spy plane.
Today, President Clinton reiterated Washington's concern that China could use the radar system against American forces in the Taiwan Strait. Earlier in the week, the House Appropriations Committee called on Israel to terminate the deal, with many members pledging to cut Israel's aid if it does not.
"We signed a contract," a top official of Israel Aircraft said. "We have their money. Now we say, 'No, sorry?' "
To foreign policy analysts, the Phalcon dispute is an illustration of how Israeli-American strategic ties are still often frayed by miscommunication and mistrust on both sides -- as well as by rare but deep divergences in each country's conception of its national interest. The China contract has opened the first significant rift between the Clinton administration and the government of Prime Minister Ehud Barak, just as both governments are trying to persuade the Palestinians to join them in Washington for a conclusive round of peace talks.
But to Mr. Keret, 65, who has worked at Israel Aircraft his entire adult life, the conflict is also a potential business catastrophe, one that he thinks directly threatens his company's prospects for survival in an increasingly competitive and consolidated global arms industry.
A threat to Israel Aircraft's future is seen by many Israeli leaders as a threat to the nation, both militarily and economically. The company, founded in 1953, is the centerpiece of a domestic arms and aeronautics industry that Israel considers the key to its defense.
"I don't want to talk about the Phalcon per se," Mr. Keret, who has been asked by the government not to comment on the deal, said at I.A.I. headquarters here. "But what is the environment in which we are operating? It is very competitive. Although we are a state-owned company, we get no subsidy, and no favoritism from the defense ministry."
Compared with Boeing and other behemoths of the global defense trade, Israel Aircraft is no giant: its $1 billion in foreign military sales puts it about 30th among major arms sellers abroad, according to independent assessments. Overall sales reached $2 billion last year, two-thirds from military contracts and the rest from commercial aircraft production and maintenance.
But it is difficult to overstate the company's importance to Israel. With 14,000 skilled workers, Israel Aircraft is by far the country's biggest industrial employer, comparable in American terms to General Motors and General Electric combined. A further 15,000 Israeli jobs are indirectly dependent on the company. And its $1.6 billion in military and commercial sales abroad make it the biggest exporter.
"If there is a disaster in I.A.I. for one reason or another," Mr. Keret said, "its effects would be felt throughout the country."
A certain disaster for the company would be any significant erosion of American aid. I.A.I. has been the biggest beneficiary of American rules permitting a quarter of military assistance to be spent in Israel -- for purchases of arms produced in this country. Yet Moshe Arens, a three-time former defense minister, whose views are widely shared here, said this week that $2 billion in annual military aid is "not sufficient to make us start accepting U.S. control over defense industry exports."
American officials seem mystified that Israel would jeopardize its critical international alliance by pursuing what appears to be a marginal weapons deal. Last fall, as the China controversy broke into the open, the same Israeli officials who were defending the Phalcon sale were presenting Washington with a $17 billion wish list of arms they said the country needed to compensate for the expected turnover of the Golan Heights to Syria. Now the Israelis are discussing a similar military aid package to safeguard a peace pact with the Palestinians.
"I have tried to explain to Israelis that Americans cannot understand why Israel was refusing to give up $250 million when it was asking the United States for $17 billion," said David Makovsky, who has been an Israeli analyst at the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
But far more than $250 million is at stake, leaders of this country say. "We'll do our utmost to act sensitively and to be attentive to U.S. interests," Mr. Barak, who appoints Israel Aircraft's board, said. "At the same time, there's a contract with China, signed during the incumbency of the previous government. The state doesn't call off contracts to which it is a signatory just like that."
Even seen narrowly, the contract with China is potentially a $2 billion deal, huge by Israel Aircraft standards. Under terms negotiated three years ago, Beijing has options to buy seven more Phalcon-equipped Ilyushins. Fulfilling such a contract would catapult the company into an elite fraternity of major contractors in bidding for such systems -- and it would subsidize further technological advances at home. Though Israel Aircraft lost to Boeing in a recent bid to supply early-warning planes to Australia, it is competing for a $2 billion contract in Turkey.
Worse, executives say, the cancellation of the contract would be a signal to potential customers that no deal with Israel Aircraft is final, as the United States could effectively veto a promised delivery.
"Better to buy from the Europeans," a gloomy executive said. Or perhaps from the Russians, who supplied destroyers, cruise missiles and other heavy weaponry to the Chinese over the last decade with few protests from Washington.
Or, as others here cynically suggest, from the Americans themselves. Israelis point to the continuing export of advanced military technology to China by the United States in the last decade: since the ban by Congress in 1989 on military sales to Beijing, after the crackdown on pro-democracy protests in Tiananmen Square, the White House has issued waivers for some $300 million in exports of satellite and encryption equipment to the country.
Moreover, the United States did not renege on its own deals, Israelis note, fulfilling $36 million in orders placed by China before the ban, including anti-artillery radar systems.
In an editorial last week, the newspaper Maariv decried what it called "Washington's attempts to torpedo the deal and sabotage Israel's defense exports, perhaps out of the desire to protect the interests of giant U.S. corporations."
Yet Maariv, like other leading media voices here, concluded that Israel would have little choice but to renege on the contract. Until the dispute is resolved, another daily, Haaretz, said, "The Phalcon will continue to be a sword of Damocles hanging over Israel's head."
Mr. Keret seems surprised by the furor in Washington over the Phalcon deal. Until newspapers here published photos of the plane late last year, setting off the American outcry, company executives say they considered the contract old news.
When the company bid for the contract in 1996, Israel officially notified the United States that the Phalcon system did not incorporate protected American technology, a contention the Pentagon has never challenged. Though Washington officials say they objected to the sale on strategic and human rights grounds, there were no public complaints.
The deal, calling for delivery beginning in 2000, was concluded in highly publicized trips to Moscow and Beijing by Benjamin Netanyahu, then the prime minister, and Yitzhak Mordechai, the defense minister. In April 1998, the Phalcon sale was reported to Congress in a General Accounting Office review of recent Chinese arms purchases.
Again, there were no public American protests, though officials did say they tried to dissuade Israel from signing.
"As the deal went forward, they weren't hearing us anymore," a senior State Department official said.
Though American companies were prohibited from selling radar planes to China after the events there in June 1989, Israel Aircraft considered this a commercial opportunity. In the first foreign sale of its airborne radar, it sent a Phalcon-equipped Boeing 767 to Chile, which was then prohibited by Congressional strictures from buying Boeing Awacs surveillance planes. Washington raised no objections, Mr. Keret said.
From Central America in the 1980's to Turkey in the 1990's, the company provided other military equipment to countries where United States exports were constrained by human rights considerations.
And in China, Israel Aircraft was hardly alone. Competitors in Italy and Britain were offering advanced airborne radar systems to Beijing.
But the United States has since become more worried by Beijing's conflict with Taiwan, and officials are telling the Israeli contractor that no company so dependent on American trade and aid can consider itself geopolitically autonomous.
By design, Mr. Keret has made Israel Aircraft increasingly reliant on the United States as a market, supplier and business partner, creating joint ventures with all the major aerospace companies. And through its own American subsidiaries -- including its Galaxy corporate jet business, based in Fort Worth -- the company says it spends about $400 million yearly in the United States.
With such partners, the company specializes in upgrading American aircraft for foreign air forces -- and even for the United States Air Force, which recently awarded Israel Aircraft and Boeing a $400 million contract to revamp 450 of its T-38 Talon trainers. The small unmanned planes, an I.A.I. specialty, proved a crucial reconnaissance weapon for the United States Army in Kosovo, prompting other NATO orders.
In its most ambitious American joint venture, Israel Aircraft is the principal contractor on the Arrow, a $2 billion antiballistic-missile system deployed here this year.
American support has been critical to the company's turnaround. After weathering a worldwide plunge in military sales in the mid-1990's, it has stayed in the black for 14 consecutive quarters. Net profit last year rose to $70 million.
But just as Boeing and Lockheed Martin heed the Pentagon before pursuing foreign arms deals, so now must Israel Aircraft, many officials of this country reluctantly conclude.
The last time Israel Aircraft tried to buck the Pentagon and its military contractors, Mr. Keret painfully recalls, it almost destroyed the company. The project was his baby: I.A.I.'s own jet fighter, the Lavi, envisioned as a successor -- and competitor -- to the Air Force's F-16. The increasingly expensive project was canceled under pressure from Washington in 1987, just a year after the Lavi's maiden flight. The move wiped out 5,000 jobs and nearly propelled Israel Aircraft into receivership.
Mr. Keret is credited with rescuing the company from the Lavi debacle. The radar and navigation and missile-guidance systems developed for the Lavi were refined into independent products, many of them now installed on I.A.I.-refurbished F-16's.
But as he sits in his corporate offices here, which are still decorated with models and photographs of the extinct Israeli fighter, Mr. Keret says he regrets the loss of corporate and national independence that the Lavi symbolized. "It was a good plane," he said. "I'm sure we could have sold a lot of them."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: A production line for unmanned Hunter aerial vehicles at the Israel Aircraft Industries installation at Lod. The company is Israel's largest exporter and a source of revenue for the nation's weapons production. (Israel Aircraft Industries)(pg. C4); Chinese plane with a special radar system taking off during testing late last year from installation of Israel Aircraft Industries at Lod, near Tel Aviv. Below, an Israeli promoter shows visitors a photo of early warning radar plane at Beijing military exhibition next week. (Photograph by Amir Meiri/Maariv; Illustration by The New York Times); (Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1)
 
Chart: "Fight Club"
Israel may be a pygmy among the nations engaged in the global arms trade, but Israelis say their exporters - led by Israel Aircraft Industries - play a crucial role in maintaining Israel's military strength.
 
United States
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: $53.44
Russia
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 14.63
France
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 11.73
Britain
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 7.34
Germany
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 6.09
Netherlands
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 2.24
China
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 2.21
Ukraine
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 2.05
Italy
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 1.97
Canada
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 1.10
Israel
EXPORTS FOR '95 THROUGH '99: 1.06
 
(Source: Stockholm International Peace Research Institute)(pg. C1)
 
Graph: "Export Drive"
While Israel Aircraft Industries' sales at home have been flat, its exports - both military and commercial - have been growing steadily.
 
Graph tracks exports and domestic sales since 1993.
(Source: Israel Aircraft Industries)(pg. C4)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (93%); UKRAINE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); FRANCE (66%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

COMPANY: ISRAEL AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES ISRAEL AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES LTD (84%); ISRAEL AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES INTERNATIONAL INC (84%); STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ISRAEL AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIES STOCKHOLM INTERNATIONAL PEACE RESEARCH INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL; CHINA; CHINA; TAIWAN; CHINA (97%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TAIWAN (93%); UKRAINE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); GERMANY (79%); NETHERLANDS (71%); FRANCE (66%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ARMS SALES ABROAD; RADAR; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; DEFENSE CONTRACTS; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES AIRCRAFT MFG (91%); RADAR SYSTEMS (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); SEARCH & NAVIGATION INSTRUMENT MFG (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMS TRADE (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (88%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (71%); APPROPRIATIONS (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); ESPIONAGE (65%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); 

PERSON: ORME, WILLIAM A JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); BARAK, EHUD (PRIME MIN); KERET, MOSHE BILL CLINTON (71%); EHUD BARAK (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



739 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

I.M.F. to Consider Changes In Conditions Put on Loans
The International Monetary Fund, which has ordered developing nations to enact wrenching reforms as the price for emergency aid in recent years, is likely to curtail the demands it makes of clients who borrow money in the future, a senior fund official said.
Streamlining the conditions the I.M.F. imposes on borrowers is one of the changes Horst Kohler, the new managing director, is weighing as a panel he set up to study the agency's role finishes a draft report. Page C2. 

Sepsis Drug Lifts Eli Lilly Shares
Eli Lilly said that advanced trials of a drug it is developing to treat the bacterial infection sepsis had met its goals for lowering death rates. Zovant, if eventually approved, would be the first drug to treat complications of the disease, which kills 1,400 people a day worldwide. Lilly said it expected to submit an application to the Food and Drug Administration for approval by the first quarter of 2001. Shares of Lilly soared $15.125, to $102.25. A18.
 
Profit Warnings Pull Down Stocks
Stock prices fell broadly as several prominent companies, including Ericsson, Unisys and Goodyear Tire, warned of lower-than-expected profits. The Nasdaq composite index slid 63.11 points, or 1.6 percent, to 3,877.23. The Dow Jones industrial average slumped 129.75 points, or 1.2 percent, to 10,398.04. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.43 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,442.39. C5.
 
Bond yields fell sharply amid weakness in stocks and investor relief that the Federal Reserve left interest rates unchanged. C5.
 
Airlines' Plans Hurt Priceline Stock
Shares in Priceline.com dropped 8.4 percent after a report that six major airlines -- America West Airlines, American Airlines, Continental Airlines, Northwest Airlines, United Airlines and US Airways -- plan to invest in a competing Web site for customers looking for discounts on plane tickets online. C2.
 
First-Quarter G.D.P. Revised Up
Gross domestic product, the broadest measure of economic activity, grew at an annual rate of 5.5 percent in the first quarter instead of the 5.4 percent estimated a month ago, the Commerce Department said, raising the prospect of more interest-rate increases this year. C2.
 
Druckenmiller to Rejoin Duquesne
Stanley Druckenmiller, who quit Soros Fund Management in April and also told investors in his Duquesne Capital Management fund group that he was taking a break, is now telling Duquesne investors that he will return in September, according to investors in the firm. Duquesne, based in Pittsburgh, has about $2 billion in assets from clients that include Bowdoin College, Mr. Druckenmiller's alma mater in Maine; Berea College in Kentucky; and Denison University in Ohio. C2.
 
Nominee for Commerce Secretary
President Clinton nominated a former congressman, Norman Y. Mineta, as secretary of commerce for the rest of his presidency. Mr. Mineta would become the first Asian-American to hold a Cabinet post. A15.
 
Ford in Exclusive Talks for Daewoo
Ford won exclusive rights to negotiate the purchase of Daewoo Motor of South Korea with a $6.9 billion offer that would be Ford's largest foreign acquisition and could significantly strengthen its operations in Asia. C3.
 
U.S. Proposes Changes in Subsidies
The Clinton administration introduced a sweeping proposal at the World Trade Organization to change the way governments subsidize farmers, challenging the European Union's extensive agricultural subsidies. C4.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo
 
Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow industrials -- 10,398.04 down 129.75
Nasdaq composite -- 3,877.23 down 63.11
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 5.87% down 0.08
The euro -- $0.9525 up 0.0108
The dollar -- 105.06yen down 0.54
 
Graph: "TODAY" shows Personal Income
May figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.
Expected: +0.2%
 
Graph tracks Eli Lilly share price since Thurs.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (82%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); GT (SWX) (55%); GT (NASDAQ) (55%); GT (BRU) (55%); PCLN (NASDAQ) (53%); DAL (NYSE) (53%); UAL (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (55%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (55%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (55%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (55%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (55%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (53%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (53%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (50%); 

CITY: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (82%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (55%); PRICELINE.COM INC (53%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (53%); AMERICA WEST AIRLINES INC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (53%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (93%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (50%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES STOCK INDEXES (94%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AIRLINES (89%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (75%); APPROVALS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); INTEREST RATES (74%); BONDS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (71%); US FDA APPROVALS (70%); PROFIT WARNINGS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (69%); US FDA REVIEW (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); TRAVEL TICKETS (63%); 

PERSON: STANLEY DRUCKENMILLER (61%); HORST KOHLER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



740 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Fight Over Cuban Boy Leaves Scars in Miami

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG 

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 29

 BODY:
She was 19 when she came here from Colombia 43 years ago, but even working with a mop in her hand, Maria Hernandez believed she had found paradise. Then Elian Gonzalez came, and in the seven months of speeches, marches and conflict that followed, her Miami changed.
She was driving to work recently when a pickup flying American flags pulled up beside her. "I looked over, in that way people glance over at each other at stoplights," said Mrs. Hernandez, who now owns a cleaning service. 
 The man in the truck rolled down a window and made an obscene gesture at her, because he thought she was Cuban-American, she believes. She was not flying the American flag upside-down, the way angry Cuban-Americans had, in protest. She was just going to work.
"He looked at me with these mean eyes," she said, and she knew her paradise was gone.
"I went to Eckerd's to buy some things, and two cashiers were fighting about Elian right in front of their customers," said Ms. Hernandez, who is married to a Cuban-American and wanted Elian to stay here.
But the cost has been high. "This is not the city I grew to love. I have neighbors who do not speak to each other. People's personalities have completely changed. I never knew there was so much hate in this city."
Elian -- the battle to keep him, the armed federal raid that took him from Miami, and the courtroom decisions that sent him home to Cuba -- widened racial and ethnic divisions that are part of this city's history.
It is perhaps the saddest legacy of Elian, say experts on Cuban exile history, immigration and international politics, but it is hardly the only one.
The fight to keep Elian in the United States became an all-or-nothing battle for many Cuban-Americans, the dominant culture in Miami, and it has cost them prestige and power. It has changed the way that others around the country see them and their cause, say experts on the community, and may even lead to a loosening of American relations with President Fidel Castro.
"It was not handled intelligently," said Lisandro Perez, director of the Cuban Research Institute at Florida International University. "It was driven by emotions and passions, and you don't act intelligently when you are driven by emotions and passions."
But Cuban-American leaders said the fight was necessary, and moral. And while it may have colored the way people view them, it also drew younger people to an old cause.
"It has united the exile community," said Jose Basulto, the president of Brothers to the Rescue, a group of Cuban-American pilots who search the Florida Straits for rafters.
As for its cost, Mr. Basulto said, "I could care less what the American people think about the Cuban exile community."
But it does matter, political experts said.
The Elian experience "has weakened the Cuban-American position" in many ways, Mr. Perez said. "The anti-embargo position has been strengthened and it's not because Americans suddenly realized Fidel Castro is a good guy. It's because the Elian case has made Cuban-Americans lose a lot of credibility."
As most of the nation seemed to believe that a 6-year-old boy should be with his father, and the courts said that he should, too, Cuban-Americans could not see beyond their hatred of Mr. Castro, political and immigration experts say.
"This became a bizarre experience where family, flag and police -- all parts of the Republican trinity -- were attacked by Cuban-Americans," said David Abraham, a professor of immigration law at the University of Miami. "There was the firing of the police chief because he kept public order, and the desecration of the flag, and it was very disconcerting to middle Americans."
In Miami, it has ruined friendships and brought a strained politeness to relationships.
For years, Ann-Sofi Truby and a Cuban-American who does maintenance at her house in South Miami had talked, "about our families, different things," said Ms. Truby, who has lived here nearly 30 years.
They stopped talking during the Elian situation.
"I would stay inside while he was here," she said, because talk would end in argument.
In the past several months, Ms. Truby, who is in her 60's, bought an American flag. She waved it from her Volvo whenever she saw people demonstrating for Elian's remaining here.
No apologies are being offered on either side.
"All of us should feel extremely satisfied," said Ninoska Perez, a spokeswoman for the Cuban American National Foundation, by far the most powerful of the exile groups.
"Castro had to wait until the judicial process came to an end" to claim Elian, Ms. Perez said. "For someone who has not respected any laws during the last 41 years, that should be a loss."
But the way the Cuban-American power structure conducted itself left many in Miami feeling alienated.
Mayor Alex Penelas of Miami-Dade County and Mayor Joe Carollo of Miami made it clear that they sided with Cuban-Americans against the federal government, drawing a backlash from around the country. Then, Mr. Carollo fired his city manager and forced the resignation of his police chief -- both non-Cuban whites -- and Cuban-Americans filled both posts.
"The Cuban exiles have shown such arrogance," said Garth Reeves, the publisher emeritus of the city's black newspaper, The Miami Times. "They're saying, 'This is our town now, and, damn it, we run it. We make the decisions' " to the exclusion of everyone else.
To Mr. Reeves, and to many other black Miamians, Cuban-Americans are a pampered minority that became a pampered majority, and now -- at the first major setback for them in recent history -- they denigrate the country that gave them a haven.
Gov. Jeb Bush, a Republican who has enjoyed the support of Cuban-Americans in Miami, blamed the media for what he called a misunderstanding of the situation.
"I think it's damaged -- incorrectly so -- the nature of Cuban-Americans in Miami," Governor Bush said. "It breaks my heart to see the national press depict people who have been lovers of freedom the way that this has all played out."
But as Mr. Bush spoke, Cuban-Americans here continued to vent their anger at a government that they feel has betrayed them, at best, and, at worst, is in league with Mr. Castro.
"I am never going to vote again," said Magaly Lima, 58, who came to Miami 38 years ago.
The long-term impact may be economic. Social instability, economics experts said, seldom leads to a strong economy.
"These recent events have made Miami less attractive," said Michael Connolly, chairman of the economics department at the University of Miami School of Business. "People are moving away if they live here and aren't coming down here if they don't."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Luis Zarrager, a native of Cuba, yesterday visited the Miami home where Elian Gonzalez had lived and where protesters had gathered for months. (Associated Press)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR AZOV SEA FISHERY PROBLEMS (51%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR MEDICAL TECHNOLOGY (51%); RESEARCH INSTITUTE FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (98%); CUBA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); MIAMI, FL, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: CUBAN-AMERICANS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); IMMIGRATION (86%); HISTORY (78%); REFUGEES (77%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (74%); ETHNICITY (64%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (60%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (59%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK; GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL FIDEL CASTRO (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



741 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Con Ed Put Off Plant Upgrade Over Rate Fear

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Consolidated Edison decided in 1997 not to replace the steam generator that would cause an accident at a Westchester County nuclear reactor two and a half years later because the company was uncertain whether the move was a good financial bet in the deregulated market that was developing, according to an internal planning document.
Some utility industry experts say the document may be the first evidence that electricity deregulation can compromise nuclear safety, a concern that critics have voiced for years. 
 The accident, on Feb. 15 at Con Ed's Indian Point 2 nuclear reactor in Buchanan, N.Y., was the most serious in the reactor's 27-year history. A small amount of radioactive steam escaped after corrosion cracked a tube in one of the reactor's four steam generators, which carry superheated radioactive water.
While no one was hurt and Con Edison says the amount of radiation released was tiny, the accident has had serious consequences, including the shutting of the plant for at least five months, and possibly longer, at a time of tight electricity supplies. It has also complicated the company's efforts to sell the reactor.
In October 1997, Con Ed financial planners concluded that replacing the reactor's steam generators soon was the cheapest option for customers and shareholders. Their analysis noted that the generators were deteriorating -- a common occurrence in reactors -- limiting how much electricity they could produce. And if the generators were not replaced, they would have to be inspected more often, cutting the number of days the plant could run, according to the planners' document, which was provided to The New York Times by Edward A. Smeloff, a utility expert at Pace University Law School who has been critical of Con Ed's performance in running the reactor.
But Con Ed's analysis also pointed out that its financial projections were highly sensitive to the price of electricity and that postponing a decision would give the company an opportunity to refine its estimates as the state made its transition to a deregulated electricity market. That transformation happened last November.
In their analysis, the financial planners accepted a judgment -- which turned out to be wrong -- by Con Ed engineers that the existing steam generators were safe for continued use, although if kept in place they would need an extra inspection each year. As it turned out, Con Ed got permission to skip the extra inspection in 1999; it would have been the last one before the accident.
Asked about the analysis, a vice president of Con Edison, Steven E. Quinn, said yesterday that the benefit projected for replacing the steam generators -- $85 million over 14 years -- was too small to justify the financial risk, because the uncertainties were so large. He said, though, that those uncertainties were not just the future cost of power but also how well the plant would run after the replacement.
"The uncertainty on the assumptions was large," he said.
The Con Ed analysis compared three options for the reactor: replacing the steam generators and running the plant until its license expired in 2013; not replacing the generators and running the plant until 2013, but at a lower power level and with an extra shutdown every year for inspections, averaging 30 to 36 days; or simply retiring the plant in 1999 or 2001. The first option was judged the least expensive.
Mr. Smeloff, the director of the Pace Law School Energy Project and a former utility manager, said in a telephone interview: "Even from a shareholder perspective, replacing steam generators in '99 made economic sense. If you assume management was acting in the best interest of shareholders, this is the choice they would have made."
But King Look, a section manager in Con Edison's generation planning department and one of the authors of the document, said the problem was that the financial projections were highly sensitive to electricity prices, and that no one knew how those prices would run in a deregulated market.
Con Ed projected that replacing the steam generators would cost $121 million, not including the cost of the equipment itself. Con Ed has replacement generators on site, which it obtained from Westinghouse, the original manufacturer, as part of a legal settlement in the 1990's.
The company figured that the cost of running the plant until license expiration in 2013 was $1.52 billion; shutting it down in 1999 would cost $59 million more, including replacement power costs, but replacing the steam generators would save $85 million.
The projections were of "net present value," a common technique in business analysis that means taking interest rates into account and valuing a dollar today more than a dollar a year from now. They assumed an extra annual shutdown for steam generator inspection, and assumed that with new steam generators, the plant's maximum power level could rise 30 megawatts, about 3.5 percent.
The fear that deregulation may compromise reactor safety has often been voiced but, experts say, seldom if ever borne out. In 1994, Ivan Selin, then chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, reacting to nascent signs of deregulation in California, told reporters that "even financially sound utilities are under great pressure to reduce their rates, to be competitive; they may be tempted to put off capital investment that we consider necessary to maintain equipment in top shape."
Con Edison asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in June for permission to restart the plant with the existing steam generators and run it for up to 10 months without reinspection, although the company now says it will replace the steam generators later this year. The commission is expected to rule next month. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%); CON EDISON (97%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONSOLIDATED EDISON CO OF NEW YORK INC CON EDISON (97%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); GENERAL EDUCATIONAL DEVELOPMENT TEST (GED) NUCLEAR ENERGY (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (90%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (89%); ENERGY REGULATION (89%); UTILITY RESTRUCTURING (89%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); INSPECTIONS (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (63%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (63%); 

PERSON: SMELOFF, EDWARD A; WALD, MATTHEW L CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



742 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 618 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Nader's Misguided Crusade

 BODY:
Ralph Nader's long history of public service championing the causes of consumers, the environment and economic justice automatically commands respect. But in running for president as the nominee of the Green Party, he is engaging in a self-indulgent exercise that will distract voters from the clear-cut choice represented by the major-party candidates, Vice President Al Gore and Gov. George W. Bush. His candidacy will be especially harmful for Mr. Gore, the contender closest to Mr. Nader on the environment and other issues. This political reality casts doubt on Mr. Nader's claim to be driven by policy differences rather than ego.
We are equally reluctant to see the main election choices clouded by the spoiler candidacy of Patrick Buchanan on the Reform Party ticket, an effort that seems likely to pull votes from both Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush. Of course, both Mr. Buchanan and Mr. Nader have the right to run. But given the major differences between the prospective Democratic and Republican nominees, there is no driving logic for a third-party candidacy this year, and the public deserves to see the major-party candidates compete on an uncluttered playing field. 
 It is especially distressing to see Mr. Nader flirt with the spoiler role. For years, few Americans have made a more cogent critique of the Washington influence game and the abuses of corporate power. From his early attacks on automobile safety records to his most recent advocacy of campaign finance reform, he has elevated issues and sharpened Americans' awareness of flaws in their political system. Mr. Nader acknowledges that on his traditional issues, Mr. Gore would promise moreprogress than Mr. Bush. But because he regards Mr. Gore as too much an incrementalist, Mr. Nader is saying in effect that he would choose outright defeat for the Democrats over small steps forward on those issues. That is a kind of irresponsibility that more befits a Ross Perot than someone with Mr. Nader's record and professed concerns.
Mr. Nader may argue that he will force Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush to be more sensitive to election fund-raising reform and environmental issues. But the fact is that they have defined broad differences on these two issues without his help. The main economic issue that divides Mr. Nader from the major-party candidates is trade, and there, both Mr. Gore and Mr. Bush have positions that are better for the wage-earning voters that Mr. Nader claims to represent. For he and the Green Party are against all the recent trade agreements, including American membership in the World Trade Organization.
Mr. Nader clearly expects to use the trade issue to win votes from disenchanted union members and other workers. But protectionism runs counter to much of what Mr. Nader has fought for over the years. Foreign competition has been a factor in forcing the automobile industry to become more productive, fuel-efficient and profitable. There are also far more American workers whose jobs depend on exports, and whose families are able to buy less expensive goods imported from overseas, than there are those dislocated by trade.
No doubt the last seven years under Mr. Clinton have been trying for liberals. Mr. Nader's opposition to the death penalty, his scathing critique of Democratic Party fund-raising and his willingness to embrace unorthodox positions like the gasoline tax may all have the effect of enlivening the public debate. But the only realistic role he can play this year is to tilt swing states like California in a conservative direction. Such an outcome would be contrary to the policy thrust of his career and add an unbecoming chapter to his legacy as a conscience-driven crusader. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: GREEN PARTY

ORGANIZATION: GREEN PARTY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 2000; EDITORIALS POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (73%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); FUNDRAISING (67%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (64%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); LABOR UNIONS (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GORE, AL (VICE PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (GOV); NADER, RALPH RALPH NADER (92%); AL GORE (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



743 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Cuban-American Lobby on the Defensive

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
After dominating the United States policy debate over Cuba for nearly two decades, Cuban-American advocates of a hard-line stance toward Havana find themselves on the defensive, increasingly estranged from other Americans, supporters and critics say.
As a result, the Cuban American National Foundation, the pre-eminent exile lobby, is reorganizing its leadership to include younger faces and today appointed a non-Cuban former State Department expert on Cuba to head its Washington office. 
 The Miami-based group is also singling out the districts of Congressional adversaries for television advertisements and pledging to spend "whatever it takes" to protect the unyielding American policy it helped to create.
With the return home this week of Elian Gonzalez, the 6-year-old Cuban refugee, and an agreement in Congress to lift the ban on sales of food and medicine to Cuba, exiles are adjusting to a political landscape that increasingly favors accommodation with President Fidel Castro.
The travails of the foundation, widely viewed as one of the most effective ethnic lobbies in the United States, are emblematic of exiles' lost political ground. The lobby's leaders this week portrayed their prosperous constituency as an underdog, in a moral struggle against Goliath: American farmers and corporations bent on doing business with Castro.
"We really have no choice but to respond in a very aggressive way," said Jose Cardenas, the foundation's Washington director.
Joe Garcia, the foundation's new executive director, complained that the Cuban lobby had been bruised by "very good players" in the public relations arena: Attorney General Janet Reno, President Clinton and Mr. Castro himself.
For some Cuba-watchers, such shifts are a stark reversal from the foundation's heyday under the iron-fisted stewardship of Jorge Mas Canosa, a multimillionaire businessman who breezed through the halls of Washington with the aura and the entourage of a head of state.
Under Mr. Mas Canosa, the well-financed lobby mustered a stable of loyal Congressional allies, drafted Cuba legislation, established anti-Castro radio and television stations with federal money and kept United States-Cuban relations in a deep freeze.
But since Mr. Mas Canosa's death in 1997, the exiles have yet to put forth a national figure who commands respect and fear in Washington. Without such leadership, the foundation has invited challengers.
"That's all it was: It was Jorge Mas, his personal relationships and fund-raising," said a Congressional aide who works with the lobby. "That got things done. Now that he's died, his son really hasn't taken up the cause."
Under the direction of Mr. Mas Canosa's son, who is also named Jorge, the foundation ran into a public relations fiasco with the Elian Gonzalez case. To an extent, it was self-inflicted. Within hours of the boy's rescue from Florida waters last Thanksgiving, the lobby was the first to convert Elian, literally, into a poster child, distributing thousands of leaflets of him at the World Trade Organization meeting in Seattle beneath the headline: "Another child victim of Fidel Castro."
Castro quickly responded, portraying Elian as a kidnap victim, being kept from a devoted father by an exile band of extremists. Americans who had paid little attention to the Cuba policy debate tended to support the father's claim over exile relatives in Miami, who insisted that the boy be granted political asylum.
"They showed what they were really all about," Representative Jim McDermott, Democrat of Washington, said of the Cuban-American hard-liners. "They were ready to sacrifice one of their own kids, and they didn't really care about separating him from his father."
Exile hard-liners acknowledge missteps in handling the case. But they deny their actions had any impact in what came next: a drive by American business -- led by the Farm Bureau and the United States Chamber of Commerce -- to open Cuba for business after 38 years of embargo.
"I think that if there was any negativity surrounding the Elian Gonzalez situation, it was pretty much self-contained," Mr. Cardenas said. "I think that basically people saw it as the equivalent of the O. J. situation. They just wanted it to be over, and out of their living rooms."
But Max Castro, a sociologist at the University of Miami's North-South Center, disagrees.
During the seven-month struggle over Elian, Mr. Castro said, people who had paid little attention to America's policy toward Cuba began to ask questions about the hard-line approach. "Americans have basically said it's a policy that hasn't worked, and it's inconsistent with the rest of our foreign policy," Mr. Castro said.
Pressed by lawmakers representing wheat and rice growers, Congressional Republicans agreed this week to lift the ban on sales of food to Cuba, a move that has already been approved by the Senate.
Foundation officials portrayed the deal as merely symbolic, noting that allies had barred federal or private credits for such sales.
The lobby moved quickly to regain its footing. In a news conference today, the foundation announced that Dennis Hays, a former American ambassador in Suriname, would take over its Washington office.
Mr. Hays, who is not Cuban-American, endeared himself to many exiles in 1995, when he resigned as the State Department's top officer for Cuba to protest a deal to allow the forced repatriation of Cuban refugees.
The foundation has also sought to renovate its image in Miami, where it has long been led by exiles from Mr. Mas Canosa's generation.
In his new post, the American-born Mr. Garcia, 35, promises to update the foundation's image, including "more sophisticated" media efforts to educate the American people about Cuba.
"You certainly are going to see a reinvigorated foundation," said Mr. Garcia. He eschews the familiar "bearded tyrant" references to President Castro, calling him instead "this old goofball."
As a start, the foundation plans to run television advertisements that highlight Mr. Castro's abuses. Beginning this weekend, the foundation plans to air advertisements denouncing the haven provided by Cuba to scores of fugitives from American justice.
The advertisements are to broadcast first in Washington, D.C., Mr. Cardenas said, and later in the districts of selected lawmakers who favor easing sanctions.
Mr. McDermott, the Washington Democrat, said foundation officials risked further isolating themselves with such tactics. "Threatening people is not going to help them," he said. 
http://www.nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: ;CUBAN AMERICAN NATIONAL FOUNDATION

ORGANIZATION: ;CUBAN AMERICAN NATIONAL FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (99%); CUBA (95%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; CUBAN-AMERICANS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TELEVISION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); REFUGEES (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (70%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (70%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (59%); 

PERSON: MARQUIS, CHRISTOPHER; GONZALEZ, ELIAN; GONZALEZ, JUAN MIGUEL; HAYS, DENNIS JOE GARCIA (79%); FIDEL CASTRO (78%); BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



744 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: Women Become the Darlings Of the Candidates in Mexico

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 29

 BODY:
The macho, conservative world of Mexican politics has finally begun to show off its more feminine side as political parties battle as never before to win the votes of women.
Male strippers were hired to perform at one campaign rally. Television advertisements raised questions about candidates' relationships with their former wives, a subject long considered taboo for public discussion. And while the participation of candidates' families is common in the United States, the high-profile roles of political wives and daughters in Mexico this year has signaled a new opening for women and women's issues in government. 
 Because of their numbers, women have been strongly courted by political candidates in Mexico since they gained the vote in 1953. But in Sunday's presidential election -- currently a statistical dead heat between the governing party candidate, Francisco Labastida Ochoa, and the center-right opponent, Vicente Fox Quesada -- women's votes may be decisive.
Some 52 percent of the Mexican electorate are women; more than one-third of all voters are homemakers.
Because of that power, the way the presidential candidates dress, speak and arrange their schedules, whether campaigning in urban centers or rural villages, is done to appeal to women.
Leaders of the National Feminine Civic Association said that for the first time they had been invited to meetings with most presidential candidates to express their concerns about women.
Mr. Fox's penchant for bluejeans and cowboy boots may make him appear more down to earth among working men, but to many women they make him just plain sexy. And Mr. Labastida has turned to his wife, Maria Teresa Uriarte de Labastida, to help infuse warmth and color into his image.
Mrs. Labastida is an expert on Mayan culture who moves as easily at indigenous ceremonies as she does among the Mexican elite. Pretty and poised, Mrs. Labastida often wraps her husband in bearhugs on stage and gladly complies when the crowds demand she give him a kiss. Her visibility and political self-assuredness have brought comparisons to Hillary Rodham Clinton.
And it seems that Mrs. Labastida shares the same instinct for political combat. At a recent rally of the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party, or PRI, for women at the National Auditorium, it was Mrs. Labastida who criticized Mr. Fox for his occasional use of vulgar language, suggesting that he was not only a bad influence on children but also undeserving of public trust.
Women like Eva Nely Duarte Ochoa, 43, a homemaker and mother of three from Michoacan, hung on every word. "To see the party recognize the talents of women, for me, is proof that they understand our needs and that they are going to pay attention," she said. "Women have always participated in all parts of society, but now we are being recognized for our contributions."
The efforts appear to have paid off for the PRI. While the most reliable final polls last week showed that the support for Mr. Labastida and Mr. Fox among voters in general was too close to call, they found that Mr. Labastida was slightly more popular among women.
Homemakers, the largest segment of voters among women, have long been a bastion of support for the PRI, especially those who live in rural communities, have fewer years of education and hold more conservative beliefs. And it seems that support is holding.
But women's strength no longer lies only in their numbers. There has also been evidence of a coming of age as women assume greater control in their homes and communities. According to the Mexican Association of Women Executives, more and more women have moved into the work force, with close to 40 percent of all Mexican women involved in some type of economic activity for the benefit of their families. Among workers, women have an average of 1.3 years more education than men. And more than 50 percent of all university students are women.
Women tend to be more sensitive than men to how well the government fulfills its responsibilities, analysts say, and less afraid to express discontent. As homemakers, they are the ones who worry most about whether there is electricity, clean water, reliable transportation and good schools and hospitals. And in the workplace, they have become vocal advocates for fair wages and safe conditions.
"Women more than any other group, except maybe young people, are the most active proponents for change," said Martha Sahagun, a spokeswoman for Mr. Fox. "They are the most forceful fighters and to limit their importance to their numbers devalues their significance."
Margarita Elena Tapia, a candidate for the Mexico City Council of Delegates, considers her campaign the product of women's new political power. The left-wing Center Democratic Party asked her to be its candidate, she said, because of a commitment the party had made to feminist organizations and because the grass-roots organizations at work in the neighborhoods Ms. Tapia would represent are led by women.
"Only a few women have served as governors or as cabinet members," she said, "but smart politicians understand that their political bases are controlled by women."
If Mr. Fox, the candidate of the opposition National Action Party, is elected, he will be the first unmarried president of Mexico in recent decades. Both he and Mr. Labastida are divorced, and Mr. Labastida has acknowledged fathering a child out of wedlock. But neither candidate seems to have suffered in popularity because of these matters.
Women like Olga Lidia Colina Gonzalez, a factory worker, said she supported Mr. Fox because she liked what he did for women when he was governor in her home state of Guanajuato. "He told everybody that women's words are worth as much as men's" Mrs. Gonzalez said. "Before people used to use any bad language they wanted with me. Now, wherever I go, I get treated with respect."
Although Mr. Labastida has appeared to win more support among conservative women, it is generally Mr. Fox who espouses more traditional positions on women's and religious issues, especially abortion. A devout Catholic, he said he believes life begins at conception and therefore he personally opposes abortion.
Early in his campaign, Mr. Fox was criticized as being too macho, and even homophobic, by feminist groups when he spoke about his feelings against abortion and when his campaign ran advertisements questioning Mr. Labastida's masculinity.
Then Mr. Fox's pretty and articulate daughters -- two of the four children he adopted with his former wife -- drew on their own existence to soften Mr. Fox's position and blunt those attacks. In interviews with reporters, the daughters talked about how fortunate they felt that their biological mothers decided against abortion. "Just look at us," said Paulina Fox, a 17-year-old who won second place in a national public-speaking competition. "Why would you end the life of someone when there are parents looking for children to care for and make happy."
Since then, Mr. Fox has gained ground among women, and most of it comes from the educated, urban, working women who would be expected to be against him.
According to a June 5 poll in the newspaper Reforma, he beat Mr. Labastida among professionals older and younger than 40, among office workers in the private sector, among general workers in public and private agencies, and among students.
"His position on abortion was the only thing that made me uncomfortable," said Telia Cervantes Gutierrez, a 24-year-old law student. "But when you see his daughters at his side, you know that he really believes it when he says there are alternatives to abortion."
At a Fox rally last Saturday in Mexico City's main plaza, Ms. Cervantes stood next to her mother, Evelia Garduno, 40, a homemaker who said she had decided to vote against the PRI for the first time.
It used to be, Ms. Garduno said, that she was afraid to vote for change. Now, she said, change seemed the best hope for the future of her children. "For years we have waited for better houses, better schools, better jobs," she said. "I do not want to wait anymore."
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Francisco Labastida Ochoa, the candidate of Mexico's governing party, above, with his wife, Maria Teresa, at a rally in Culiacan, Sinaloa. Vicente Fox Quesada, the center-right opposition candidate, campaigns with his daughters, Ana Cristina, left, and Paulina, in the state of Guanajuato. If he wins, he will be the first unmarried president of Mexico in recent decades. Both candidates have been divorced. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTIONAL REVOLUTIONARY PARTY (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES; WOMEN; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DIVORCE, SEPARATIONS AND ANNULMENTS POLITICS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); MEN (78%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (57%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (57%); 

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER; LABASTIDA OCHOA, FRANCISCO (MIN); FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (GOV) VICENTE FOX QUESADA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



745 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Pass $21.5 Billion Budget; Action Delayed on Road and School Plans

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: TRENTON, June 29

 BODY:
In a daylong burst of lawmaking before its summer recess, the New Jersey Legislature easily approved a $21.5 billion budget today and took action on dozens of lesser bills.
The Legislature failed, however, to enact the two capital spending programs that have dominated its agenda for months: $12 billion to build new schools and $3.75 billion to rebuild roads and bridges. 
 With a new fiscal year beginning on Saturday, both houses overwhelmingly passed a boom-time budget that calls for spending increases of nearly 10 percent, far outstripping the rate of inflation but reflecting steadily rising income tax receipts.
A spokesman for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said the governor would use her line-item veto to cut at least $25 million from the budget on Friday to ensure that it contains a surplus of no less than $850 million, another record.
But Assembly leaders balked at both the school construction bill and the refinancing of the Transportation Trust Fund.
The school construction effort, which would be the most ambitious in the nation, appeared close to passage before today, after months of arduous negotiations between Governor Whitman and the leaders of both houses, all three of whom are Republicans.
In broad strokes, it calls for $8.6 billion in state spending for school projects. This includes $6 billion for needy districts, mainly in cities, to comply with a 1998 court order; the rest is for mainly suburban districts, on a sliding scale according to their wealth. Another $3.4 billion would be raised through local taxes. Interest payments over time could actually bring the total cost to $15 billion.
The outline of a deal was, in fact, disclosed today, when the Senate passed an Assembly bill, prompting Governor Whitman to issue a "conditional veto," detailing more than a dozen changes she would require before signing it.
For example, she raised the cost allowance for school projects to $138 per square foot, but insisted that professional fees and site acquisition costs be included in that figure, contrary to the Assembly's wishes. The governor also put the New Jersey Economic Development Authority in charge of the entire construction effort, rather than leaving the financing of projects in the hands of the state's Educational Facilities Authority, as some senators had wished.
In addition, Governor Whitman rejected an Assembly-created provision that would have given lawmakers a veto over projects entirely paid for by the state.
Senators unanimously agreed to the governor's changes today. But the Assembly speaker, Jack Collins, postponed a vote until a special session on July 13, saying that members needed more than just a few hours to digest the governor's changes.
Mr. Collins said he expected that the Assembly eventually would approve the governor's changes, although he suggested that Republicans who had supported earlier versions might now defect. Some, including Leonard Lance, the chairman of the Assembly Budget Committee, have argued that the state Constitution requires that such an expensive bond issue be put before the voters for approval.
Today's session, the last before lawmakers recessed for the summer, was only the latest in a series of deadlines for an agreement on school construction that have passed without a deal. But Mr. Collins, who is likely to be a candidate in next year's governor's race, refused to call the latest delay a delay. He alluded to the more than $120 million included in the new budget for preliminary work on school projects and said that in any case, legislators would have been criticized if they rushed into a "$15 billion project," as he repeatedly and loudly referred to it.
"This will be the biggest building project in the history of the state," Mr. Collins said. "Thinking people want to make sure we do it right."
Assembly leaders used a similar rationale in postponing final passage of the refinancing of the Transportation Trust Fund, which pays for the construction of roads and bridges.
Lawmakers in both houses had agreed on a compromise plan to replenish the fund with $3.75 billion in receipts from the 11.5-cent-a-gallon gas tax over the next four years, while capping the amount of debt that can be raised for transportation projects at $650 million a year.
When the governor conditionally vetoed the bill late today -- lifting a cap that lawmakers had imposed on the amount of money that could be used for salaries and overhead instead of actual construction expenses -- the Senate agreed to her changes but Assembly leaders in both parties refused to comply, deferring a vote to July 13.
The minority leader, Joseph Doria, said that he objected to the changes, saying capital dollars should not be wasted on the salaries of "bureaucrats," but added that he and other Assembly members felt sandbagged by the governor and the Senate. "We thought that this was a bipartisan, bicameral bill," he said. "Nobody spoke to me about this conditional veto."
The $21.5 billion state budget, meanwhile, sailed through both houses, although some lawmakers raised concerns about the size of the spending increase. In the Senate, the vote was 38 to 1, with Senator John A. Lynch, a Democrat from Middlesex County, casting the lone no vote.
Mr. Lynch, who has frequently attacked the state's rising debt burden under Governor Whitman, said the budget lacked a plan for paying off that debt, as well as an effective redevelopment plan for Newark and other urban centers. "It's great to throw money around when there's plenty of it, but I think the theme of this budget cycle is one of missed opportunities," he said.
The Senate also gave final approval to the governor's proposal for an earned income tax credit, which is modeled after a federal tax credit. The program, which would cost $48 million, would provide checks of up to $400 to about 280,000 lower-income working families, many of which earn too little to pay any taxes now.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photo: Speaker Jack Collins of the New Jersey Assembly talked with the minority leader, Joseph Doria, during the budget debate yesterday. Mr. Collins put off to July 13 a vote on a $15 billion school construction bill. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "Highlights of the Legislation Passed"
New Jersey legislators approved dozens of bills yesterday, and ignored some others, in the last regularly scheduled session before summer recess. Bills passed by both houses must be signed by Gov. Christine Todd Whitman before they can become law. Following are highlights:
 
TRANSPORTATION
 
The Senate and Assembly approved a bill to finance the state highway-building fund for the next four years, without increasing the gasoline tax. The bill would increase the limit on annual spending from the fund by at least $200 million, to $900 million next year. It would also reduce the amount of bonds that could be issued each year, to $650 million from $700 million, and would favor maintenance projects over new construction. Governor Whitman sent the measure back to the Legislature for changes, which the Senate approved. The Assembly will take up the amended bill later.
 
GASOLINE TAX
 
The Senate and Assembly voted to repeal a wholesale petroleum tax, pegged to prices, that would have resulted in a 4-cent increase in the price of gasoline.
 
DORMITORY SPRINKLERS
 
The Senate and Assembly approved a bill to require all college and boarding school dormitory rooms to be fitted with sprinklers within four years. The bill, which would provide $90 million to help pay for the sprinklers, was prompted by a fatal fire at Seton Hall University that killed three students in January.
 
BEAR HUNTING
 
The Assembly failed to vote on a measure, approved by the Senate, that would ban bear hunts. The inaction appears to pave the way for a hunt of 175 black bears this fall that was authorized by the State Fish and Game Council.
 
DRUG PENALTIES
 
The Assembly passed a measure, already approved by the Senate, to raise penalties for dealing in the drug Ecstasy to the level of those for dealing in cocaine and heroin. It follows reports about the dangers of Ecstasy and mass arrests of teenagers who used the drug, a stimulant and mild hallucinogen, at all-night dance parties, or raves.
 
MEGAN'S LAW
 
The Senate gave final approval for a referendum on the November ballot proposing a constitutional amendment to allow the names and addresses of sex offenders to be posted on the Internet.
 
OFF-TRACK BETTING
 
The Senate and Assembly passed a bill to allow the State Racing Commission to license up to 15 off-track betting parlors around the state. The measure, intended to help the state's horse racing industry recapture gambling dollars lost to casinos, would also allow phone betting.
 
PUBLIC RECORDS
 
The Assembly passed a bill, already approved by the Senate, to strengthen New Jersey's 37-year-old public records law, widely criticized as one of the nation's weakest. The bill would essentially make public all records except personnel files, correspondence and others specifically exempted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY (63%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); SETON HALL UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAXATION; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS BUDGETS (92%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (91%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); VETO (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (72%); SUBURBS (71%); DRIVER EDUCATION (71%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); INFLATION (70%); 

PERSON: WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV); HALBFINGER, DAVID M LEONARD LANCE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



746 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 2578 words

HEADLINE: No Guns Blazing, Just Ideas on Fire

BYLINE: By RICK LYMAN 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, June 29

 BODY:
Here it is, the biggest party of the year, and they cluster together off to the side: the members of the chess team, the guys from the audiovisual club, future physics majors with thick glasses and pocket protectors. Just what are they doing in this room full of quarterbacks and cheerleaders? Who invited them to the party?
Every summer, the major Hollywood studios unleash their biggest, loudest and most expensive and star-studded films into a world of vacationing families and entertainment-hungry teenagers. Tom Cruise hangs from impossible cliffs. Mel Gibson skewers sneering Brits. Jim Carrey rides the wild highway. The rules are simple: cars exist to be chased, guns to be fired, affairs to be consummated, rockets to be launched. Special effects blossom like wildflowers on the prairie. Have sequel, will travel. 
 But off to the side, clustered together, are a growing number of smaller, less heralded movies -- independent features, foreign films, this year's quirky Shakespeare adaptations -- that somehow find themselves battling it out in the nation's theaters with the big Hollywood quarterbacks. In these movies, cars exist to be driven, guns to be deplored, affairs to be analyzed and rockets? Well, there are no rockets. Have subtitles, will travel.
"It used to be, five or six years ago, that the indies would stay out of the summer because of the major studio films," said Amir Malin, the chairman of Artisan Entertainment. "But now, with the success that we and others have had in recent years, that's no longer true."
The nature of the independent films being released has shifted as well. While still offering standard literary adaptations and films by celebrated foreign directors, many distributors have tried to use the summer as a springboard for darker and quirkier movies aimed at a younger audience.
"This summer we've got two comedies, both alternative, both hip," Mr. Malin said. "That's what we like to present to summer audiences: counterprogramming to what exists from the major studios."
But it is not just films for hipsters that the art houses are offering this summer. They are screening foreign epics, character-driven dramas, absurdist satires. "The thing to emphasize is that films like ours go up against Hollywood 52 weeks of the year," said Mark Urman, a co-president of Lions Gate Films. "In fact, the summer is for us a great time. It's the time when Hollywood becomes more mindless than ever."
During the fall and holiday seasons, the Oscar-hungry Hollywood studios put out their prestige films, and there are more movies in the marketplace competing with specialized films from independent-minded distributors like Lions Gate, Miramax, Sony Pictures Classics, Artisan, Fine Line, Paramount Classics, Fox Searchlight, USA Films and others.
"In the darker, colder months, films that reach more sophisticated or more mature moviegoers simply stop selling tickets at a certain hour," Mr. Urman said. "Our audiences go home and watch Charlie Rose and retire, or whatever they do. But in the summer, there is such a vacuum of films of ideas, films of emotions, that we have always looked upon summer as an extraordinary opportunity to have a genuine impact."
Indeed, some of the biggest hits released by independent distributors in recent years have come out during the summer: "Il Postino" in 1994, "Trainspotting" in 1996, "The Full Monty" in 1997 and, of course, "The Blair Witch Project" in 1999.
"My guiding principle on this is that my mother needs something to see," said Mark Gill, the president of Miramax's Los Angeles office. "It's kind of a joke, but it's true as well. The art audience is driven by educated women, middle-aged and up, who want to see movies that do not have big explosions in them."
As recently as four summers ago, Mr. Gill said, 26 films opened in American theaters between mid-May and Labor Day that could be classified as independent or foreign films -- movies given limited releases, usually beginning in New York and Los Angeles and, if they clicked, gradually appearing in an increasing number of cities until no college town was left untouched. For the last two or three years, though, the numbers have shot up to 70 or 75 such films.
"What happened was that there was an explosion of success at the Academy Awards in 1996, when four of the five films nominated for best picture were from independent distributors," Mr. Gill said. "It was evident there was a marvelous business there, if you could be successful at it."
The result, all distributors seem to agree, has been a glut. It is not just your imagination: there are more movie reviews in the paper because there are more and more of these small, limited-release films. While many of the companies that began the independent-film trend in the early 1990's have since given up the ghost, victims of the pitiless economics of a fickle industry, a few have hung on and prospered, and others have merged into larger companies. At the same time, the major Hollywood studios have gotten into the game, either by buying out the independent companies (like Disney's acquisition of Miramax) or starting their own in-house classics division (like Sony Pictures Classics, Fox Searchlight and, most recently, Paramount Classics).
"The problem is that there has not been substantial growth in the size of the audience," Mr. Gill said. "Even films that are successful must make do with less."
So while new companies enter the market, others are putting out fewer films, and there is general agreement that the current pace -- 70 or 75 small films coming out every summer -- won't keep up forever. "It can't last because so many of them are not succeeding," Mr. Gill said.
What keeps people going is that, first, a small film doesn't have to be a mass-audience hit to turn a profit; it can make do with less. "We can make $1.5 million on a film, and it doesn't sound like a lot of money, compared to the big studio movies, but in our world, it's a success," said David Dinerstein, a co-president of Paramount Classics. And if it somehow does click and, like "Full Monty" or "Blair Witch," cross over into a mainstream audience, the profits are amazing.
"With 'Red Violin,' we had a movie that spoke to a certain audience that is underserved in the summer," Mr. Urman said. "It made $10 million. I know that by certain standards, that can be one Saturday for a Tom Cruise movie. But by independent film standards, that's a breakout; that's a crossover success. And it's not necessary for our kind of films to satisfy everyone. In fact, it is intrinsic in their design that they won't."
The other factor in the success of a smaller film is that it is, by definition, not released in the same way as a big summer movie. For something like "Dinosaur" or "The Perfect Storm," thousands of prints are put into thousands of theaters all over the country, and millions of dollars are spent on marketing campaigns to insure a huge opening weekend. Smaller films are released more gradually, beginning in the largest markets, then spreading slowly. If the film finds its audience, it can run through the entire summer. A big Hollywood movie, even a substantial success, can substantially burn out in less than a month.
Marcy Granata, president for publicity and corporate communications at Miramax, said that instead of spending a lot of money to generate excitement over one huge opening, smaller distributors must stage a series of small-scale openings, each week trying to attract the attention of a new crop of local critics and talk show hosts. "We call it sticking to the knitting," Ms. Granata said. "You treat the opening in Boston as if it were a national opening. The local, grass-roots effort becomes very, very primary."
Miramax's "Hamlet," for instance -- the version starring Ethan Hawke and set in modern-day Manhattan -- opened on May 12 in New York and Los Angeles. The next week, it expanded to the top 10 cities. On May 26, it went to the top 20 cities and, on June 9, to the top 40. In recent weeks, it began to expand into the larger college towns, like New Haven. "You hope for 16 to 20 weeks in theaters," Mr. Gill said. "It used to be you could count on that. But it's so much more competitive now. So few of these movies are successful, it's just ridiculous."
 
Shakespeare, Suicide, Sexual Confusion
 
Here is a sampling of independent and foreign films currently in theaters or scheduled to open this summer. Opening dates may change.
 
Currently in Theaters
 
 "AMERICAN PSYCHO." Mary Harron, director of the 1996 "I Shot Andy Warhol," takes a satiric swing at Bret Easton Ellis's novel about a killer yuppie.
 
 "BORICUA'S BOND." Val Lik directs Frankie Negron in a story about a young artist at work and play in the South Bronx.
 
 "THE BUTTERFLY." Jose Luis Cuerda directs Fernando Fernan Gomez in this Spanish story of a man's friendship with a boy during the Spanish Civil War.
 
 "CROUPIER." Mike Hodges, who made the 1971 British thriller "Get Carter," directs Clive Owen as a casino worker who falls into the clutches of a femme fatale.
 
 "GROOVE." The writer and director Greg Harrison takes an all-night tour of the rave scene in San Francisco.
 
 "JESUS' SON." Alison Maclean directs Billy Crudup and Samantha Morton in a story about an addict trying to reform.
 
 "HAMLET." The director Michael Almereyda takes a fresh swing at Shakespeare's tragedy, setting it in modern-day Manhattan. The prince becomes a downtown filmmaker in the form of Ethan Hawke. Kyle MacLachlan and Bill Murray join in.
 
 "LOVE'S LABOUR'S LOST." Kenneth Branagh turns Shakespeare's comedy into a semi-musical with a Cole Porter flavor.
 
 "SUNSHINE." Ralph Fiennes plays a member of three different generations of a Jewish family in war-torn Europe in this sprawling epic from the director Istvan Szabo, best known for 1981's "Mephisto."
 
 "TRIXIE." Alan Rudolph brings an ensemble cast including Emily Watson, Nick Nolte and Nathan Lane to this noirish comedy about a female detective.
 
 "UP AT THE VILLA." Philip Haas, who directed the 1995 "Angels and Insects," adapted this Somerset Maugham story with Kristin Scott Thomas and Sean Penn.
 
 "THE VIRGIN SUICIDES." Sofia Coppola directs Kirsten Dunst and Kathleen Turner in an adaptation of Jeffrey Eugenides's novel about suburban teenage ennui.
 
Opening Next Friday
 
 "ALL THE RAGE." Before directing the recent IMAX hit "Michael Jordan: To the Max," James D. Stern made this film about the dangers of guns, starring Joan Allen and Andre Braugher.
 
 "BUT I'M A CHEERLEADER." Jamie Babbit directs Natasha Lyonne (one of the romantic interests in last summer's "American Pie") and Cathy Moriarty in a farce about a teenager sent to a camp intended to "cure" lesbianism.
 
 "SHOWER." A Chinese film, with subtitles, from the director Yang Zhang about a man who runs a bathhouse in Beijing and his reunion with his son.
 
Opening July 14
 
 "CHUCK AND BUCK." Miguel Arteta directs Mike White and Chris Weitz in this comedy, shot on digital videotape, about a young, immature man trying to re-establish a relationship with an old friend.
 
 "THE FIVE SENSES." The director Jeremy Podeswa's multicharacter drama has intertwined stories involving the senses. (There is an old man going deaf, a voyeur, a masseuse, etc.)
 
 "THE WISDOM OF CROCODILES." Jude Law plays a vampire in London in this English-language story from the Chinese director Po-Chih Leong.
 
Opening July 21
 
 "ALICE ET MARTIN." Andre Techine, the director of "Les Voleurs" in 1996, returns with this French romance starring Juliette Binoche and Alexis Loret.
 
 "CRIMINAL LOVERS." Francois Ozon directs Natacha Regnier as a femme fatale on the prowl in this French drama.
 
Opening July 28
 
 "THE GIRL ON THE BRIDGE." Daniel Auteuil is a circus knife-thrower who recruits his assistants from among those attempting suicide. In French and black-and-white, from the director Patrice Leconte.
 
 "THE EYES OF TAMMY FAYE." A sly documentary from Fenton Bailey, Randy Barbain and Randy Barbato about the former television evangelist, including cameos by her ex-husband, Jim Bakker; Pat Boone; and Roseanne. RuPaul narrates.
 
 "WONDERLAND." The British director Michael Winterbottom (the 1997 "Welcome to Sarajevo") directs a drama about three sisters that tries to give a portrait of modern-day, multi-ethnic London.
 
Opening Aug. 4
 
 "PSYCHO BEACH PARTY." Robert Lee King directs an adaptation of Charles Busch's campy play, which Mr. Busch adapted for the screen and in which he also appears.
 
 "RESTLESS." Set in modern-day Beijing among a group of multinational friends. Jule Gilfillan directs.
 
 "SAVING GRACE." Nigel Cole directs Brenda Blethyn in a comedy about a middle-class British woman who is persuaded to grow and sell marijuana to maintain her sprawling house.
 
 "THE TAO OF STEVE." Three friends have dreamed up what they think is a foolproof theory of dating, based on the teachings of Laotzu, Heidegger and Groucho Marx. A first-timer, Jenniphr Goodman, directs Donal Logue.
 
 "THE TIC CODE." Gary Winick directs Gregory Hines and Christopher George Marquette in the story of a musical prodigy suffering from Tourette's syndrome.
 
Opening Aug. 11
 
 "AIMEE AND JAGUAR." The German director Max Ferberbock directs a lesbian romance set during the Battle of Berlin.
 
 "CECIL B. DEMENTED." John Waters returns with a film about a filmmaker (Stephen Dorff) who kidnaps a famous actress (Melanie Griffith) and forces her to perform in his underground films.
 
 "AN AFFAIR OF LOVE." A Belgian-French film whose original title ("Une Liaison Pornographique") was originally translated as "A Pornographic Affair." From the director Frederic Fonteyne and starring Nathalie Baye and Sergi Lopez, it's about, well, a pornographic affair.
 
Opening Aug. 18
 
 "ABOUT ADAM." Gerard Stembridge directs Stuart Townsend as a young man in working-class Ireland who seems too perfect to three sisters, and turns out to be just that.
 
 "LOVE AND SEX." Valerie Breiman directs Famke Janssen as a magazine writer assigned (along the lines of "Sex and the City") to explain the difference between love and sex, a task that reunites her with her long-lost boyfriend (Jon Favreau).
 
Opening Aug. 25
 
 "THE BALLAD OF RAMBLIN' JACK." Aiyana Elliott directs a documentary about her estranged father, the musician Jack Elliott.
 
 "GOAT ON FIRE AND SMILING FISH." A first-time director, Kevin Jordan, directs two brothers, Derick and Steve Martini, who play the American Indian characters of the title.
 
 "JUST ONE TIME." Lane Janger directs Guillermo Diaz and Jennifer Esposito in a story about a couple experimenting with menage a trois.
 
 "MAD ABOUT MAMBO." A high school student tries to improve his soccer skills by studying mambo. Romance ensues. John Forte directs.
 
 "SKIPPED PARTS." Jennifer Jason Leigh escapes from her dominating father to rural Wyoming. Tamara Davis directs.
 
 "SOLOMON AND GAENOR." The story, in English and Welsh, of a Jewish man's romance with a Welsh woman in 1911 Wales. Paul Morrison directs Ioan Gruffudd and Nia Roberts.
 
 "STEAL THIS MOVIE!" Vincent D'Onofrio plays the 1960's Yippie leader Abbie Hoffman, and Janeane Garofalo plays his wife in this biopic directed by Robert Greenwald.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: The darker and quirkier films of summer: Brittany Murphy and Nick Nolte in "Trixie," top; Ralph Fiennes and Rachel Weisz in "Sunshine," lower left; and Jude Law and Elina Lowensohn in "The Wisdom of Crocodiles," which opens on July 14. (Top, Joyce Rudolph/Sony Pictures Classics; above left, Paramount Classics; above right, Roberta Parkin/Miramax Films)(pg. E1); Alexis Loret and Juliette Binoche, top, star in "Alice et Martin"; Vincent D'Onofrio and Janeane Garofalo, above, in "Steal This Movie!" (Top, USA Films; bottom, David Milne/Lions Gate Films)(pg. E14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: USA FILMS (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); FILM GENRES (76%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (71%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (63%); 

PERSON: LYMAN, RICK TOM CRUISE (56%); JIM CARREY (56%); JULIETTE BINOCHE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



747 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Page 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 1373 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW;
Instant Calamity (Just Add Water)

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
TO put it bluntly, "The Perfect Storm" is no "Titanic."
This gusty oceanic epic, directed by Wolfgang Petersen ("Air Force One," "Das Boot") from Sebastian Junger's best-selling book, has lollapalooza special effects and gripping ensemble performances. But its quotient of human drama is finally too stingy for the personal stories of a group of New England fisherman battling "the storm of the century" to hit the emotional bull's-eye. When in its final scenes the movie desperately tries to churn up some of the celestial schmaltz of "Titanic," it is too little too late and feels obligatory despite the abundance of heart and chemistry that Mark Wahlberg and Diane Lane bring to their roles of a wildly-in-love young couple. 
 The film's central character (like the book's) isn't a person but an actual storm that blew up the New England coast on Halloween in 1991. But as much as we try to humanize meteorological disasters by naming hurricanes and deciphering their personalities through their histories, storms ultimately don't have feelings or even intentions. Or at least this one doesn't in its movie incarnation. The Weather Channel does a better, more thorough and soberer job of personalizing garden-variety hurricanes than does "The Perfect Storm," which relies on reiterated hyperbole to convey the force of its monster while withholding the kind of detailed meteorological information that might have generated more suspense.
Hollywood, for all its wondrous special effects, has never been able to get a firm grip on the weather. As impressive as some of its special effects may be, "The Perfect Storm" (like "Twister" before it) fails to convey the weather's changing moods and the ominously majestic march of events that signal inclement weather. The story follows the fateful voyage of a swordfishing boat, the Andrea Gail, into the North Atlantic as three storms collide offshore and combine to ignite a meteorological explosion.
Once the movie leaves the shore, a story that began as a richly hued mosaic of life in a New England fishing town (Gloucester, Mass.) quickly succumbs to its own technological wizardry and becomes waterlogged. "The Perfect Storm" is so eager for its big waves to arrive as soon as possible that it shoehorns in what feels like an extraneous subplot, lifted from the book, about the rescue of another vessel and the crash of a Coast Guard helicopter. Although these sequences are meant to prepare us for the storm that has yet to overtake the Andrea Gail, they are little more than distracting adventure filler whose characters aren't even introduced, and therefore they mean nothing.
Anonymity is also a big problem in the movie's middle and later portions, a nearly continuous din of wind and water in which the boat's crew members all but disappear under their slickers while desperately trying to keep their vessel afloat. Every so often the movie hurriedly flashes to shore, where the crew's loved ones huddle around their television sets waiting for news. But the film is so impatient to return to its special effects that these scenes have little resonance.
As the movie repeats the images of wind and waves over and over, it begins to dawn that the storm in progress is simply too large an event for the movie to take in. Drowned out by the simulated roar of nature (reinforced by James Horner's mediocre, obtrusively pounding score), much of the shipboard dialogue is unintelligible. Even when daring individual rescues are carried out, it's difficult to tell who's saving whom.
The endless visual whoosh also makes it hard to keep up with the emergency navigational procedures that prevent the boat from breaking apart. And when we don't know quite what's happening, the crew's hard-won victories seem hollow. After a while the unending tumult simply becomes monotonous.
Although a few tilting shots suggest a boat pitching in the waves, the camera remains level throughout most of the storm, so you rarely have a sense of being tossed about on the ocean. In other words, a dose of Dramamine before the movie is not necessary. In denying us any sense of stomach-churning chaos, the movie keeps the violence at such a far remove that it rarely feels especially scary.
The money shots are parceled out as carefully (and as parsimoniously) as the movie's personal dramas. The most awesome (familiar from the movie's ubiquitous trailer) comes very late and portrays the boat's head-first climb into a looming 90-foot mountain of water. It is the one stunner in a movie that could have done with two or three more knockout visuals.
In the end "The Perfect Storm" feels like two movies grafted together. The first third is a glowing portrait of Gloucester and the salty, roughneck flavor of its fishing industry. In a series of short but pungent scenes, we meet its fishermen and are introduced to the risky, competitive, low-paying enterprise of swordfish harvesting.
The movie's vision of this life is unabashedly romantic but convincing, thanks largely to Bill Wittliff's economical screenplay, which keeps its ear attuned to the Yankee dialect. When a fleet arrives back at port, the women ecstatically pour out of their homes to greet their men on the docks, and the town begins to pulse. The sight of tipsy couples in a waterfront bar joyously swaying in each other's arms to the lusty strains of Bruce Springsteen's "Hungry Heart" produces a pang of longing to embrace this elemental livelihood and the working-class solidarity that goes with it.
The movie's Romeo and Juliet, Bobby Shatford (Mr. Wahlberg), a divorced, financially troubled fisherman, and his adoring fiancee, Christina (Ms. Lane), may no longer be teenagers, but they exude the radiant passion of high school sweethearts. These lovers give the movie most of its warmth.
Although George Clooney has a more substantial role as the boat's captain, Billy Tyne, the character remains an enigma. Mr. Clooney conveys a darkly heroic gravity, but his lack of even a trace of a New England accent makes him seem socially out of place in a cast whose other members get the regional dialect more or less right. The movie tentatively teases us with the possibility that Billy, who has had a run of disappointing catches, will become involved with Linda Greenlaw (Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio), a fellow fisherman who has her own boat and has had a string of good luck.
Had the movie envisaged a "Moby-Dick"-like struggle between Billy and the superstorm into which he steers the Andrea Gail with a reckless determination, "The Perfect Storm" might have accrued some heavy allegorical weight. Certainly Mr. Clooney's Billy, with his glowering dark-circled eyes, ruddy, stubbled face and air of impermeable masculinity, suggests a man peering challengingly into the eye of fate. But "The Perfect Storm" misses its opportunity to evoke a metaphysical struggle, and it is much the poorer for it.
In its most solemn moments "Titanic" plunged us into a panorama of death, surrounding us with shipwrecked passengers moaning and crying as they slowly froze in the North Atlantic water. In the one comparable image in "The Perfect Storm" the camera slowly pulls from a lone man in the ocean to observe him from afar, a speck of life bobbing helplessly on the heaving waves. It's only a glimpse of eternity, and not nearly enough to stir up the awe that is missing from the heart of the film.
"The Perfect Storm" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has some strong language and sexual situations.
 
THE PERFECT STORM
 
Directed by Wolfgang Petersen; written by Bill Wittliff, based on the book by Sebastian Junger; director of photography, John Seale; edited by Richard Francis-Bruce; music by James Horner; production designer, William Sandell; produced by Paula Weinstein, Mr. Petersen and Gail Katz; released by Warner Brothers. Running time: 150 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.
 
WITH: George Clooney (Capt. Billy Tyne), Mark Wahlberg (Bobby Shatford), Diane Lane (Christina Cotter), William Fichtner (Sully), Karen Allen (Melissa Brown), Allen Payne (Alfred Pierre), Bob Gunton (Alexander McAnally III), Mary Elizabeth Mastrantonio (Linda Greenlaw) and John C. Reilly (Murph).
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mark Wahlberg, left, and George Clooney in "The Perfect Storm." (Claudette Barius/Warner Brothers Pictures)(pg. E1); All the force of nature that Hollywood can muster: The Andrea Gail battles the elements in "The Perfect Storm," directed by Wolfgang Petersen. (Industrial Light and Magic/Warner Brothers Pictures)(pg. E14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PERFECT STORM, THE (MOVIE)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WEATHER CHANNEL (55%); NEW ENGLAND (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS WEATHER (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); HURRICANES (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); FILM (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); BESTSELLERS (72%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (58%); HALLOWEEN (52%); 

PERSON: CLOONEY, GEORGE; WAHLBERG, MARK; JUNGER, SEBASTIAN; PETERSEN, WOLFGANG; HOLDEN, STEPHEN GEORGE CLOONEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000



748 of 748 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 2000 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: June 30, 2000

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Page 44; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk

LENGTH: 2749 words

HEADLINE: A Salute to the Fourth;
SPARE TIMES

 BODY:

ON THE STREET
 
 ROCKAWAY BOARDWALK ARTS AND CRAFTS FAIR, Boardwalk at 116th Street, Queens. Tomorrow through Tuesday, 11 a.m. to dusk. Sponsored by the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation. 

 WOODSIDE AVENUE FESTIVAL, from Roosevelt Avenue to 65th Place, Queens. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by Woodside on the Move.
 
 GREENWICH AVENUE CHAMBER FESTIVAL, from Avenue of the Americas to Eighth Avenue. Tomorrow, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the Greenwich Avenue Chamber of Commerce.
 
 12TH 52 ASSOCIATION JAZZ FESTIVAL, 52d Street, from Lexington to Seventh Avenues. Live entertainment, crafts, food and antiques. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Sponsored by the 52 Association for the Handicapped Inc.
 
 BROOKLYN AVENUE L FESTIVAL, between Rockaway Parkway and Remsen Avenue, Canarsie. Sunday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Sponsored by the Guy M. Stewart Cancer Fund.
 
EVENTS
 
New York City
 
 "STRIPES AND STARS: A VISUAL HISTORY OF AN AMERICAN ICON," American Institute of Graphic Arts, 164 Fifth Avenue, at 21st Street. An exhibition of items that incorporate the design of the flag, from buttons to cowboy boots. Through Aug. 25. Hours: Monday through Friday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; closed July 4. Free admission. Information: (212) 627-1455.
 
 29TH INTERNATIONAL AFRICAN ARTS FESTIVAL, Boys and Girls High School Field, 1700 Fulton Street, at Utica Avenue, Bushwick, Brooklyn. An outdoor celebration with music, dance, comedy, food and a fashion show. Today through Tuesday, 10 a.m. to midnight. Admission: $7; $2 for children under 12 and the elderly; free for all on Monday before 4 p.m. Information: (718) 638-6700.
 
 "HIGHLIGHTS OF HEROES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION," Lower Manhattan. A walking tour that covers the history of the city as an English colony and during the Revolutionary War, with visits to sites of importance in the lives of Washington, Jefferson, Alexander Hamilton and others. Today at 6 p.m.; tomorrow at 10 a.m., noon and 2 p.m.; Sunday at 1 and 3 p.m.; Monday at 10 a.m., noon and 2, 4 and 6 p.m.; July 4 at 9 and 11 a.m. and 1, 3 and 5 p.m. Fee: $5. Sponsored by Gotham Walk. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 629-1886.
 
 REVOLUTIONARY WAR SITES, Lower Manhattan. A walking tour of sites like "the Common," where the Declaration of Independence was first read aloud to New Yorkers, the original location of headquarters for both American and British generals and the statue of Nathan Hale. Meets tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the northwest corner of Warren Street and Broadway. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Fee, $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.
 
 "GEORGE WASHINGTON, GENERAL AND PRESIDENT," Lower Manhattan. A walking tour past sites where Washington was inaugurated, lived, worshiped and bade farewell to his officers. Meets tomorrow at 1 p.m. at the intersection of Rector Street and Broadway. Sponsored by Adventure on a Shoestring. Fee: $5. Information: (212) 265-2663.
 
 RADICAL NEW YORK HISTORY AND ARCHITECTURE, Greenwich Village. A walking tour of sites prominent in radical history, including Emma Goldman's house and headquarters of the Catholic Workers and Cooper Union. Meets Sunday at 2:30 P.M. at the Peace Building, 339 Lafayette Street. Contributions accepted. Information: (718) 264-3021.
 
 "REVOLUTIONARY MANHATTAN: A CITY OF 26,000," Lower Manhattan. A discussion about the area as it appeared in 1776. Meets tomorrow at 11 a.m. on the northwest corner of State and Whitehall Streets. Fee, $15. Sponsored by Century Walking Tours. Information: (201) 433-0946.
 
 "ABRAHAM LINCOLN'S NEW YORK" AND "GEORGE WASHINGTON'S NEW YORK," Lower Manhattan. Two walking tours. The first, covering sites visited by Lincoln in the mid-1800's, meets tomorrow at 2 and 6 p.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 36 Park Row, across from City Hall Park. The second, covers sites in Lower Manhattan known to the first president, meets Sunday at 2 and 6 p.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant. Fee for each, $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
 "THE TORY STORY IN LOWER MANHATTAN." A walking tour of pre-Revolutionary New York City through the eyes of British subjects. Led by Joyce Gold. Meets Sunday at 1 p.m. in front of Trinity Church, Wall Street and Broadway. Fee: $12. Information: (212) 242-5762.
 
 "A CELEBRATION OF AMERICAN MUSIC," St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue and 51st Street. Bernstein's "Chichester Psalms," Piccolo's Canterbury Mass and Rorem's "O Deus, Ego Amo Te," performed by the church choir, the Boy and Girl Choristers and the church's chamber orchestra; William Trafka, conductor; Stephen Tharp and Vincent Edwards, organists. Sunday at 11 a.m. Donations accepted. Information: (212) 378-0227.
 
 "REVOLUTIONARY MANHATTAN: THE LEGEND OF MARGARET CORBIN," Fort Washington. A tour that looks at the area's involvement in the Revolution with a discussion of Corbin, who took up arms with the colonists and was wounded in a battle in 1776. Meets Sunday at 11 a.m. at the south token booth of the 207th Street subway stop of the A train. Fee: $15. Sponsored by Century Walking Tours. Information: (201) 433-0946.
 
 INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATION, Historic Richmondtown, 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmondtown, Staten Island. With games, food and a civil war encampment. Sunday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission, $4; $2.50 for children 6 to 16 years old and the elderly; free for children under 6 and members. Information: (718) 351-1611.
 
 "GEORGE WASHINGTON'S FLUSHING," Queens. Traces his visits in the late 1700's on shopping trips for his home in Mount Vernon. Meets Monday at 10 a.m. outside the Flushing branch of the Queensborough Public Library, Kissena Boulevard and Main Street. Fee, $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
 "WASHINGTON AND ABRAHAM LINCOLN IN BROOKLYN," sites of importance to the presidents in Manhattan and Brooklyn, with a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge. Meets Monday at 2 p.m. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 36 Park Row, across from City Hall Park. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888) 377-4455.
 
 LADY WINDRIDGE FIREWORKS CRUISE, Chelsea Pier 59, West 23rd Street and the Hudson River. A four-hour cruise with meal, music and dancing. Boards July 4 at 6:30 p.m.; sails from 7 to 11 p.m. Tickets: $375. Reservations: (212) 932-3333.
 
 TOMMY'S AMERICAN RUNNING SERIES, Central Park. A four-mile run and races for children. July 4 at 9 a.m. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners Club. Advance registration fee: $17; $12 for club members; $10 for junior and senior members. Same-day registration: $22; $15 for members; $12 for junior and senior club members; kids' race fee, $6; $4 for members. Information: (212) 860-4455.
 
 "AN AMERICAN CATHEDRAL: AN INDEPENDENCE DAY TOUR," Cathedral of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue and West 112th Street, Morningside Heights. A free tour of church spaces with American connotations, including the Poets Corner with stained glass windows depicting Betsy Ross and Francis Scott Key. July 4 at 11 a.m. Information: (212) 932-7347.
 
 REVOLUTIONARY NEW YORK, Lower Manhattan. A walking tour of sites associated with George Washington, including Fraunces Tavern, Federal Hall and places where Washington really did sleep. Meets July 4 at 1 P.M. at Broadway and Murray Street. Sponsored by Big Onion Walking Tours. Fee: $12; $10 for students and the elderly. Information: (212) 439-1090.
 
 "JEWISH PATRIOTS AND TORIES OF THE AMERICAN REVOLUTION," Lower Manhattan. A walking tour that celebrates the contribution Jews to the building of the country. Meets July 4 at 11 A.M. inside Blimpie's Restaurant, 38 Park Row, between Spruce and Beekman Streets. Fee: $12. Sponsored by Dr. Phil: New York Talks and Walks. Information: (888)377-4455.
 
 PRE-FIREWORKS CIVIL WAR TOUR AND OPERATION SAIL VIEWING, Lower Manhattan. A tour of Civil War sites, including a Confederate prison camp and a stop on the Underground Railroad, with a viewing of the tall ships parade on July 4. Tomorrow at 2 and 5 p.m. Also Sunday, Monday and July 4, same times. Fee: $12. Sponsored by NYC Discovery Tours. Information: (212) 465-3331.
 
Hudson Valley
 
 ALL-AMERICAN PICNIC, Boscobel Restoration, 1601 Route 9D, Garrison. With a reading of the Declaration of Independence, entertainment and food. Sunday, 11:30 a.m. to 3:30 p.m. Admission: $20; $8 for children 4 to 13. Picnic with performance of "Measure for Measure," by the Hudson Valley Shakespeare Festival, at 6 p.m. Admission: $45; children 13 and younger, $22. Reservations: (845) 265-3638. The play runs through July 30. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m; Sunday at 6 p.m. Show tickets only: $17 to $30. Information: (845) 265-7858.
 
 FEEL THE BEAT, Lasdon Park and Arboretum, Route 35, Somers. Featuring Ti Ayiti, a Haitian drum and dance troupe. Tomorrow at 6 p.m.; gates open for picnicking at 5. Tickets: $10; $3 for children 18 and younger. Information: (914) 693-5595.
 
 PLAYLAND PARK, Exit 19 of Interstate 95, Rye. Tonight and tomorrow, noon to midnight. Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursday, noon to 11 p.m. Also Monday from noon to midnight. Admission: free. Rides require 3 to 6 tickets each; 12-ticket book, $8; 24-ticket book, $15; 36-ticket book, $19. Parking: weekdays, $4; weekends, $5; holidays, $7. Fireworks displays Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday at 9:15 p.m. (914) 925-2700.
 
 GREAT AMERICAN WEEKEND, Goshen. Featuring car shows, entertainment, walking tours, food and exhibits. Tomorrow, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m. and Sunday, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Information: (877) 496-4869.
 
 SALUTE TO AMERICA CONCERT, Shaker Museum and Library, 88 Shaker Museum road, Old Chatham. A performance by the Columbia Festival Orchestra featuring Copland's "Lincoln Portrait," with narration by Al Roker. Tomorrow at 6 p.m. Tickets, $20, $15 advance; free for children under 18. Information: (518) 392-7198.
 
 KENSICO DAM MUSIC FESTIVAL, north end of Bronx River Parkway, Valhalla. Monday. Gates open at 5 p.m. for picnicking. Concert begins at 7, featuring Dixieland and samba music. Free. Information: (914) 242-7275.
 
 INDEPENDENCE DAY CELEBRATION, St. Paul's Church National Historic Site, 897 South Columbus Avenue, Mount Vernon. With music, speeches, a reading of the Declaration of Independence and refreshments. Tuesday beginning at 10 a.m. Costumed demonstration of "Pell's Point: The Battle that Saved Washington's Army" Wednesday at 12:15 p.m. Both free. Information: (914) 667-4116.
 
 CELEBRATE INDEPENDENCE DAY OF 1855, Sunnyside, West Sunnyside Lane (off Route 9), Tarrytown. With games, a pie-judging contest, town ball game, children's lawn games, music and dancing. Tuesday from 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $8; $7 for the elderly; $4 for children 5 to 17; free for children under 5. Picnicking allowed. Information: (914) 591-8763.
 
 MUSIC UNDER THE STARS, Trophy Point Amphitheater, West Point. A performance by the United States Military Academy Band of Glenn Miller music. Sunday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Information: (845) 938-2617.
 
New Jersey
 
 PNC BANK ARTS CENTER, Exit 116, off the Garden State Parkway, Holmdel. Jimmy Page and the Black Crowes. Today at 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $33 to $87. The Who. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets: $87. Britney Spears. Sunday and July 3 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets: $44.50. Information: (201) 507-8900.
 
 "STAR-SPANGLED BRASS," Stockton Performing Arts Center, Jim Leeds Road, Pomona (Exit 44, Garden State Parkway). Featuring the River City Brass Band. Sunday at 4 p.m. Tickets: $18 and $24. Information: (609) 652-4527.
 
 "CARMEN," McCarter Theater, 91 University Place, Princeton. Presented by the Opera Festival of New Jersey. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets: $24 to $82. Information: (609) 258-2787.
 
 NEW JERSEY SHAKESPEARE FESTIVAL, F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, 36 Madison Avenue, Madison. "The Forest," a comedy by Alexander Ostrovsky. Through Sunday. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 2 p.m. Tickets: $24 to $38. Information: (973) 408-5600.
 
 PLAYS IN THE PARK "A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum." The musical. Tonight and tomorrow at 8:30 p.m. Tickets: $3; free for children under 13. Stephen J. Capestro Theater, Roosevelt Park, off Route 1 South, Edison. Information: (732) 548-2884.
 
 "THEATER OF LIGHT: JERSEY CITY," a light show featuring painted images by Rudi Stern, to be projected onto the facade of the Hartz Mountain Industries building, 90 Hudson Street. Monday through July 9, sundown to 1 a.m. Visible in lower Manhattan along the Hudson River from Battery Park City to 23rd Street. Sponsored by the Jersey City Economic Development Corporation.
 
 "AN ALL-AMERICAN CELEBRATION WITH THE NEW JERSEY SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA" Two concerts in the free Chase Manhattan Bank Summer Pops Tour. Tonight at 7:30 at Brookdale Park in Bloomfield/ Montclair, entrance on Watchung Avenue in Bloomfield; tomorrow at 7:30 p.m. at Mercer County Park, Route 535 (Old Trenton Road), West Windsor. Information: (973) 624-3713.
 
 MEADOWLANDS FAIR Giants Stadium, Meadowlands Sports Complex, Route 3, East Rutherford. Rides, food and games. Through July 9. Hours: Mondays through Thursdays, 6 p.m. to 1 a.m.; Fridays, 6 p.m. to 2 a.m.; Saturdays, noon to 2 a.m.; Sundays, noon to midnight. Tickets: $6 (Mondays through Fridays); $8 (Saturdays and Sundays); $3 for children under 12 (Mondays through Fridays); $4 (Saturdays and Sundays); free for children under 34 inches tall. Parking: $2. Information: (201) 933-0199.
 
Connecticut
 
 MUSIC AND FIREWORKS, Meadowbrook Golf Course, 2761 Dixwell Avenue, Hamden. Featuring the Hamden Wind Symphony. Tonight at 7; rain date, tomorrow. Free.
 
 ROY BOOKBINDER, Buttonwood Tree, 605 Main Street, Middletown. Blues guitarist. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Donation: $10. Information: (860) 347-4957.
 
 77th ROUND HILL HIGHLAND SCOTTISH GAMES, Cranbury Park, Grumman Avenue, Norwalk. With music, competitions and food. Tomorrow, 9 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission, $10; $5 for children and the elderly. Information: (203) 324-1094.
 
 INDEPENDENCE DAY POPS CONCERT OF AMERICAN MUSIC, Harkness Memorial State Park, off Route 1 north, Waterford. Featuring the Connecticut Orchestra, with fireworks. Tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets, $28 to $33; lawn seats, $16.50, $15 in advance; children under 12, half-price; free under age 5. Picnicking allowed. Information: (860) 444-7373.
 
 FOURTH OF JULY FIREWORKS CONCERT, Ives Concert Park, Western Connecticut State University, Westside campus, Danbury. Ridgefield Symphony Orchestra, with Frank Tenaglia, tenor. Tuesday at 7 p.m. Reserved seats, $35; lawn seats, $25; children ages 3 to 12, $10. Information: (203) 837-9226.
 
 NEW HAVEN INDEPENDENCE DAY CONCERT WITH FIREWORKS, Long Wharf Park, Long Wharf Drive, Exit 46 off Interstate 95, New Haven. Tuesday at 7:30 p.m. Free. Information: (203) 946-7821.
 
 25TH SHELBY AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE CLUB NATIONAL CONVENTION, Lime Rock Park, 497 Lime Rock Road, Lakeville. One thousand championship cars produced by Carroll Shelby from 1961 to 1970, exhibited on Sunday, and auto racing on Monday. Hours: Sunday, 8:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Monday, 8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Admission: $15 a day. Information: (800) 722-3577.
 
 BASEBALL, New Britain Stadium, New Britain. Class AA : New Britain Rockcats vs. Norwich Navigators. Sunday at 2 p.m. and Monday at 7 p.m. Admission: $3.75; children, $1.25. Information: (860) 224-8383.
 
Long Island
 
 BETTY BUCKLEY, Guild Hall, John Drew Theater, Main Street, East Hampton. Tonight and tomorrow at 8 p.m. Tickets: $65. Information: (631) 324-4050.
 
 PORT JEFFERSON FESTIVAL, Terryville Road. Today through Monday, 6 p.m to midnight. Sponsored by the Port Jefferson Lions Club. Information: (631) 331-2832.
 
 GARDEN TOUR, Shelter Island. Tomorrow, 2 to 5 p.m. Benefit for the Shelter Island Education Foundation. Admission: $25 for all five gardens. Information: (631) 749-2352.
 
 "FIRECRACKER 8K RUN," Agawam Park, Southampton. Sunday at 9 a.m. Sponsored by the Southhampton Rotary Club. Admission: $20. Information: (631) 726-4580.
 
 4K RUN, Riverside Boardwalk, Long Beach. July 4 at 8:45 a.m., preceded at 8:30 by a 1k run for children. Fee: $20. Information: (516) 431-3890.
 
 5K RUN, Miller Avenue School, Shoreham. Tuesday at 8:30 a.m. Fee: $14. Information: (631) 821-8116.
 
http://www.nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Ronald Searle)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INSTITUTE FOR FOREIGN STUDY (56%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF GRAPHIC ARTS (55%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF GRAPHIC ARTS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF GRAPHIC ARTS (55%); AMERICAN INSTITUTE OF GRAPHIC ARTS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES FESTIVALS (91%); CALENDARS (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); DANCE (78%); HISTORIC SITES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); VISUAL ARTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%); FASHION SHOWS (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2000

 
