

801 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; FINANCIAL AID MERIT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Help for the Not So Needy

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
MIDDLE-INCOME parents are being squeezed more than ever these days -- higher property taxes and cost of living, lower home equity, frozen salaries. Many no longer have enough savings and borrowing power to keep up with rising education costs.
Consider this run-through of the federal financial-aid form: a family making $75,000 a year might have to pay about $10,000 a year toward the cost of college before qualifying for need-based aid. With income of $150,000, the expected family contribution is $35,000 to $40,000. Student loans loom. 
''We certainly have found that with the recession in recent years, many middle-income families and even some higher-income families are looking for more aid,'' says Earl D. Retif, vice president for enrollment management at Tulane University in New Orleans.
Rather than lose bright students to less-expensive public colleges, universities like Tulane offer sizable amounts of aid based mainly on academic promise.
While there are no national statistics post-recession, an Education Department study released last fall showed that the percentage of students receiving merit aid grew so rapidly from 1995 to 2008 that it rivaled the number of students receiving need-based aid.
Recent College Board data from more than 600 nonprofit colleges and universities show that some are giving fewer students more money or stretching their dollars by handing smaller amounts to more students. But others are expanding the number of recipients as well as the amount of their awards.
''Merit aid is one of the few bright lights in college financing now,'' says Bonnie Kerrigan Snyder, a college counselor in Lancaster, Pa., whose new book is titled ''The New College Reality: Make College Work for Your Career.'' She describes how students are allowed to fall in love with a campus, and only later do parents figure out how they will pay for it, if they can. She advises putting financials in the forefront, sprinkling schools that offer generous merit aid on your college wish list. ''Consider the schools that will want you,'' she says. ''That's how you will uncover the best deals.''
Advocates for low-income students have long criticized merit aid, contending that money is more fruitfully spent on those who wouldn't otherwise be able to afford college.
The most exclusive colleges and universities -- the Ivy League, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and liberal arts colleges like Amherst -- don't offer merit aid at all. Grants go only to those deemed to have ''need.''
''Need,'' of course, can be defined in various ways. Last year, families making $180,000 to $200,000 got an average $23,750 in need-based financial aid from Princeton. Harvard is almost as generous.
But for those not getting into Princeton or Harvard (and most of you are not), it's useful to review how much a college awards in average merit aid, and your chances of getting it.
The biggest scholarships come from the most expensive schools, where tuition and fees hover around $40,000 and other costs can add $15,000 or more. But just as critical is the number of recipients. Only about 1 percent of freshmen at Boston College, Skidmore and Johns Hopkins, for example, get merit aid.
The University of Miami, however, awards merit scholarships averaging more than $23,000 a year to almost a quarter of its freshmen, while Tulane promises an average of more than $20,500 annually to a third of its new students. The University of Southern California offers 100 full-tuition scholarships, more than 200 half-tuition scholarships and more than 250 awards equal to one-quarter of its tuition to freshmen each year. The University of Chicago, which often competes with the Ivies for students, gives scholarships that average $10,600 to 16 percent of its freshmen.
Even public universities, despite state budget cuts, continue to offer merit aid to try to build an accomplished student body. Though it is awarding fewer small scholarships, the University of Alabama still provides automatic full-tuition scholarships to both in-state and out-of-state students who hit high levels on their standardized admission tests.
''A lot of it is done by computer programs to calculate how much aid they need to offer to each student so they can get the maximum number of desirable students without going over their financial aid budget,'' says Mark Kantrowitz, the publisher of FinAid.org and FastWeb.com.
Many regional and religious colleges, he says, also try to ''optimize their revenue'' by offering partial scholarships to the students who can pay the rest of the tuition -- even ''B'' students with an SAT verbal and math score of 1200 or less. Caution: You'll have to maintain a grade-point average of about 2.7 to 3.0 to renew most scholarships after your first year.
Searching with cost in mind means students can't set their hearts on just any college.
''They need to be more realistic in some respects,'' says Deanna L. Voss, the executive director of admissions at the University of Miami, ''and this is so tough for somebody who is 17 years old.'' But, she notes, graduating with less debt will certainly make students happier in the long run.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY YVETTA FEDOROVA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT EXPENSES (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); COST OF LIVING (90%); FAMILY (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); STUDENT LOANS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (73%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); STATISTICS (72%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: TULANE UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); LANCASTER, PA, USA (53%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



802 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE HAGGLER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Running in Circles for a Dell Refund

BYLINE: By DAVID SEGAL

 BODY:
THE service sector is the biggest part of the American economy. So why do so many companies stink at the basics of customer interaction?
It's a question raised whenever the Haggler reads a complaint about Dell, where excellent service -- in the tale that follows and the many others you can read about online -- seems as rare as steak tartare.
Q. I am a small-business owner who has bought dozens of Dell computers over more than eight years. We returned a poorly functioning laptop to Dell in March and have still not received a credit for it, despite its authorizing the return and a dozen frustrating interactions over the last few months. At this point, it does not even respond to our inquiries. Can you give it a shot? Adam Golden 
New Providence, N.J.
A. Mr. Golden sent the Haggler some of his e-mail traffic with Dell, and it is grim reading. Keep in mind that he's just trying to get a refund, with the minor wrinkle that the company credit card he used to buy the laptop has expired. He could still get a refund on that old card, as it happens, or Dell could have sent him a check. But that would be too easy.
In May, after Mr. Golden asked Dell for any news of progress, he read this from a representative named Heather Davis, the same person he had been corresponding with for months:
''Thank you for calling this to my attention. I am looking into this matter for you presently. Do you have your customer number or phone number to help me track this down?''
Come on. Are we really at the ''what's your customer number?'' phase so late in the game? It's like being on a fourth date and hearing ''You're Bob, right?'' over dessert. And this is a customer with a long history of buying Dells. How hard could it have been to get the details she requested?
Once Mr. Golden sent the data, Ms. Davis replied:
''Thanks, Adam. I found it. I am processing what is called a CF025 to get you credited. I will drag any customer care rep who responds to this. I apologize for the delay. Everything was set up correctly but apparently did not process right when the computer returned. Please keep in contact. Because your case is not in my caseload tracker I need your correspondence to keep this at the front of my list.''
If you want to encapsulate what's wrong with Dell's customer service in a few sentences, you can't do much better than this. Ms. Davis needs to ''drag'' a customer care rep into this? Are these people that hard to track down? Are they busy with hobbies?
And the reference to ''any customer care rep'' suggests a certain level of disorder. It reminds the Haggler of a restaurant where he once worked, where the kitchen was so chaotic you had to personally beg one of the cooks to prepare each order.
Then there's the dispiriting ''keep in touch,'' as though Mr. Golden needs to stay on top of this process or it will either stop or go haywire. All because his case is not in Ms. Davis's ''caseload tracker.'' Huh? Why isn't Mr. Golden's case already in her caseload tracker? And would moving it there be so hard?
It goes on, but let us segue into the remedy phase of his minor -- though far too typical -- fiasco.
After an e-mail from the Haggler, a representative from Dell wrote to Mr. Golden to say that his case had been handed to some sort of elite team of service ninjas. Fine. As for an explanation of Dell's woeful performance, a spokeswoman named Jennifer Davis wrote: ''This was an unfortunate case of a representative not following up. We have shared this case as a 'training opportunity' with her manager. We also share with the appropriate management teams any process failures we may believe exist.''
The Haggler wrote back and pointed out the obvious: this is a very lame response. What Dell is doing here is implying that somewhere along the way, an employee messed up, and that once the employee is trained properly, all will be ducky. It's encouraging that ''process failures'' will be shared with ''appropriate management teams,'' but this statement doesn't have the tenor of a company that is ready to embrace a failure and to learn from it.
It's hardly clear that Dell understands how much consumer antipathy it has generated in recent years. Nor is there any evidence that Dell appreciates all the service madness that can be read between the lines of its customer service e-mail.
The Haggler doesn't blame Heather Davis. She seems to be trying. But she's stuck in a lousy system and managed by a company that has little clue about how to treat a customer.
How clueless is Dell? This clueless: Mr. Golden reports that a few days after the company was contacted by the Haggler, he received a voice mail message from a Dell representative, reporting that a refund was in the works. ''I was hoping to speak to you,'' the person said on the message, ''so I could hear the joy in your voice.''
Ponder that one, dear reader. After months of e-mails and calls, after hours of wholly unnecessary typing and talking, Mr. Golden is finally getting what should have been given to him -- and nothing more -- long ago, and without all the irritations. And Dell is expecting joy.
E-mail: haggler@nytimes.com Keep it brief and family-friendly, include your hometown and go easy on the caps-lock key. Letters may be edited for clarity and length.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH HITZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAPTOP COMPUTERS (90%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (69%)

COMPANY: DELL INC (57%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



803 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: A Granddaughter's Journey

BYLINE: By EILEEN McDONNELL. 
As told to Patricia R. Olsen.

 BODY:
ALL four of my grandparents emigrated from Ireland to the United States in their late teens. Like others, they were looking for a better opportunity for themselves and their future generations.
I'm the fourth of six siblings. Being in the middle helped me learn diplomacy. I also had leadership potential, according to my mother. If she had an errand, she would give me the house key to open the door for my brother and sisters.
My senior year in high school, I worked at the public library in town. I stayed until I completed my coursework at Molloy College in Rockville Centre. 
I started in a nursing program at Molloy, but personal computers were becoming popular, so sophomore year I decided to change my major. At the time, you couldn't major in computer science; you had to major in math and minor in it, which I did. I gave up my nursing scholarship to switch, so besides my library job I baby-sat and worked as a cheerleading coach to pay for college.
I started my career in the New York office of Wang Laboratories in 1984. I got my start in leadership when it offered me a supervisory job in administration. While at Wang, I started work on a master's degree in finance and investments at Adelphi University in Garden City.
I left Wang in 1986 to work for Equitable Life Insurance, now AXA Equitable, and finished my master's while there. Although I was only 27, a mentor there lobbied for me to be named a full vice president instead of an assistant vice president, as some executives had suggested. He said I needed the title to be respected, and he won.
The company's earnings were down, so it had devised a plan to cut expenses. I called one branch manager about the plan who said he didn't talk to his wife about how he spent money, and he wasn't about to talk to me about it, either. I said I was going to hang up, call him back and pretend that the conversation never happened. He deferred to me after that.
I also held executive positions at the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America and New England Financial. In 2005, I took a hiatus from corporate life. I was a professor at the American College in Bryn Mawr, Pa. I conducted industry research and published a textbook for marketing financial services products to women. I also started a consulting and executive coaching company and adopted my daughter from Russia. She's 7 now.
When Penn Mutual was looking for a chief marketing officer in 2007, a recruiter called me for leads. Bob Chappell, then C.E.O., asked the recruiter where he was getting the names. When the recruiter told him, Bob asked to meet with me. I hadn't planned to return to corporate life, but I liked what he had to say. I joined Penn Mutual in 2008 as executive vice president and chief marketing officer and became C.E.O. in 2011, when Bob retired.
Although the stock market fell soon after I was hired, I announced at a company leadership meeting that we were not participating in the recession. We avoided some of the pitfalls that other insurance companies faced.
I don't mind being asked repeatedly about women as business leaders. I never saw a glass ceiling. If we educate young girls to expect that they can't perform at the same level as men, they're going to have that reality. I look on those questions as an opportunity to tell them otherwise.
Besides being promoted in 2011, I had the honor of being named by Irish America magazine as one of its Wall Street 50. I accepted in remembrance of my grandparents. They had a great appreciation for the American dream, and now, just two generations later, one of their grandchildren heads a large American insurance company.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: EILEEN McDONNELL: Chief executive of Penn Mutual Life Insurance, Horsham, Pa. AGE: 49 BIRTHPLACE: Rockville Centre, N.Y. HAS VISITED IRELAND: Three times 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GRANDPARENTS (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); APPOINTMENTS (74%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (74%); LOBBYING (73%); WOMEN (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); LIBRARIES (70%); INSURANCE (69%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (67%); BANKING & FINANCE (65%); LIFE INSURANCE (64%); COMPANY EARNINGS (63%)

COMPANY: GUARDIAN LIFE INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (63%); EQUITABLE LIFE INSURANCE CO (54%); AXA (54%); NEW ENGLAND FINANCIAL (52%)

TICKER: CS (PAR) (54%); AXJ (ASX) (54%); AXA (BIT) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (63%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



804 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WE; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS WESTCHESTER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Photographs Of a China in Flux

BYLINE: By SUSAN HODARA

 BODY:
KATONAH, N.Y. -- From a distance, Yao Lu's two contributions to ''Rising Dragon: Contemporary Chinese Photography,'' an exhibition of more than 100 photographs at the Katonah Museum of Art, conjure centuries-old Chinese landscape paintings of majestic mountains enshrouded by mist. Closer inspection, however, reveals something quite different. What appear to be mountains are in fact mounds of garbage and construction debris draped in green and blue protective netting. A bird in a tree turns out to be a torn piece of black plastic. And might that mist actually be smog?
Commenting on the rapid urbanization taking place across 21st-century China, and the clash between its ancient traditions and its newly adopted societal mores, Mr. Yao's digitally reimagined landscapes embody the primary theme running through ''Rising Dragon.'' The show presents the recent work of 36 photographers who live and work in China, all responding to the sweeping consequences of China's integration into the global community over the past two decades. 
Miles Barth, a New York City-based independent curator who assembled the exhibition, described the changes in China as ''an atomic bombing of the economy and of the culture.''
''Suddenly,'' he said, ''they had neighborhoods being torn down around them, villages being flooded, superhighways being built over their heads and major swings in politics, economics, censorship and the influence of the West -- everything colliding at the same time. Just about every artist here is reacting in some way to that.''
They do so through photojournalism, formal portraits, staged scenes, stills from videos of performance art and varying degrees of digital manipulation, with wide-ranging subject matter that touches on issues including rampant consumerism and industrialization, the use of Chinglish, the shifting role of women, the plight of the underclass and the search for a redefined identity. There is pathos here as well as critical observation, some startling compositions and a few instances of wacky humor.
It was the humor in the photographs by Li Yu and Liu Bo, who work as a duo under the name Liyu + Liubo, that first caught Mr. Barth's attention. Their six images in ''Rising Dragon'' are stagings of stories printed in Chinese tabloid newspapers. In a piece titled ''Chutian Golden Paper 2007-08-13, An Escapee Being Chased Dropped Through the Top Floor of a Building and Scared Everybody Inside,'' office workers seated at a gleaming black conference table gaze up, somewhat apathetically, at the jeans-clad legs of a man dangling from a hole in the ceiling above. And in ''Chutian Metropolis Daily 2007-07-14, Short-Circuited Old Fridge Poached Eggs,'' a similarly unfazed woman holding a cracked egg in one hand stands before an open refrigerator that spews bright light and billows of smoke.
Mr. Li and Mr. Liu are making a witty, provocative statement about Chinese society, challenging the authenticity of the news media. ''They are making fun of stories printed in papers that the government sanctions,'' Mr. Barth said, ''but the fact that they're using real stories is their safety valve. As much as the government might want to pick bones with them, it can't.''
Another photographer with whom the government might want to pick bones is Tian Taiquan. Mr. Tian's ''Lost'' series focuses on the Cultural Revolution. Flouting the government's efforts to suppress memories of this brutal period, Mr. Tian set his photographs in the Red Guard cemetery in Chongqing, and superimposed additional visual elements digitally. In his ''No. 5,'' a faceless woman in Red Guard uniform -- red armband above her elbow, Mao's ''Little Red Book'' in her hand, braids falling from beneath her military cap -- seems to rise from a grave like a ghost.
Two of the photojournalists in the show chose to document the Yi people, one of the largest ethnic minorities in China, who were isolated from modern influences until the second half of the 20th century. The atmospheric photographs in Adou's ''Samalada'' series were shot with expired film to create a streaked, mottled texture. In his ''Girls!'' a group of young women emerges from an indistinct background to fill the frame, fringed scarves tied around their heads, warm expressions on their faces. In contrast, Li Lang's photographs of the Yi reveal evidence of the impact of the West. He photographed his subjects in their villages, where he set up a portable studio and let them choose props and poses. His ''Yi People #057'' is a portrait of two generations: three men stand against a backdrop of painted bamboo trees. The older man, wearing worn black shoes, seems to grimace with angst while beside him, the younger men sport Western-style sneakers and coifed hairdos; one holds a boombox, a cigarette dangling from his mouth.
The exhibition includes an installation by O Zhang, one of five female artists in the show: 28 snapshot-size portraits of Chinese-born girls with their adopted American fathers, all arranged on an artificial tree. Titled ''Daddy & I,'' it concerns the tens of thousands of adoptions of Chinese girls by American families. In a statement about the work, Ms. O said, ''Through the relationship of the emerging feminine power of the adolescent girl to the mature father, each image explores the unfathomable relation of the two inseparable, yet often divided cultures: East and West.''
The exhibition's title, Mr. Barth said, reflects the growing prominence of Chinese photography. ''This is a country that was closed off from the rest of the world for so many years that they are starved now for contact with the West,'' he said. ''It's that hunger that these artists are working with, to satisfy their need for openness to what was denied to them for so long. You can see it in their photographs. There's an immediacy here, a kind of urgent calling out: 'We're here! We're doing things that are important! Come and look at our work!' ''
''Rising Dragon: Contemporary Chinese Photography'' is on view through Sept. 2 in the Beitzel and Righter Galleries at the Katonah Museum of Art, 134 Jay Street, Katonah. Open Tuesday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.; guided tours daily at 2:30 p.m. Information: katonahmuseum.org or (914) 232-9555.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHANGE: Liyu + Liubo poke fun at China's news media by staging scenes based on newspaper articles, as above in ''Chutian Golden Paper 2007-08- 13, An Escapee Being Chased Dropped Through the Top Floor of a Building and Scared Everybody Inside.'' Right, a Yao Lu print
below, ''Girls!'' by Adou. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIYU + LIUBO
BRUCE SILVERSTEIN GALLERY
 ADOU, COURTESY OF PACE/MacGILL GALLERY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); PAINTING (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (72%); URBANIZATION (70%); WOMEN (70%); CENSORSHIP (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



805 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Our Ridiculous Approach To Retirement

BYLINE: By TERESA GHILARDUCCI. 
A professor of economics at the New School for Social Research.

 BODY:
I WORK on retirement policy, so friends often want to talk about their own retirement plans and prospects. While I am happy to have these conversations, my friends usually walk away feeling worse -- for good reason.
Seventy-five percent of Americans nearing retirement age in 2010 had less than $30,000 in their retirement accounts. The specter of downward mobility in retirement is a looming reality for both middle- and higher-income workers. Almost half of middle-class workers, 49 percent, will be poor or near poor in retirement, living on a food budget of about $5 a day.
In my ad hoc retirement talks, I repeatedly hear about the ''guy.'' This is a for-profit investment adviser, often described as, ''I have this guy who is pretty good, he always calls, doesn't push me into investments.'' When I ask how much the ''guy'' costs, or if the guy has fiduciary loyalty -- to the client, not the firm -- or if their investments do better than a standard low-fee benchmark, they inevitably don't know. After hearing about their magical guy, I ask about their ''number.'' 
To maintain living standards into old age we need roughly 20 times our annual income in financial wealth. If you earn $100,000 at retirement, you need about $2 million beyond what you will receive from Social Security. If you have an income-producing partner and a paid-off house, you need less. This number is startling in light of the stone-cold fact that most people aged 50 to 64 have nothing or next to nothing in retirement accounts and thus will rely solely on Social Security.
Even for those who know their ''number'' and are prepared for retirement (it happens, rarely), these conversations aren't easy. At dinner one night, a friend told me how much he has in retirement assets and said he didn't think he had saved enough. I mentally calculated his mortality, figured he would die sooner than he predicted, and told him cheerfully that he shouldn't worry. (''Congratulations!'') But dying early is not the basis of a retirement plan.
If we manage to accept that our investments will likely not be enough, we usually enter another fantasy world -- that of working longer. After all, people hear that 70 is the new 50, and a recent report from Boston College says that if people work until age 70, they will most likely have enough to retire on. Unfortunately, this ignores the reality that unemployment rates for those over 50 are increasing faster than for any other group and that displaced older workers face a higher risk of long-term unemployment than their younger counterparts. If those workers ever do get re-hired, it's not without taking at least a 25 percent wage cut.
But the idea is tempting; people say they don't want to retire and feel useless. Professionals say they can keep going, ''maybe do some consulting'' or find some other way to generate income well into their late 60s. Others say they can always be Walmart greeters. They rarely admit that many people retire earlier than they want because they are laid off or their spouse becomes sick.
Like the nation's wealth gap, the longevity gap has also widened. The chance to work into one's 70s primarily belongs to the most well off. Medical technology has helped extend life, by helping older people survive longer with illnesses and by helping others stay active. The gains in longevity in the last two decades almost all went to people earning more than average. It makes perfect sense for human beings to think each of us is special and can work forever. To admit you can't, or might not be able to, is hard, and denial and magical thinking are underrated human coping devices in response to helplessness and fear.
So it's not surprising that denial dominates my dinner conversations, but it is irresponsible for Congress to deny that regardless of how much you throw 401(k) advertising, pension cuts, financial education and tax breaks at Americans, the retirement system simply defies human behavior. Basing a system on people's voluntarily saving for 40 years and evaluating the relevant information for sound investment choices is like asking the family pet to dance on two legs.
Not yet convinced that failure is baked into the voluntary, self-directed, commercially run retirement plans system? Consider what would have to happen for it to work for you. First, figure out when you and your spouse will be laid off or be too sick to work. Second, figure out when you will die. Third, understand that you need to save 7 percent of every dollar you earn. (Didn't start doing that when you were 25 and you are 55 now? Just save 30 percent of every dollar.) Fourth, earn at least 3 percent above inflation on your investments, every year. (Easy. Just find the best funds for the lowest price and have them optimally allocated.) Fifth, do not withdraw any funds when you lose your job, have a health problem, get divorced, buy a house or send a kid to college. Sixth, time your retirement account withdrawals so the last cent is spent the day you die.
As we all know, these abilities are not common for our species. The current model for retirement savings, which forces individuals to figure out a plan for their retirement years, whether through a ''guy'' or by individual decision making, will always fall short. My friends are afraid, and they are not alone. In March, according to the Employee Benefit Research Institute, only 52 percent of Americans expressed confidence that they will be comfortable in retirement. Twenty years ago, that number was close to 75 percent.
I hope that fear can make us all get real. The coming retirement income security crisis is a shared problem; it is not caused by a set of isolated individual behaviors. My plan calls for a way out that would create guaranteed retirement accounts on top of Social Security. These accounts would be required, professionally managed, come with a guaranteed rate of return and pay out annuities. This is a sensible way to get people to prepare for the future. You don't like mandates? Get real. Just as a voluntary Social Security system would have been a disaster, a voluntary retirement account plan is a disaster.
It is now more than 30 years since the 401(k)/Individual Retirement Account model appeared on the scene. This do-it-yourself pension system has failed. It has failed because it expects individuals without investment expertise to reap the same results as professional investors and money managers. What results would you expect if you were asked to pull your own teeth or do your own electrical wiring?
Although humans may be bad at some behaviors, we are good at others, including coming together and finding common solutions that protect all of us from risk. Surely we can find a way to help people save -- adequately and with little risk -- for their old age.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DENNIS STOCK/MAGNUM PHOTOS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); AGING (89%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (78%); RETIREMENT POLICIES (78%); RETIREMENT AGE (78%); OLDER WORKERS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



806 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1901 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Improving Our Schools

 BODY:
Will a new set of standards and more tests help students?
The Letter
To the Editor:
The common core standards movement seems to be common sense: Our schools should have similar standards, what students should know at each grade. The movement, however, is based on the false assumption that our schools are broken, that ineffective teaching is the problem and that rigorous standards and tests are necessary to improve things.
The mediocre performance of American students on international tests seems to show that our schools are doing poorly. But students from middle-class homes who attend well-funded schools rank among the best in the world on these tests, which means that teaching is not the problem. The problem is poverty. Our overall scores are unspectacular because so many American children live in poverty (23 percent, ranking us 34th out of 35 ''economically advanced countries'').
Poverty means inadequate nutrition and health care, and little access to books, all associated with lower school achievement. Addressing those needs will increase achievement and better the lives of millions of children. 
How can we pay for this? Reduce testing. The common core, adopted by 45 states, demands an astonishing increase in testing, far more than needed and far more than the already excessive amount required by No Child Left Behind.
No Child Left Behind requires tests in math and reading at the end of the school year in grades 3 to 8 and once in high school. The common core will test more subjects and more grade levels, and adds tests given during the year. There may also be pretests in the fall.
The cost will be enormous. New York City plans to spend over half a billion dollars on technology in schools, primarily so that students can take the electronically delivered national tests.
Research shows that increasing testing does not increase achievement. A better investment is protecting children from the effects of poverty, in feeding the animal, not just weighing it.
STEPHEN KRASHEN Los Angeles, July 16, 2012
The writer is professor emeritus at the University of Southern California Rossier School of Education.
Readers React
The idea that reducing spending on educational testing could help alleviate poverty is naive. Testing actually costs less, on a per-pupil basis, than a new textbook, a year's worth of school supplies or almost any other educational expenditure, according to a 2010 report by the Stanford Center for Opportunity Policy in Education.
It's been estimated that as little as 1 percent of total educational spending is spent on assessment. It is true that schools will likely have to spend more money on digital technology to accommodate new assessments to monitor students' mastery of the new common core standards. But that technology will be used throughout the school day, not just for assessments.
Moreover, the return on the investment will be far greater than the cost. Assessments will be embedded in engaging digital environments that make it possible to measure not just what students know but how they apply what they know to solve problems and communicate their ideas.
That won't happen unless policy makers are willing to spend more, not less, on high-quality tests that provide information that is much more valuable instructionally than the tests in use today.
RICHARD LEE COLVIN Washington, July 18, 2012
The writer is a visiting fellow at the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation.
Another tremendous cost of the increased testing to students will be the increased loss of time for actual teaching and learning. With pretests in the fall, end-of-the-year tests in the spring and regular ''formative'' tests throughout the school year, students will lose weeks of instructional time.
BETH SKELTON Crawford, Colo., July 18, 2012
The writer is an English as a second language coordinator at the Bavarian International School.
Our blind adherence to the regimen of testing has yielded a cultural perspective that could fairly be termed pathological. Even our most test-successful children seem bent on improving their test scores by any means necessary, as witnessed recently by the testing scandal at Stuyvesant High School in Manhattan (my alma mater), where more than 80 students are being investigated for cheating on tests that they knew would have no significant impact on their academic futures.
Further, many of these very same ''gifted'' and privileged children around the country are habitual abusers of prescription amphetamines to enhance their test performances.
Illegal cheating on this scale is dwarfed only by the legal cheating that supports the multibillion-dollar testing and test-prep industry, as families of means further distance themselves from the underprivileged by spending tens of thousands of dollars buying points on high-stakes tests for their children.
The real test is the test of life -- where taking risks and failing gloriously is rewarded far more richly than meaningless numbers on a piece of paper. Let us re-evaluate the principles our education system currently embraces and focus again on the skills and values that have made our society profoundly successful.
ROLAND LEGIARDI-LAURA New York, July 18, 2012
The writer is an educator and documentary filmmaker.
Poverty is indeed the root cause of student achievement gaps, but urban schools serving predominantly low-income students like mine show that you can overcome these gaps if you use testing data during the course of the year to match students with extra tutoring, literacy interventions and other supports. My colleagues and I can't afford to wait until the end of the year to find out that our teaching methods are working for only some of our students.
Furthermore, schools like mine are increasingly shelling out huge amounts of money to companies that administer tests for our students during the year. The common core tests will be free, and the computer-based administration will allow for more rapid turnaround of data than ever for teachers.
Thus, while we should always ask if we are testing our students too much, the common core's use of a few optional interim tests over the course of the year will play a crucial role in closing student achievement gaps.
HENRY SETON Cambridge, Mass., July 18, 2012
The writer is a humanities teacher at Community Charter School of Cambridge.
Last year my son was in the third grade. By all accounts he had one of the best third-grade teachers that our award-winning suburban school district had to offer. And he was having a spectacular year. He looked forward to going to school every day. He was excited about learning, and he was performing extraordinarily well. That is, until about the middle of May, when preparations began in earnest for administration of his very first state standardized test.
In the week leading up to the test, my son was constantly complaining of physical ailments. His normal enthusiasm for school waned, replaced by fear and dread. This same malady had apparently stricken many of the other children in the third to eighth grades.
It was as if all of the children had contracted some strange testing flu.
I am not suggesting that all testing is unwarranted or problematic. However, for a tool so detrimental to the well-being of our children, we should determine the threshold at which we maximize the benefit while minimizing the harm.
STACY HAWKINS Elkins Park, Pa., July 18, 2012
Mr. Krashen is dead right that poverty is one of the main causes of academic underachievement. But he needs to remember that without testing, we would never know about the achievement gaps in education. The knowledge that we derive from test scores allows us to make the kind of analysis that he has done. Throwing out the tests to save money is not the answer to the problem.
STEPHEN T. SCHREIBER Princeton, N.J., July 18, 2012
The writer worked for the companies that administered the GMAT and LSAT exams for admission to graduate and law schools.
Mr. Krashen is correct about an excess of testing in American schools, but not about the assumptions behind the common core standards. The standards are not meant to fix broken schools, and they certainly do not make it ''necessary'' to administer more tests. Standards make it possible for teachers to understand both what their students have learned before and what they will learn afterward. These are enormously valuable benefits. When crafted properly, standards can be effective and creative tools for teachers.
But the common core standards are currently being hijacked by politicians and administrators who see them as way to collect huge amounts of new data to evaluate everything from districts to teachers. It is the common core assessments, not the standards, that will cost us dearly, and Mr. Krashen is right that this money could be better spent.
Making higher test scores the goal of education is our problem, not the standards.
Fight poverty by all means, but let's also fight to set intellectually sound educational goals.
JOHN EWING President, Math for America New York, July 18, 2012
Mr. Krashen is right. Poverty is the problem that most affects education in America. I work at a school in which a large percentage of the students live at or near the poverty level. Some live in cars, and some get their only meals of the day at school. These children need far greater levels of support than their middle-class peers.
Not only do they lack books, but they also frequently lack study skills and computers. Often their parents don't have the time to check homework; they are too busy trying to earn enough money to survive.
If we want children from poverty to succeed, we need to reduce class sizes to no more than 20 students. We need to provide after-school study halls staffed by teachers or college students who can help these children study and check their homework.
If this sounds expensive, look at the cost of poverty. What do food stamps, free school meals, medical care provided by emergency rooms and time spent in jail cost us as a society?
KIMBERLY CARPENDER San Diego, July 18, 2012
The Writer Responds
I agree with Mr. Schreiber: There is a role for standardized tests. But there are far too many of them. One function of such tests is to compare groups and investigate factors related to high achievement, which works if tests are valid and are low-stakes and thus do not encourage cheating. But we don't have to test every child in every grade every year.
The National Assessment of Educational Progress, the gold standard of American tests, is enough. The test is given every four years to small samples of students, and the results are extrapolated to larger groups. When you go to doctors, they don't take all your blood; they take only a sample.
The Pioneer Institute estimates that the start-up cost for the new technology for common core assessments will be $2.8 billion. Mr. Colvin suggests that this is a good investment, because the technology may be useful in other ways. Maybe it will; maybe it won't. What is nearly certain is that the new technology will be obsolete soon after it is installed.
Ms. Hawkins and Ms. Skelton make points my letter should have included: the negative psychological impact overtesting has on children and the time taken from teaching and learning.
I wish Mr. Seton were right. I wish that the common core testing program amounted only to a few optional interim tests.
STEPHEN KRASHEN Los Angeles, July 19, 2012

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAYUMI OTERO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACADEMIC STANDARDS (90%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); WRITERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); US NO CHILD LEFT BEHIND ACT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CHILD POVERTY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (62%); NUTRITION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



807 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL 2013 DODGE DART; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1410 words

HEADLINE: Armed by Alfa, Chrysler Wields a Higher-Caliber Small Car

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
DODGE put a great deal of thought into the naming of its new-for-2013 compact sedan.
Continuing to use the name of the Caliber, the model being replaced, was never an option; that hatchback penalty box was almost universally scorned, even by rental car companies. Nor was much thought given to resurrecting the googly-eyed Neon, though it was the last small Dodge to sell in significant numbers. Delving into the 1970s and '80s seemed pointless: time's passing had not water-colored America's memories of the uninspired Aries K-car or the often-recalled Aspen compact.
Ultimately, the company reached back more than a third of a century to dust off a name -- Dart -- associated with success rather than failure.
The Dart nameplate first appeared on a highly praised 1956 concept car designed by Virgil Exner. The name was then applied to a range of Dodges in 1960-76, including, most notably, a line of compacts that acquired a reputation for being nearly indestructible. 
''The Dart was one of the most successful compact cars ever introduced in the American automobile marketplace,'' R. D. McLaughlin, a Chrysler vice president for sales, said in the mid-1970s as the Aspen was elbowing it aside.
Today, however, Chrysler's starved-for-product Dodge division is so eager for a fresh start, and so desperate for a reboot in the compact sedan segment, that it turned to its European cousins for inspiration.
Under its new skin, and despite its red, white and blue name, the Dart is an Alfa Romeo at heart.
The car's basic structure comes from the much-admired Alfa Giulietta, the runner-up for 2011 Car of the Year honors in Europe. The chassis, suspension, electric power steering, engine, transmission and other driveline components are direct from the Fiat Group, parent of Alfa and the reborn Chrysler Group. A recently announced variant will be sold in China and other international markets as the Fiat Viaggio, and as many as a half-dozen other yet-to-be-announced models -- coupes, sedans, hatchbacks and crossover utilities -- may eventually use the same versatile platform.
The adaptability of this chassis, as well as its relatively low cost, is its core strength. By comparison, the Caliber rode on a Franken-chassis: part Mitsubishi Lancer, part Chrysler Sebring, part Jeep Patriot -- perhaps, for that matter, part Conestoga wagon.
But comparing the Caliber with the Dart is like comparing a scruffy mutt with a pampered best-of-show purebred. A more interesting comparison is between the Dart and the Giulietta. A fully equipped Giulietta costs Europeans about $42,000, whereas a Dart can be had for half as much. But the Dart, which in base trim is priced even more attractively at $16,790, does not feel cheap or dumbed-down; in fact, in back-to-back test drives, I preferred the Dart to the Giulietta over all. Dodge has scored a neat trick here, with an entry-level made-in-America compact sedan -- the Dart is assembled in Belvidere, Ill. -- that trumps a premium European sport hatchback.
Dodge engineers and designers seem to have retained the best of the Alfa, including precise steering and driving dynamics, while improving on features that may matter most to Americans, like comfort, roominess and utility.
The Dart is about a foot longer than the Giulietta and a bit wider. While the extra size -- pushing the boundaries of the compact class -- enhances its premium feel, there is little trade-off in added weight or reduced fuel economy. Comparably equipped, a Dart outweighs a Giulietta by 150 to 200 pounds.
In a mix of similar driving conditions, my average fuel economy in the Giulietta and in three variations of the Dart was in the mid-30 m.p.g. range.
On my best tankful, in a Dart with the optional turbocharged 1.4-liter MultiAir 4-cylinder, I averaged 37 m.p.g. in a combination of city stop-and-go and 80 m.p.h. freeway driving (legal in Utah). An Aero trim package, to be available in the fall, is expected to lift the Dart's highway mileage to 41 or 42 m.p.g.
The potent MultiAir, which is also offered in the zippy Fiat 500 Abarth, makes 160 horsepower, with 184 pound-feet of torque, and it helps the rather large Dart feel robust both around town and on the highway. The E.P.A. rating for this engine, mated to a 6-speed manual transmission, is 27 in the city, 39 on the highway -- impressive figures for a car that weighs around 3,200 pounds.
The standard engine, the 2-liter
Tigershark in-line 4, is a Chrysler design that breathes without turbo assistance while developing the same 160 horsepower as the MultiAir (but only 148 pound-feet of peak torque). The
Tigershark carries a federal mileage rating of 25 city, 36 highway.
Another 4-cylinder engine will make its debut later this year in the sporty Dart R/T: a 2.4-liter MultiAir 2 Tigershark rated at 184 horsepower and 171 pound-feet of torque. But I would still check the box for the marvelous 1.4 MultiAir.The little Italian turbo motor is best matched to the ideally geared, entirely satisfying 6-speed manual transmission, a reminder that the many Americans who don't know how to shift manually are depriving themselves of automotive enjoyment. Still, the optional 6-speed automatic is an adequate alternative. A sporty dual-clutch transmission will be a future option -- though, oddly, not on the R/T.
In keeping with the Dart's Italian ancestry, the packaging engineers deserve a nod for offering more flavors than a gelateria. Twelve exterior colors are available, including retro-sounding paint hues like Header Orange and Citrus Peel; to enliven the interior, 14 color and trim combinations will be offered. Typically, buyers of compact sedans must cover their eyes and choose among a few sleep-inducing shades of gray and beige.
Though the Dart looks distinctively European, despite a dose of Dodge-style aggression -- with a long, wide hood, crossbar grille and up to 18-inch wheels and tires, it shares no exterior body or interior trim panels with the Giulietta. The only obviously shared part is the knob on the manual shifter.
The Dart is offered in four trim levels, the SE, SXT, Rallye and Limited, with the R/T to arrive in the fall. There are options galore, many of them premium features atypical of economy cars, including a backup camera, blind-spot and rear cross-path warning systems, heated steering wheel, heated leather seats and a multimedia command center and navigation system.
The price of a fully equipped Limited approaches $27,000, and a loaded R/T will be about the same.
A Garmin-based navigation system with real-time traffic and satellite radio can be added to models that have the UConnect multimedia center. The system, with its simplistic graphics, limited display and cryptic menus, is not my favorite. But it is still better than the one offered in Europe on the Giulietta.
My complaints about the Dart include the front seats, which look better than they feel. The front passenger sits atop a hidden storage compartment, a clever idea that unfortunately results in a thin and uncomfortable seat cushion.
The electric power steering, which I found to be excellent, may be too precise and sporty for some American drivers. The Dart is afflicted by a bit more road noise and vibration than the Giuletta, but I noticed that only when driving the cars back-to-back.
I was pleasantly surprised that the front-drive Dart exhibited little or no torque steer -- a sideways tug of the driving wheels -- when accelerating.
Nor was there appreciable understeer -- a tendency to plow ahead, rather than turn -- when cornering. While the Giulietta's chassis uses steel subframes, the Dart is equipped instead with weight-saving die-cast aluminum subframes that are bolted to the steel unibody for greater rigidity.
The Dart is surprisingly agile through the most diabolical corners and pavement changes. One supposes that if you're descended from the Italians, with their winding, narrow, angina-inducing roads, this sort of agility must be in your genes. Even on wet pavement, the Darts I drove had tenacious grip.
It is no exaggeration to say that cars like the Dart, Giulietta and Viaggio are vitally important to the Fiat Group's well-being. These are strong new products in a class neglected too long by Fiat and Chrysler. In the American market, where the new Ford Focus is setting a high standard for style, comfort and road manners, and with rivals like the Hyundai Elantra coming on strong, the Dart seems a worthy challenger.
INSIDE TRACK: Bull's-eye.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: AIMING HIGHER: Well-appointed Limited, left, and sporty R/T are two choices in the wide-ranging Dart lineup. Although it borrows from the Alfa Romeo Giulietta, the Dodge is significantly different.(AU1)
 TARGET MARKET: Midrange SXT, above, is likely to be the best seller. Left, up-level Darts have a large touch screen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRYSLER GROUP)(AU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (74%); CONCEPT CARS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (72%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (57%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FIAT SPA (85%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (85%); F (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (86%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



808 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; CAPITAL IDEAS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: There's Still Hope for the Planet

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
David Leonhardt is the Washington bureau chief of The New York Times.

 BODY:
Washington
YOU don't have to be a climate scientist these days to know that the climate has problems. You just have to step outside.
The United States is now enduring its warmest year on record, and the 13 warmest years for the entire planet have all occurred since 1998, according to data that stretches back to 1880. No one day's weather can be tied to global warming, of course, but more than a decade's worth of changing weather surely can be, scientists say. Meanwhile, the country often seems to be moving further away from doing something about climate change, with the issue having all but fallen out of the national debate.
Behind the scenes, however, a somewhat different story is starting to emerge -- one that offers reason for optimism to anyone worried about the planet. The world's largest economies may now be in the process of creating a climate-change response that does not depend on the politically painful process of raising the price of dirty energy. The response is not guaranteed to work, given the scale of the problem. But the early successes have been notable. 
Over the last several years, the governments of the United States, Europe and China have spent hundreds of billions of dollars on clean-energy research and deployment. And despite some high-profile flops, like ethanol and Solyndra, the investments seem to be succeeding more than they are failing.
The price of solar and wind power have both fallen sharply in the last few years. This country's largest wind farm, sprawling across eastern Oregon, is scheduled to open next month. Already, the world uses vastly more alternative energy than experts predicted only a decade ago.
Even natural gas, a hotly debated topic among climate experts, helps make the point. Thanks in part to earlier government investments, energy companies have been able to extract much more natural gas than once seemed possible. The use of natural gas to generate electricity -- far from perfectly clean but less carbon-intensive than coal use -- has jumped 25 percent since 2008, while prices have fallen more than 80 percent. Natural gas now generates as much electricity as coal in the United States, which would have been unthinkable not long ago.
The successes make it possible at least to fathom a transition to clean energy that does not involve putting a price on carbon -- either through a carbon tax or a cap-and-trade program that requires licenses for emissions. It was exactly such a program, supported by both Barack Obama and John McCain in the 2008 campaign, that died in Congress in 2010 and is now opposed by almost all Congressional Republicans and some coal-state and oil-state Democrats.
To describe the two approaches is to underline their political differences. A cap-and-trade program sets out to make the energy we use more expensive. An investment program aims to make alternative energy less expensive.
Most scientists and economists, to be sure, think the best chance for success involves both strategies: if dirty energy remains as cheap as it is today, clean energy will have a much longer road to travel. And even an investment-only strategy is not guaranteed to continue. The clean-energy spending in Mr. Obama's 2009 stimulus package has largely expired, while several older programs are scheduled to lapse as early as Dec. 31. In the current political and fiscal atmosphere, their renewal is far from assured.
Still, the clean-energy push has been successful enough to leave many climate advocates believing it is the single best hope for preventing even hotter summers, more droughts and bigger brush fires. ''Carbon pricing is going to have an uphill climb in the U.S. for the foreseeable future,'' says Robert N. Stavins, a Harvard economist who is a leading advocate for such pricing, ''so it does make sense to think about other things.''
Those others things, in the simplest terms, are policies intended to help find a breakthrough technology that can power the economy without heating the planet. ''Our best hope,'' says Benjamin H. Strauss, a scientist who is the chief operating officer of Climate Central, a research group, ''is some kind of disruptive technology that takes off on its own, the way the Internet and the fax took off.''
Governments have played a crucial role in financing many of the most important technological inventions of the past century. That's no coincidence: Basic research is often unprofitable. It involves too much failure, and an inventor typically captures only a tiny slice of the profits that flow from a discovery.
Although government officials make mistakes when choosing among nascent technologies, one success can outweigh many failures. Washington-financed research has made possible semiconductors, radar, the Internet, the radio, the jet engine and many medical advances, including penicillin. The two countries that have made the most progress in reducing carbon emissions, France and Sweden, have done so largely by supporting nuclear and hydropower, notes Michael Shellenberger, president of the Breakthrough Institute in Oakland, Calif.
The story of shale gas, a form of natural gas, is typical, in that it depends on both private-sector ingenuity and public-sector support. Halliburton first figured out how to recover natural gas from limestone deposits at a field in Kansas in 1947. But its technique proved ineffective in extracting gas from shale rock. For decades, geologists remained skeptical that the enormous amounts of gas in shale formation could ever be extracted.
''You're using our retirement money on something that's no good,'' Dan Steward, a geologist at Mitchell Energy, the company that eventually succeeded, recalled hearing from colleagues. Mitchell Energy, however, kept attacking the problem, with help from both government funds and computer mapping that came from a federal laboratory.
Solar and wind power today fall into a category that natural gas once did: for all their promise, they cannot compete on a mass scale with existing energy sources. Wind electricity costs between 15 percent and 25 percent more than standard electricity. Solar power often costs more than twice as much.
Federal subsidies can help close the gap. More important, they can finance research that may lead to a technological leap that brings down their costs.
In relative terms, the sums for clean-energy research that many scientists and economists support are not huge. A politically diverse group of experts recently set a target of $25 billion a year in federal spending on research and development (some of which could come from phasing out ineffective programs). That amount is slightly below the budget of the National Institutes of Health and only 3 percent as large as the Social Security budget. Other experts put the ideal figure closer to $50 billion.
At the recent peak, in 2009, all federal spending on clean energy -- including money for research and subsidies for households and businesses -- amounted to $44 billion. This year, Washington will spend about $16 billion. The scheduled expiration of a tax credit for wind, originally signed by the first President George Bush in 1992, would help reduce the total to $14 billion next year, and current law has it continuing to fall in 2014.
The combination of these expirations, which Mark Muro of the Brookings Institution calls a major, little-appreciated policy shift, and the latest temperature readings have not exactly left climate scientists brimming with cheer. This summer's drought has affected as much of the country as the Dust Bowl drought. Large patches of Colorado have burned. Atlanta has recorded its hottest day in history this year. Dallas endured 40 straight days above 100 degrees last July and August -- and this year so far has been even hotter than last year.
On the other hand, the weather has made the climate harder to ignore. And when you look closer, there are some reasons for hope -- tentative, but full of potential -- hiding beneath the surface.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY VICTOR KERLOW)
CHARTS: Wind and Solar Energy Are Getting Cheaper : Costs for both energy sources have declined, using common measurements for each.
And Renewable Energy Use Is Rising : United States consumption of the three classes of energy, 1980-2011.
But Federal Support Is Falling: Federal clean-energy spending, including for research, development and usage subsidies. (Sources: Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
Clean Edge, Inc.
Breakthrough Institute
U.S. Energy Information Admin.
Brookings Institution
 World Resources Institute)(SR7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); WIND ENERGY (87%); SOLAR ENERGY (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); ENERGY RESEARCH (78%); EMISSIONS (76%); POLITICAL DEBATES (74%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); ALCOHOLS (68%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (66%); ETHANOL (65%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%)

COMPANY: SOLYNDRA INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%); WORLD RESOURCES INSTITUTE (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



809 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Only the First Step In Containing Health Costs

BYLINE: By CHRISTINA D. ROMER. 
Christina D. Romer is an economics professor at the University of California, Berkeley, and was the chairwoman of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisers.

 BODY:
HERE'S a frightening thought: Despite the recent Supreme Court decision upholding the Affordable Care Act, serious work on more health care legislation is still needed.
Don't get me wrong: the new law is a great step forward. It is expected to expand health insurance coverage to more than 30 million uninsured Americans without increasing the deficit, and it makes an important start on reining in the rapid growth of health care costs.
But it's only a start. Even with the law, health care spending is still projected to rise rapidly over coming decades, so more steps to contain costs will have to be taken.
Supporters of President Obama's plan usually talk about the expansion in coverage and the new consumer protections: the large decline in the number of uninsured people, more preventive care and the prohibition on denying coverage for pre-existing conditions. These huge accomplishments deserve to be shouted from the rooftops. 
But there's a side that's often forgotten: the so-called pay-fors and the cost-containment measures. These components -- provisions to finance the new expenditures and tax credits, as well as to slow the rapid rise of health care costs -- help explain why the act was so hard to pass, and why it remains the subject of so much debate. Unfortunately, they are also the parts that need to be expanded and built upon.
Despite Republican claims that the law is a budget buster, the Congressional Budget Office, the nonpartisan, official scorekeeper on budget matters, estimated it would actually reduce the deficit over the next 10 years. Such fiscal responsibility is in stark contrast to the last major health care legislation, the Medicare prescription drug benefit passed in 2003, which was projected to add nearly $400 billion to the 10-year deficit.
The new law includes some taxes on industries that are expected to increase sales and profits because of the expanded coverage, such as medical device makers and pharmaceutical companies. And it raises the Medicare tax rate for families earning more than $250,000 a year.
It also trims some Medicare spending. For example, it cuts reimbursement rates for the Medicare Advantage program, which allows Medicare beneficiaries to choose a private health maintenance organization plan, in place of traditional fee-for-service coverage. Medicare Advantage has been much more costly than anticipated, largely because insurers have been very clever in attracting the people from whom they earn the most profits. Such cuts of even wasteful spending aren't popular, but they are good policy.
EVEN more important than these pay-fors are measures that slow cost growth. Health care spending has been rising as a share of national income for decades, and is projected to keep rising -- from 10 percent in 1985 to 17 percent in 2010 to nearly 25 percent in 2037. This rise squeezes families' consumption of other goods and reduces business investment. And because the government pays for much of the nation's health care, rising spending devastates the federal budget. So finding ways to slow spending growth is vital.
Surprisingly, one of the law's most useful cost-containment measures may be a tax pay-for: the excise tax on high-priced insurance plans. Since the 1950s, health insurance benefits provided by employers haven't been taxed. Employers thus have strong incentives to pay workers with more generous insurance policies. Such policies, which typically have lower deductibles and co-payments, may lead families to be less vigilant consumers of health care.
Starting in 2018, the law taxes very generous policies -- those costing more than $27,500 a year for a family -- a move that should encourage benefits managers to shop for more cost-effective plans. Those plans are likely to include incentives for consumers to push for cost savings, too.
The hope is that this pressure will encourage efficiency improvements throughout the health care industry. And because the cutoff for what counts as a high-priced policy will grow with overall inflation, and not with the higher rate of health care inflation, the tax's effectiveness should increase over time.
The law also promotes efficiency by generating information about cost effectiveness. A two-decade research project at Dartmouth College has shown that different parts of the country have vastly different costs for treating the same illness, without corresponding differences in outcomes. The holy grail of health economics is to figure out which treatments or ways of organizing care lead to lower costs and better results. The act sets up an institute to evaluate the effectiveness of different treatments, and includes funding for demonstration projects to tackle this question.
For example, Medicare has a pilot program organizing primary-care physicians into teams that coordinate care and anticipate health problems. The goal is to see if this leads to better patient results than the traditional approach of individual doctors reacting to problems after the fact.
A third measure is the new Independent Payment Advisory Board, charged with proposing near-term cost savings whenever Medicare spending is projected to grow faster than a target rate. Though it's precluded from suggesting many things -- notably additional revenue measures or benefit limitations -- it can suggest restructuring or cuts in payments to health care providers. Congress must either accept these recommendations or find alternatives that achieve the same savings. In this way, the board may be able to bring about politically difficult changes.
Just how much the law will slow spending growth is highly uncertain. The Congressional Budget Office, whose views on this issue fall squarely between the optimists' and the pessimists', estimates that it's likely to reduce the budget deficit by about $1 trillion in its second decade -- when the cost-containment measures have had time to pay dividends.
Big as those savings are, they will still leave a huge share of national output dedicated to health care and the federal budget far in the red. What more might be done?
A natural approach is to strengthen measures already enacted. Once the payment advisory board has a track record, for example, perhaps it could be empowered to suggest changes in benefits or in how Medicare services are provided -- say, along the lines of successful demonstration projects.
Likewise, the Bowles-Simpson bipartisan fiscal commission recommended, as part of overall tax reform, limiting the amount of health insurance benefits excluded from taxation. Like the excise tax on high-priced plans, this change would probably increase pressure to keep costs down.
Even larger departures from the current system may be needed. The law creates health insurance exchanges where individuals and small businesses can buy coverage. Including a reasonably priced public plan as an option could exert downward pressure on the price of private health insurance policies by increasing competition.
SADLY, serious debate over further cost-savings measures may be a long way off. Some Republicans seem more interested in just limiting the government's share of health care expenditures than in slowing overall spending. And some Democrats seem more interested in just preserving existing government programs than in making the entire health care system more efficient.
For the sake of the nation's fiscal health, and the health and economic security of American families, it's time to embrace cost containment in health care as the next great legislative challenge.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOEL KIMMEL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); INSURANCE (77%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); PREVENTION & WELLNESS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); APPEALS (73%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (72%); TAX RELIEF (71%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (69%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (68%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); MEDICAL DEVICES (63%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (63%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (60%); MEDICAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MFG (50%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



810 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2336 words

HEADLINE: Follow That Tourist

BYLINE: By LIZ ROBBINS

 BODY:
SUMMER gridlock alert! The foreign tourists are here, moving languidly like amoebas on the sidewalks, clogging the subways and rounding the corners atop ubiquitous double-decker buses that rumble from Broadway to Brooklyn.
You can't navigate in Midtown these days. Or in Central Park. Or on the Brooklyn Bridge. So why fight it?
If it seems as though international tourists are proliferating by the New York minute, this is not hyperbole. They accounted for 10.6 million of the 50.9 million visitors to the city last year, an increase of 55.5 percent since 2005, according to NYC and Company, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's marketing and tourism arm.
But it seemed to me, as one of the 8 million who live here, that their city and mine have never quite intersected. We operate, by circumstance, in separate spheres; as hordes of tourists wearing sneakers and matching T-shirts unfurl maps, we stare at our phones and rush off to work in skirts, suits or boots, each of us sustaining the city economy with a few passing nods to the other. 
Occasionally, we give directions, making us feel rather self-satisfied, if not omniscient. But maybe we are not the city experts we think we are. What if these foreign visitors know something about New York that we don't? Perhaps we should be the ones stopping to ask questions of tourists.
With the goal of gleaning insight from modern-day Alexis de Tocquevilles, I decided to hop into that parallel universe to visit the other city known as Tourists' New York. So I searched French guidebooks, German Web sites and Japanese magazines, and devised a loose itinerary based on their recommendations: shops in Brooklyn, museums in Queens, parks and bars in Manhattan, hip-hop landmarks in the Bronx. (Sorry, Staten Island. Next time.)
I chose a week of sweltering heat to increase the challenge (think Bikram touring) and to justify colossal iced coffees. Imbued with caffeine, and armed with curiosity and my monthly MetroCard, I embarked on a quest to find tourists who were searching for the real New York.
I just didn't think it would be so difficult.
THE Japanese are professionals at being tourists. In recent times they have published forests of obsessively detailed glossy guidebooks and magazines listing the hippest spots in Brooklyn, the most authentic clothing stores, the best bakeries, the hidden gems.
''Real New Yorkers take the East River Ferry to Williamsburg,'' proclaims one fashion magazine, translated for me from the Japanese.
Takeshi Iida, who has lived in New York for nine years and owns the vintage clothing store About Glamour in Williamsburg, learns where to go from these Japanese sources. ''They know more about New York than us,'' he said.
Japanese tourists, I am told by David Imber, who writes about New York for the trendsetting Japanese magazine Brutus, seek to bring back authentic gifts with a unique story that can involve the recipient. For the past two years, that has meant returning with something from Brooklyn. ''If you give somebody something from Brooklyn, you say, 'Oh, by the way, you might have seen this article, or seen this on NHK television.' It's the shared experience that's important,'' Mr. Imber said.
He assured me that there was a ''torrent'' of tourists from Japan coming to Brooklyn, and I began at a store he chronicled: By Brooklyn, a year-old source of artisanal kitsch on Smith Street in Carroll Gardens.
Indeed, said its owner, Gaia DiLoreto, tourists from Japan want to know the story behind the products they buy -- the Brooklyn pickles, ginger syrup, dish towels, T-shirts and soy wax candles (made by a woman in her Bedford-Stuyvesant apartment). Ms. DiLoreto has considered printing cards in Japanese describing the provenance of each item, as in a museum, because she gets so many inquiries from Japanese tourists.
Still, in two separate hourlong trips to the store, I did not see any of them. ''They were here yesterday,'' she said, the first time I dropped in and lingered. And the next time: ''You just missed a couple!''
I was on a schedule and figured I would have better luck elsewhere. At the Americana shop Kill Devil Hill on Franklin Street in Greenpoint, a Japanese tourist and writer had left her dog-eared, pen-marked copy of ''New York Brooklyn Neighborhood,'' a guidebook, days earlier. She was nowhere to be found; I borrowed it.
I ventured to the Whiskey Shop on North 11th Street, which sells locally distilled whiskey from Kings County Distillery in plain apothecary bottles with typed labels. The Japanese Whiskey Council had contacted the store to plan an event.
''We had a few people from Japan yesterday,'' Jonathan Wingo, the general manager, said. ''You should come back on the weekend.''
I went back on the weekend. No luck. As per his suggestion, I visited Beacon's Closet, a vintage-clothing shop where a photo shoot had taken place for a Japanese teen fashion magazine the day before. I stopped by Brooklyn Denim Co., Pilgrim Surf+Supply, and the Mast Brotherschocolate shop, an F.A.O. Schwarz for adults.
I was beginning to despair that my quest was futile. And when I despair, I eat chocolate. And shop. This was getting expensive.
I went to Hickoree's Floor Two, just off the beaten path on South Sixth Street, down the block from Peter Luger's famed steakhouse. Climbing the stairs, I felt lucky. And there, amid the boxer shorts and plaid shirts pinned to the brick wall, was a pair of potential tourists.
''Where are you from?'' I asked, my heart pounding.
''Tokyo,'' they said, returning my smile.
Asato Koizumi and Akira Miyazaki, both 24, work as buyers at the Gap in Tokyo, and knew about Hickoree's because the store's vintage-style brand, the Hill-Side, has become popular in Japan. They were selecting hats and ties as gifts, and each man bore a faint Mast Brothers chocolate mustache. (Mr. Miyazaki confirmed it by taking his half-eaten hazelnut bar out of his bag.)
Mr. Koizumi proudly showed the ''Made in Japan'' label on the tie. He asked for a picture -- with me and my photographer -- so he could tell his friends that a New York Times reporter had been looking for the Japanese perspective on New York.
It was all very meta.
What did they think of Brooklyn? ''Perfect,'' Mr. Miyazaki said, nodding enthusiastically and apologizing for his English. ''Very creative.''
IF there were no tourists, so be it; I would become one. The German travel site Merian suggested taking the No. 7 train out to Flushing to glimpse ''multikulti,'' listing culturally and ethnically diverse suggestions: from the outdoor graffiti gallery in Long Island City to the Louis Armstrong House in Corona.
''If you take a trip to Corona, you got to love Louis,'' laughed Paul Kalina, 80, a volunteer at the museum. Most of the tourists who come are jazz pilgrims from Europe, he said, though one recently came from Tasmania.
''I love volunteering here,'' Mr. Kalina said, adding that roughly 80 percent of the visitors are foreign. ''Where else can I meet people from all over the world?''
But that unusually quiet day, there were only a few domestic tourists visiting. Still, I enjoyed my private tour of the house preserved as modestly as when Armstrong and his fourth wife, Lucille, lived there. Then my ears pricked up when a woman with two small children inquired about the next tour in a distinctly British accent. Mr. Kalina asked where she was from.
''Park Slope,'' she said, and she laughed with us.
I pressed on, refreshed after a $1 mango Italian ice. I hopped back on the 7 to Astoria for a $9 artichoke, goat cheese, chicken and olive tapenade panino at Il Bambino, which the French guidebook ''Le Guide du Routard'' assured me was ''delicieux.'' It was. The manager, used to a flood of tourists (just not that day), directed me to the nearby Museum of the Moving Image.
This sharply curated museum offered soothing air-conditioning and a respite from the Manhattan crowds. There I met a savvy family from Mexico City, exchanged Manhattan and Brooklyn restaurant suggestions, and took the Q103 bus to my next destination: the Noguchi Museum.
An oasis in industrial Queens, across the street from Costco, the museum's gardens and multiple rooms feature the playful work of the Japanese-American sculptor Isamu Noguchi.
''I am totally blown away by it, it's such a special space, so peaceful,'' said Anna Rader, 29, visiting from London.
If I needed any further evidence that Queens was the anti-Manhattan, my final stop was the year-old boutique Z Hotel in Long Island City, located on warehouse streets trying hard not to be shabby in the shadow of the Queensboro Bridge. This and other hotels in Queens have become popular alternatives for the more intrepid international tourists from Brazil, Australia and Germany seeking bargains. At the Z, several foreign visitors beamed about their deals: one week, $1,000, including breakfast, for some.
Nine people stuffed into the hotel's free hourly limousine service, a 1989 black Cadillac, that dropped them off at Bloomingdale's. ''Instead of seeing the backs of buildings, we see them all,'' said Greg Pye, 53, from Swansea, Wales, gesturing at the Midtown Manhattan skyline. ''And it's a third of the price.''
BUT as I knew it would, Manhattan beckoned, the siren call too loud to tune out. I just had to hold my breath and talk to tourists in Times Square -- if only for the experience.
''This is as authentic as it gets,'' said Elvis Herbine, 26, an architect from Kingston, Jamaica, snapping a picture of his friend and his family on a weekday afternoon. Video screens flashed dizzily around us.
''This is what we know America to be like because of the media,'' Mr. Herbine said. ''This is what we envisioned, and, actually, it superseded that.''
I lasted another 11 minutes (tracking a Belgian woman joyfully biting into her first New York hot dog), before I fled to a rooftop bar overlooking the Empire State Building. Six summers ago, when the bar, 230 Fifth, opened, we all flocked to the novel sprawling perch, which seemed to follow the trend of uber-popular places -- first attracting a downtown crowd, then a suburban one, and finally an international set, carrying bags full of Times Square trinkets.
This time, I did not have to wait long to confirm the trend. Sonia Serra and her husband, Matteo Ciarlanate, from Florence, Italy, similarly fled Midtown to seek authenticity.
''For me, it is not Times Square,'' Ms. Serra, 37, said in Italian, sipping a Cosmopolitan. ''It is the daily lives of American people, the diversity. It's so diverse, much more so than in Italy.''
The couple had fun people-watching in Washington Square and Bryant Park, but when I asked them about their favorite part of New York, they shouted in unison: ''Coney Island!''
Down the block from the bar, I retreated to Madison Square Park. There I found Michel Bourbonnais, 52, gazing wondrously at the Flatiron Building and the MetLife Tower with the clock, as he sat down on a bench, his hip aching.
It was his second trip to New York in two years. As a master electrician from the Quebec town of Saint-Polycarpe (population, about 1,900), Mr. Bourbonnais was again struck by the city's magnitude and its multitudes. New Yorkers, he marveled, were far nicer, their city far cleaner, than he expected.
Not even a minute later, a volunteer wearing a Madison Square Park T-shirt reached between the two of us to pluck out a candy wrapper through the fence with a stick. ''As a stranger,'' Mr. Bourbonnais told the volunteer, ''I appreciate it.''
The man, a New Yorker since 1977, smiled as if he had not often heard that.
LIKE the Japanese searching for gifts with story value, I became entranced by these small moments of intimacy. I found myself less interested in the attractions and more energized by the tales I collected of the tourists themselves.
We are all looking for a connection. New York, despite its vastness and diversity, has the power to unite strangers and friends, visitors and locals alike. This is what tourists taught me along my odyssey, no more so than when I traveled with them in Harlem and the Bronx on the Birthplace of Hip-Hop Tour.
Dionne Nazareth, 21, was taking iPhone pictures on the bus with four friends from Perth, Australia. They had met dancing at the clubs there, though they were all from somewhere else: Dubai, Singapore, Somalia, Sudan and Moscow.
''Hip-hop brought us together,'' Jamal Osman, 24, originally from Somalia, said in the lobby of the Apollo Theater. And it brought them to New York.
As four-hour excursions go, this was no double-decker affair, but a tour in a minibus with leather seats, led by a pioneer in the industry: the 52-year-old rapper and producer Kurtis Blow. Most of the two dozen participants were hip-hop devotees or D.J.'s back home in New Zealand or Germany. There was a young family from Atlanta, a couple from Milwaukee, a mother from Paris, translating for her two teenage sons.
We stopped to shoot three-pointers at Rucker Park in Harlem and stood outside a nondescript apartment building, 1520 Sedgwick Avenue in the Bronx: the site of the house party that sparked the hip-hop movement. We imagined that August 1973 day when D.J. Kool Herc spun tunes for his younger sister's birthday and the beat blasted off the surrounding apartment towers and into music history.
During the tour, local rappers got on the bus and randomly performed. When Mr. Blow led the group in singing the Sugarhill Gang's ''Rapper's Delight'' and his own ''The Breaks,'' I had an '80s flashback.
The group of Australian friends shouted ''Ho!'' as we all did in corny unison, thinking this was so classic that it was cool.
As we got off the bus at 106th and Park to admire the graffiti murals, Ms. Nazareth was overcome by emotion. She had to blink to realize this was not the New York of her music videos or the raps that she had memorized while growing up in Dubai. This was real.
''It's really exciting,'' Ms. Nazareth exclaimed. ''When you see it on TV, and you're finally in it, I get goose bumps.''
The sun was broiling, yet I had them, too.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PACKED STREETS: A group from Brazil navigating Times Square. International visitors accounted for 10.6 million of the 50.9 million people who came to the city last year, according to NYC and Company, the mayor's marketing and tourism organization. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
VIEW: At 230 Fifth, a bar not far from the Empire State Building. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HISTORY: Hip-hop lovers outside 1520 Sedgwick Avenue in the Bronx, the scene of the house party that birthed hip-hop. A break-dance lesson, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 NOT JUST A T-SHIRT: At left, Asato Koizumi, 24, of Tokyo, shopped at Hickoree's Floor Two in Brooklyn. Many Japanese tourists say they want to bring home gifts with an authentic connection to the city. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (70%); FASHION & APPAREL (68%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (68%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (64%); FERRIES (62%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



811 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Easing Home Equity Standards

BYLINE: By VICKIE ELMER

 BODY:
AS home values continue to stabilize in many areas, lenders are making home equity loans more accessible.
A report published in June by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency noted that one in five lenders nationwide loosened up underwriting standards on home equity loans, while another 68 percent kept them unchanged from a year ago. In 2009 -- during the heart of the housing crisis -- no lenders had eased standards, according to the report, which surveyed 87 banks with assets of $3 billion or more, while 78 percent had tightened them.
Lenders also have been lowering the credit scores and equity levels needed to qualify, industry experts say. ''You may not need to have as much equity as lenders may have demanded two years ago, when housing prices were going to fall,'' said Keith Leggett, a senior economist at the American Bankers Association. This is especially true, he said, in areas where home prices are appreciating. 
Nearly 90 percent of homeowners in the New York metropolitan area now have some built-up equity, versus 77 percent nationwide, according to a recent report from the data analytics firm CoreLogic.
Navy Federal Credit Union, with over three million members nationwide and five branches in the New York region, is among those easing qualifications, based on its periodic analysis of borrowers' lending performance. ''We have gone to lower credit scores,'' said Steve Krieger, a vice president for mortgage collections and equity lending.
Mr. Krieger says the credit union's evaluation of home equity applications is based on several criteria, including: the amount of equity available in a home; a borrower's income; and a loan-to-value ratio. (As little as 5 percent equity may be enough to qualify.) Someone who has been in a job for just two or three months ''will be dinged a bit,'' he noted.
Lenders calculate the loan-to-value ratio by adding the home equity loan amount to the mortgage balance and then dividing that by the property's value. Today, 80 to 90 percent would be the highest acceptable ratio, according to Jeanie Melendez, a vice president for market growth and development consulting at Wells Fargo Bank.
Those considering a home equity loan should begin the process by estimating how much equity they might have available in their homes. Mr. Krieger suggested checking recent comparable sales in the neighborhood at online sites like Zillow.com. ''You can get into the ballpark of what your home is worth,'' he said, though he pointed out that as part of the application process the lender generally requires an official appraisal.
Borrowers must decide whether they want a traditional home equity loan, sometimes called a second mortgage, which has a fixed interest rate and fixed payments, or a home equity line of credit, known by its acronym, Heloc. A line of credit usually has a variable rate and can be drawn down incrementally. The variable-rate Heloc is one and a half percentage points lower than the fixed-rate home equity loan, which in turn is around three percentage points above the average 30-year fixed-rate conventional mortgage.
Borrowers should also note loan restrictions. For example, Navy Federal does not allow home equity loans to be used for small-business investment or to buy a second home, while JPMorgan Chase does not allow them to be used on educational costs. (Some loans are actually audited after closing, to check.)
Wells Fargo, one of the nation's largest mortgage lenders, has no such restrictions. ''I don't think folks are using it to buy a fur or a big-screen TV,'' said Ms. Melendez, who is based in Boston and oversees the New York region. ''They're being more careful about how they're using their home as an asset.''
Ms. Melendez says that although Wells has not made changes to its lending criteria, it has been seeing increased demand for home equity borrowing, largely to pay for home improvements and college education.

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate(Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); HOME EQUITY LENDING (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (87%); PERSONAL FINANCE (87%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); HOME EQUITY CREDIT LINES (78%); MARKET SIZE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (75%); SECOND MORTGAGES (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BUSINESS ANALYTICS (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

COMPANY: NAVY FEDERAL CREDIT UNION (68%); WELLS FARGO & CO (58%); CORELOGIC INC (55%); ZILLOW INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (58%); CLGX (NYSE) (55%); Z (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522130 CREDIT UNIONS (68%); SIC6061 CREDIT UNIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (68%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (55%); NAICS524127 DIRECT TITLE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (55%); SIC6361 TITLE INSURANCE (55%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



812 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2747 words

HEADLINE: Desert Pitch

BYLINE: By PICO IYER. 
Pico Iyer is the author of 10 books, including ''The Global Soul'' and, most recently, ''The Man Within My Head.''

 BODY:
A HOLOGRAM FOR THE KING
By Dave Eggers
312 pp. McSweeney's Books. $25.
Where is our new-millennium Norman Mailer? It's startling, 50 years on, to look back at the work of Mailer in the 1960s -- from ''The Presidential Papers'' to ''The Armies of the Night'' -- and see such unabashed ambition, such reckless audacity and such a stubborn American readiness to try to save the Republic from itself and bring it back to its original promise. Mailer's very titles -- ''Advertisements for Myself,'' ''An American Dream'' -- told us he was on a mission, committed to the transformation of country and self, and even as he gave himself over to unremittingly private (and epic) meditations on God, the Devil, cancer and plastics, he was also determined to remake the civic order. He ran for mayor of New York City, he tried his hand at directing movies and in 1955 he helped start an alternative weekly known as The Village Voice. Part of the exhilaration of Mailer was that he cared so ravenously even when he failed; he was shooting for the moon even when he shot himself in the foot. 
Dave Eggers comes from a much more sober, humbled, craft-/loving time, and his latest novel is the opposite of a failure: it's a clear, supremely readable parable of America in the global economy that is haunting, beautifully shaped and sad. But for all the difference between their generations, you can feel in Eggers some of the hunger, the range and the unembarrassedly serious engagement with America and its ideals that gave Mailer's work such force. Eggers asserted his bravado -- along with some tonic self-/mockery -- in the very title of his first book, ''A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius'' (a title of which Mailer would have been proud); he followed it up with a very different kind of book, a novel, ''You Shall Know Our Velocity,'' about the impenitent determination of two young Americans to travel the world giving money away. Yet even as he has written seven substantial books in 12 years, Eggers has also established his own publishing house, bristling with attitude and backward-looking invention. He's started two magazines whose names (Timothy McSweeney's Quarterly Concern and The Believer) openly declare their interest in homemade whimsy and optimism -- or, you could say, in the past and in the future. He's established nonprofit writing and tutorial centers across the country and, in his spare minutes, helped write two feature movies, ''Where the Wild Things Are'' and ''Away We Go.''
Like Mailer, he's almost underrated precisely because he's so ubiquitous and dares us to mock him with his unapologetic ambitions. Yet where Mailer was consciously working in a deeply American grain, with his talk of revolution and transcendence, Eggers speaks for a new America that has to think globally and can't be sure where the country fits on the planetary screen. And where Mailer was bent on showing us how America could remake the world, Eggers, with ferocious energy and versatility, has been studying how the world is remaking America. Most of our great contemporary examinations of cultural sampling and bipolar belonging come from writers with immigrant backgrounds. It's invigorating, in that context, to see how Dave Eggers, born in Boston to classic fifth-generation Irish stock (his mother was a McSweeney) and raised in Lake Forest, Ill., has devoted himself to chronicling the shifting melting pot, seeming to tell others' stories more than his own.
In his fourth major book, ''What Is the What,'' he gave us a nonfiction novel about Valentino Achak Deng, a Sudanese ''Lost Boy'' who survives wars at home and refugee camps abroad only to find that his problems are by no means behind him when finally he gets to Atlanta, and the Land of the Free. Some critics may have bristled at the notion of a young white American writing the story of a real-life African villager, but it took a writer of Eggers's artistry (and vulnerability) to give Deng's story its heartbreaking power. In his next (nonfictional) work, ''Zeitoun,'' Eggers turned the story of Hurricane Katrina into a brilliantly structured and propulsive narrative whose all-American protagonist just happened to be a Muslim house-painter brought up in the Syrian coastal town of Jableh, married to a former Southern Baptist from Baton Rouge and eager to construct a new life through hard work and tending to others. The American Dream, the author was reminding us, is coming to us now in Arabic.
In both ''Zeitoun'' and ''What Is the What,'' Eggers's heroically self-effacing prose revealed the people we blindly walk past on our city streets every day. ''Zeitoun,'' in fact, began as part of a Voice of Witness series of oral histories through which Eggers is hoping to inform us of those faraway places whose destinies are ever more central to our own. Like Mailer, Eggers seems ready to take America by the scruff of its neck and ask us what we're going to do about injustice and a sense of community; but where some writers celebrate America as a home for second lives and triumphant reinvention, Eggers seems bracingly wary of happy endings, as if convinced that our real work is still ahead of us.
In ''A Hologram for the King'' -- a kind of ''Death of a Globalized Salesman,'' alight with all of Arthur Miller's compassion and humanism -- Eggers at once pushes that project forward and, characteristically, gives us an entirely different and unexpected story. Alan Clay is a 54-year-old self-employed consultant (as everyday and malleable as his name) first introduced on the 10th floor of a glassy Hilton in Jeddah, where he's come to try to redeem his fortune, and America's. Day after day Alan is driven, usually late, to a large white tent in the desert -- part of the King Abdullah Economic City, or KAEC (as in ''cake'') -- where three young colleagues sit around with laptops waiting to show a holographic teleconferencing system to King Abdullah, on behalf of Reliant, an American company that is ''the largest I.T. supplier in the world.'' Day after day, the king fails to arrive and the Americans lie around, fret about the absence of Wi-Fi and kill time in the emptiness. Desperate for something to happen, Alan lances a cyst on his neck with a crude knife -- and later a needle -- just to feel the blood flow.
''Hologram'' flashes past in an appropriately quick series of brief, displacing passages with plenty of space around them for us to feel the vacancy and nowhereness; if Mailer attached himself to Hemingway in honor of the older writer's unabashed competitiveness and machismo, Eggers here is drawn more to the best thing in Hemingway, his style of clean lines and sharp edges. Scene after scene is so clear and precise -- ''A plume of smoke unzipped the blue sky beyond the mountains,'' a ''pair of headlights appeared as a blue sunrise beyond the ridge's ragged silhouette'' -- that it's easy to overlook just how strong and well wrought the writing is.
The vast empty spaces of the desert stand, of course, for the holographic projections that now determine Alan's (and America's) destiny, while Saudi Arabia, a puritan kingdom where everyone seems to be boozing on the sly, is the perfect Other that constantly confounds and defeats its New World visitors. In the long, empty days Alan befriends a penguin-shaped young Saudi who tools around in a 30-year-old Caprice and sports Oakley sunglasses above his handmade sandals (he once spent a year in Alabama); he meets lonely expats and looks in on an embassy debauch where a man in a spacesuit is ''feigning weightlessness.'' Every detail perfectly advances a vision of American aspiration at a time of economic collapse and midlife crisis: just two floors below a gleaming condo in the desert that speaks for the virtual future that the Saudis (and Americans) are counting on is another room where 25 foreign laborers are squeezed into a tiny space, exchanging blows over a discarded cellphone.
Yet even at home, we come to see, Alan has been living in a house for sale where he's taken for a ''ghost''; he's run out of money to pay his daughter's college bills, and the only one who has ever fought for him is his ''constantly cruel ex-wife.'' Over a long career working for Fuller Brush and Schwinn bicycles and a dozen others, he's somehow encouraged the outsourcing of manufacturing that has led to both him and his country becoming redundant. In Florida, he eats from vending machines, and in his home in suburban Boston he watches old Red Sox DVDs again and again. At the book's opening, his neighbor Charlie, who's recently discovered transcendentalism and speaks (as Mailer might have) of ''grandeur and awe and holiness,'' walks into a lake to his death. In Alan's America, even Walden Pond has become a cesspool.
Eggers's command of this middle-/management landscape is so sure -- and his interest in the battle between humanity and technology so insistent -- that his book might almost be a DeLillo novel written for the iPhone Generation, though delivered by DeLillo's more openhearted and Midwestern nephew. Eggers's inhabiting of the terms and tics of a distinctly American consciousness is as remarkable as, in earlier books, his channeling of Sudanese and Syrian sensibilities. He knows how businessmen, faced with a terrible proposal, will say, ''Let's table it for now''; he registers how door-to-door salesmen point out, ''A stranger rings, a friend knocks''; he cites the wisdom of Jack Welch. To a world of glass and emptiness -- ''I feel like a pane of glass that needs to be shattered,'' Alan tells another consultant -- he brings his rather old-fashioned interest in neighborhood values and service. And his Saudi Arabia sounds to me note-perfect, from the soldier seated in a beach chair next to a Humvee, soaking his feet in an inflatable pool, to the secret drag races in the desert.
Nearly every action in the book carries a symbolic resonance: each time Alan is approached by a foreign woman, he becomes disengaged and, in fact, impotent, and when finally he does go into a local hospital for his cyst, he's worked on by a team made up of Chinese, English, German, Italian, Russian and mongrel Lebanese medical professionals. Yet underneath the global blueprint is a story human enough to draw blood. Anyone who's traveled will recognize the plaintiveness and vague menace of the Saudis who loom before Alan, or the likable Saudi Panza who tries to scroll to a Fleetwood Mac song on his iPod as Alan prepares to tell him another corny joke. The buddy movie is clearly a significant form for Eggers, but, like Hollywood, he has upgraded it: from the frat-boy do-goodism of ''You Shall Know Our Velocity'' to a vehicle that features a young Muslim and an aging American, and asks what happens when velocity gives out.
At first glance, a reader might wonder what a story about a flailing American businessman trying to win a contract over the Chinese in the Saudi desert has to do with Eggers's celebrated memoir about losing both of his parents within five weeks at the age of 21, and tending to his younger brother. But the strength of all his work comes from his sense of loss and pain, mixed with his decidedly American wish to try to bring his orphaned characters to a provisional shelter. It's Eggers's tragic sense -- ''Were scars the best evidence of living?'' he writes here -- that gives fiber and nuance to his desire for something better, and ensures that his hope for some kind of understanding never becomes merely sentimental. Alan speaks for something essential to Eggers -- and poignant -- in his constant oscillation between the wish to do the right thing and his awareness that he doesn't have a clue what the right thing might be.
Like Mailer, in other words, Eggers has a vision, with the result that there's nothing random about the projects he takes on or the ways he pursues them; to the casual observer, he may seem all over the place, but underneath the wild diversity of his interests is a profoundly searching and meticulous craftsman who could hardly be more focused. ''A Hologram for the King'' is, among other things, an anguished investigation into how and where American self-confidence got lost and -- in the central word another lonely expat uses for Alan -- ''defeated.'' At one point, a fellow passenger on a plane mentions to Alan how even the Statue of Liberty is depicted moving forward, so committed is America to the future tense; four /pages on, Alan recalls being told, at length, about how an all-important contract for blast-resistant glass in Freedom Tower, built on the ashes of the World Trade Center, has been given to a Chinese company, working (to compound the insult) from an American patent.
In places, the book becomes almost a nostalgic lament for a time when life had stakes and people worked with their hands, knew struggle. Alan's father, a World War II veteran who still has shrapnel in his lower back, rages at his son for helping to take business abroad; the deeper sorrow is the suggestion that moral clarity and a sense of purpose also got outsourced in the process. As he mourns the decline of a time when men were more in touch with their animal selves and an outer wilderness could save us from a wilderness within, Alan reminisces about the hunting trips he took with his dad as a boy, thinks about the time he took his daughter to see one of the last launchings of the space shuttle at Cape Canaveral (and they met an old-fashioned, in fact Maileresque, American hero and explorer, an astronaut). When Alan is invited by a local friend to a Saudi mountain village, he tries to reach back to a world of John Wayne certainties and, cradling a gun, blows up the one human connection he's so happily made.
This may all sound a little too much like metaphor -- or romanticism -- but Eggers's sense of loss is hard-earned and his feeling for his characters as affectingly real as his epigraph from Beckett (''It is not every day that we are needed''). At times, his book reminds one of Douglas Coupland's deeply wistful tales of Generation X's search for belief and direction, at other times of the weightless suburban drifters of Haruki Murakami's world, all but longing (in ''The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle,'' say) for an earlier era of intensity and war. A sense of impermanence and possible disaster is always very close in Eggers's work -- here it's sometimes devouring -- and that is what makes his good nature and hopefulness so rending, and so necessary. Every now and then he pulls back from his engagingly stumbling characters to suggest a larger order: ''The work of man is done behind the back of the natural world. When nature notices, and can muster the energy, it wipes the slate clean again.''
In the end, what makes ''A Hologram for the King'' is the conviction with which Eggers plunges into the kind of regular working American we don't see enough in contemporary fiction, and gives voice and heft to Alan's struggles in an information economy in which he has no information and there's not much of an economy. At one point, with nothing to do, Alan starts writing to his daughter to persuade her to forgive her mother, the ex-wife who has all but destroyed him. ''People think you're able to help them and usually you can't,'' he writes. ''And so it becomes a process of choosing the one or two people you try hardest not to disappoint.'' Such is the fragility of Alan's situation, though, that even that modest hope seems far from guaranteed, mostly because Alan is such a non-virtual man, the opposite of a hologram.
Norman Mailer probably hated the fact that many of us consider his great, essential narrative to be his ''nonfiction novel'' about Gary Gilmore, ''The Executioner's Song''; the whole long, tragic story is delivered with extraordinary documentary fidelity and restraint, and yet only someone as obsessed as Mailer was with rebellion and possession could have invested the tale with such intensity. In much the same way, Eggers has developed an exceptional gift for opening up the lives of others so as to offer the story of globalism as it develops and, simultaneously, to unfold a much more archetypal tale of struggle and loneliness and drift. Public and private explorations come together, and as this groundbreaking writer grows wiser and deeper and more melancholy, evolving from telling his own stories to voicing America's, he might be asking us how we can bring the best parts of our past into a planetary future.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY LORI NIX) (BR1)
1998
2000
2002
2006
2009
2012 (BR12)
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF DAVE EGGERS BY PAOLO VESCIA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BR13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PUBLISHING (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (67%); MAYORS (67%); SHOOTINGS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) NEW YORK, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: A Hologram for the King (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



813 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1614 words

HEADLINE: A Real-Life Fairy Tale, Long in the Making And Set to Old Tunes

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
It's a real-life tale of talent disregarded, bad luck and missed opportunities, with an improbable stop in the Hamptons and a Hollywood conclusion: A singer-songwriter is signed to a contract in the late 1960s after producers with ties to Motown Records see him playing in a smoky Detroit nightclub called the Sewer. He makes a pair of albums that sell almost nothing and then drops out of sight. So why, 40 years later, would anyone feel compelled to make a movie about this obscure artist, known professionally as Rodriguez?
Because, as it turns out, on the other side of the globe, in South Africa, Rodriguez had become as popular as the Rolling Stones or Elvis Presley. But he never knew of that success. He never saw a penny in royalties from it, and he spent decades doing manual labor to make ends meet and raise his three daughters. It wasn't until fans in South Africa, trying to verify rumors he was dead, tracked him down through the Internet and brought him there to perform to adoring multitudes, that his career was resuscitated. 
''This was the greatest, the most amazing, true story I'd ever heard, an almost archetypal fairy tale,'' said Malik Bendjelloul, the Swedish director of ''Searching for Sugar Man,'' a documentary that opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. ''It's a perfect story. It has the human element, the music aspect, a resurrection and a detective story.''
Because of an odd confluence of circumstances it is also a story unlikely ever to occur again. In the era before the World Wide Web, South Africans, living under apartheid and isolated from the main currents of pop culture by domestic censorship and international sanctions, had no idea that Rodriguez languished in anonymity elsewhere. The singer himself compounded the situation by seeking to live as inconspicuously as possible.
On another, somewhat more oblique level, Mr. Bendjelloul acknowledged, ''Searching for Sugar Man'' can also be interpreted as a meditation on the fickle and arbitrary nature of celebrity and fame. We live in a culture, the film suggests, in which talent and quality sometimes go ignored, and when they get belated recognition, even that is often through happenstance.
''I've produced a lot of big-name artists with big hits, like Peter Frampton and Jerry Lee Lewis, but I've never worked with anyone as talented as Rodriguez,'' Steve Rowland, who produced the singer's second album, ''Coming From Reality,'' said in a telephone interview from his home in Palm Springs, Calif. ''I never understood why he didn't become a big star, so to see him rise like a phoenix from the ashes, it's just as inexplicable, but it makes me really, really happy this is going on for him, because he's a wonderful, humble person, and he really deserves it.''
''Searching for Sugar Man'' takes its title from ''Sugar Man,'' a bleak portrait of a drug dealer and his clients that is the first track on Rodriguez's debut album, ''Cold Fact,'' released in March 1970. Other songs by him that are featured in the film, like ''I Wonder,'' ''Inner City Blues'' and ''A Most Disgusting Song,'' address sexual and social mores, politics and economic and racial inequities -- qualities that, the film explains, made them extremely attractive to young white South Africans opposed both to apartheid and the Calvinist morality that then prevailed in their country. Some even credit Rodriguez with raising their consciousness about the government's oppression.
When Mr. Bendjelloul first heard of Rodriguez's saga, in 2006, during a long African trip in which he was looking for ideas for his first feature-length film, he figured that someone in South Africa had already beaten him to the subject. ''Every single rock you looked under, you'd find another gold coin,'' he said of the information he gathered about Rodriguez's life and music.
But Mr. Bendjelloul, 34, the son of an Algerian doctor and a Swedish painter, soon concluded that ''the reasons the South Africans didn't do anything about this story was that it was too familiar to them. Everybody knows it.'' Since he had made programs on pop stars like Elton John, Kraftwerk and Bjork while working on Swedish television, he decided to plunge ahead on a course that for a while seemed as doomed as his subject's career.
There was, for example, the challenge of gaining the cooperation of Rodriguez, who is ''very private and had to force himself to do this, I think for the sake of the work,'' as Mr. Bendjelloul put it. Initially the musician's response was, ''You already have so many people, you don't need me,'' Mr. Bendjelloul recalled.
''I was skeptical about the whole idea of my being in a film,'' Rodriguez (his full name is Sixto Rodriguez, though he uses only his surname) said in an interview this month, a day after ''Searching for Sugar Man'' was screened at the Hamptons International Film Festival. ''I'm not a visual guy. I'm audio. I'm a musician. I know what I do. I play guitar, and in my category I'm doing O.K.''
Rodriguez, who turned 70 this month, learned his instrument from his father, a Mexican immigrant who went to Detroit to work in the auto plants. Musically he is steeped in the singer-songwriter protest tradition of the 1960s, having heard Tim Hardin, Fred Neil, Tom Paxton and Phil Ochs. ''And of course I've been into Dylan forever, and also Barry McGuire, the whole 'Eve of Destruction' thing.''
After his recording career collapsed, in 1972, Rodriguez, whose live performances were hampered by his habit of playing with his back to the audience, took construction jobs, demolishing and renovating houses and living modestly. In both the film and in person he seems remarkably serene about the opportunities he lost and the difficulties he had to endure.
''You can't linger too much on your decisions, so yes, I chose to face reality,'' he said. ''I'm a family person, and you make those choices. You have to embrace it, my father used to say. You don't hold it over there, where it can hurt you. There's no shame in hard work.''
In the bohemian Cass Corridor of Detroit, the same neighborhood that was a haven to the MC5, Iggy Pop, Creem magazine and the White Stripes, Rodriguez became a familiar figure, a lean, spectral presence dressed in black like Johnny Cash, a beloved eccentric who walked everywhere in the city and had no telephone, which complicated the South Africans' search for him. But he also earned a degree in philosophy, specializing in logic and ethics, and dove into politics, even running for mayor of Detroit.
If ''Searching for Sugar Man'' has a ''villain'' -- the word the actor Alec Baldwin, a fan of the film, used in a discussion following the Hamptons screening -- it is Clarence Avant, owner of the boutique label Sussex that released Rodriguez's two records. A former chairman of Motown Records, Mr. Avant reacts derisively on screen when asked why Mr. Rodriguez never made any money from his success in South Africa.
''You think it's something I'm going to worry about, a 1970 contract?'' he responds. ''If you do, you're out of your goddamn mind.''
Reached by telephone Mr. Avant, 81, said he had seen the finished film and now regrets having been so flippant with a camera rolling. ''I had nothing to do with where the money went,'' he said. ''I don't know who the South Africans were paying, and I don't know who had my foreign rights.''
Asked who currently controls the Rodriguez recordings and the associated song publishing rights, Mr. Avant answered, ''I do.'' Mr. Bendjelloul said that even now Rodriguez ''still gets nothing from his South African sales,'' but Mr. Avant said that would soon be remedied as a result of a deal he has made with Universal Music, whose publishing company may be the largest in the music business.
But Rodriguez's story also has an unsung hero, a South African record-store owner named Stephen Segerman. He first heard the artist's protest songs when he was drafted into the South African Army, where, he says ''Rodriguez's music was for us like what Hendrix and the Doors were for the guys in Vietnam.'' Years after being mustered out, still fixated on the music and shocked to learn it was unknown in the United States, he decided he had to learn what had become of his idol.
''I wanted this man to be known in his own country, though I didn't know how that was going to happen'' in the era before the Internet, Mr. Segerman said in a telephone interview from Capetown. ''He's that special, he really is, and so everyone involved with him is happy to do this, because his proper audience is Americans, not South Africans or Australians.''
''This is a story that keeps having happy endings,'' Mr. Segerman, whose nickname, naturally, is ''Sugar Man,'' continued. ''Things like this just aren't supposed to happen in real life.''
Thanks to the buzz generated by the awards that ''Searching for Sugar Man,'' distributed by Sony Pictures Classics, has won on the festival circuit, and especially the extraordinarily emotional response of audiences, Rodriguez now finds his American career fully revived. He is scheduled to embark on his first national tour this summer and has been booked to appear on the ''Late Show With Dave Letterman'' next month. On Tuesday Sony's Legacy label will release a soundtrack CD with newly mastered versions of 14 of the songs he recorded more than 40 years ago.
So has Rodriguez given up construction? ''Well, you never throw away your work clothes,'' he replied. ''But this thing is like a monsoon.''
Even without the money, he added, ''there have already been rewards just from the opportunity to do all this. I guess we all want to get there right away, but I believe it's never too early, never too late.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The singer-songwriter Rodriguez. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HAL WILSON/SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)(AR1)
Rodriguez, top, at the Hamptons International Film Festival and, inset, in a scene from ''Searching for Sugar Man.'' Above, the director Malik Bendjelloul. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NICOLE BENGIVENO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 SONY PICTURES CLASSICS)(AR14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); FILM (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ROYALTIES (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); MUSIC (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CENSORSHIP (70%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) SOUTH AFRICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Searching for Sugar Man (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



814 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; CRIME; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Rigged

BYLINE: By MARILYN STASIO

 BODY:
Ghosts have always roamed freely through James Lee Burke's haunting mysteries set in the Louisiana bayous and featuring Dave Robicheaux, a sheriff's deputy in Iberia Parish. ''I believe their story has never been adequately told and they will never rest until it is,'' the Cajun detective says in CREOLE BELLE (Simon & Schuster, $27.99), referring to the ghosts of plantation slaves, Confederate soldiers and uprooted Acadians he sees in the watery mists.
Robicheaux is in a New Orleans clinic recovering from gunshot wounds when a zydeco singer named Tee Jolie Melton appears to him with a Dr Pepper, an iPod filled with his favorite tunes, and a weird story about defective parts on an oil rig. In the real world, Tee Jolie hasn't been seen in months, but whether she's a morphine vision or an actual spook, she awakens Robicheaux's fury over the blowout of a well that has fouled the Gulf eco/system, triggering one of his heartbroken laments for the unspoiled paradise of his youth. 
Burke is the reigning champ of nostalgia noir -- violent stories in which big strong men get all weepy about the ruination of their beloved home place and take vengeance on the predatory villains responsible for the devastation. To be sure, the destruction of a pristine natural environment is a thematic staple of the regional crime novel, but nobody can touch Burke in the lyrical expression of howling grief.
With his history of ''alcoholism, depression, violence and bloodshed,'' Robicheaux is the properly flawed hero for this tale of epic woe, which expands from oil-/drilling disasters and missing singers to take in drug running, human trafficking, art forgery and Nazi war criminals. ''I wanted to see the rain wash clean all the surfaces of the earth, as it did in Noah's time,'' Robicheaux declares.
But if the rain won't come, blood will do just as well. For this, he turns to his sidekick, Clete Purcel, a mountain of a man who plays the avenger to Robicheaux's redeemer. The twist is that Clete has just discovered he has a daughter who may be the hired assassin gunning for him and his friends. ''Had his seed produced a psychopath?'' he wonders. That's an unsettling thought for someone who has Technicolor nightmares about all the bad things he's done, but a good question for a novel that shows how the sins of the fathers poison the ground their children walk on.
The small towns where Martin Walker sets his enchanting country mysteries embody the sublime physical beauty and intractable political problems of the Dordogne region of France. Bruno Courreges, the peaceable chief of police in the fictional village of St. Denis, would ideally spend his days tending his vineyard, coaching the local rugby team and cooking up fabulous feasts for his friends. But in THE CROWDED GRAVE (Knopf, $24.95), he has to contend with PETA militants tearing down the goose pens of local farmers and Basque terrorists provoked by a summit between France and Spain, not to mention the remains of a modern-day murder victim that turn up at an archaeological dig. But Bruno's biggest headache is the repressive new magistrate, a staunch foe of the hunt, a vegetarian and (quelle horreur!) a teetotaler who doesn't appreciate the hedonistic joys of his lovely valley. She'll learn.
Could anyone be lonelier than a mother who's been ostracized by all the other mothers at her child's primary school? Louise Millar puts that onus on the heroine of her first novel, THE PLAYDATE (Emily Bestler/Atria, paper, $15), a disturbing psychological thriller that probes the insular lives of social misfits in a London suburb. The three women in this narrative have cause to be unhappy. Callie, whose little girl has a heart defect, can't break through the other parents' hostility toward an unemployed and insolvent single mother. Callie's best (indeed her only) friend, Suzy, the outgoing mom of three boys, has a high-earning mate and no money worries. But her husband neglects her, and being American is reason enough for her to get the cold shoulder. Debs, the pathologically antisocial older woman who has just moved onto their street, has a husband at home, but not in her bed. The balance of their social dynamic abruptly shifts when Callie returns to her old job, unwittingly posing a threat to her neighbors and endangering the life of her child.
Christopher Brookmyre opens his new novel, WHERE THE BODIES ARE BURIED (Atlantic Monthly, $25), with a provocative line: ''It didn't seem like Glasgow.'' And so it doesn't -- at least not the Glasgow of his previous mysteries, which exist in some surreal universe where strange people are forever doing peculiar things. The main characters in this smartly written mainstream detective story aren't a bit odd. Detective Superintendent Catherine McLeod is a respected officer whose job with the organized crime unit puts her in the middle of a nasty turf war between two local gangs. She has a quick wit and a tart tongue (''Plenty of people have to live in gangland. Just none of the gangsters''), but a failed actress named Jasmine Sharp is a better prospect for character development. Having dropped her studies after the death of her mother, Jasmine was rescued by her mother's cousin, who took her into his one-man detective firm and was training her in investigative work when he suddenly disappeared. Although Brookmyre deftly twists one case around the other, he hasn't quite figured out how to make his two players work as a team.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (78%); SHERIFFS (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (77%); CHILD TRAFFICKING (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); POLICE FORCES (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); WAR CRIMES (71%); HUMAN TRAFFICKING (71%); SHOOTINGS (70%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (70%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (70%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (64%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (55%); COUNTERFEITING (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (92%); AQUITAINE, FRANCE (70%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (70%)

TITLE: Creole Belle (Book); The Crowded Grave (Book); The Playdate (Book); Where the Bodies Are Buried (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



815 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1032 words

HEADLINE: Taking the High Road

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH. 
Abby Goodnough is a reporter for The Times in Boston.

 BODY:
HIGH SCHOOL was a lost cause for Priscilla Rivera, a child of the downcast mill city of Holyoke, Mass. ''I went to school with the attitude, 'Oh, this is hard, and I'm not going to do it,' '' Ms. Rivera said recently. ''After a while, the teachers gave up on me. They were like, 'If you don't want to do your work, just put your head down.' ''
She dropped out after the ninth grade, had a baby a year later and went on welfare. Two years ago, the state referred her to the Care Center, an alternative education program where young mothers work toward their G.E.D.'s, and can get parenting instruction, college-transition support and other services. 
For much of last year, Ms. Rivera, now 21, also studied philosophy, art, literature and history, just as students do at Smith, Amherst and the cluster of other elite colleges in this region of western Massachusetts. She was one of several young mothers enrolled in the Clemente Course in the Humanities, a program for the poor offered by the Care Center and about 15 other organizations across the country. The course aims to provide what Earl Shorris, who started it at the Roberto Clemente Family Guidance Center in New York City in 1995, called ''an avenue to reflection.'' Such avenues are hard to come by in Holyoke, which has among the highest dropout and teenage pregnancy rates in the state.
Mr. Shorris, who died in May, rejected the notion that the poor should focus on learning practical skills to prepare for mostly low-paying jobs. He believed that studying the humanities would teach them how to reflect on the world, putting them on more equal footing with the privileged class.
The course is taught by local college professors at the Care Center, which provides transportation and child care. It is held two days a week and is open to low-income women of all ages as well as Care Center regulars like Ms. Rivera. Those who complete the course will earn six credits from Bard College, which oversees the program nationally. This year's students, from age 18 to 58, included homeless women, victims of domestic violence, recovering addicts and others for whom day-to-day existence is often excruciating.
''There's a way in which the course asks people to examine their life and what they are seeing around them more deeply,'' said Anne Teschner, the Care Center's executive director. ''Living in poverty can be very constricting, so to bring those more expansive ideas into the world of people struggling economically is really empowering.''
One day in March, Ms. Rivera and her classmates sat in a basement classroom discussing the preamble to the Declaration of Independence. The students questioned why it was necessary. One asked, ''Why isn't the list of grievances enough?'' Jeffrey Singleton, who teaches the course's history segment, explained how the document had been read aloud throughout the colonies, making the case for revolution.
After class, Ms. Rivera said she was savoring the history lessons. Before, she said, ''I had no clue about anything that went on. I always wondered, why do we have the Fourth of July? Why do we have presidents? I remember a little from high school, but it just went through one ear and out the other.''
Tiffany Jones said she preferred the literature segment because the teacher would ''make an assignment about what we read, but it was also about us.'' Now 21, she had left high school after her sophomore year, had two babies and has bounced around homeless shelters. ''We wrote more about ourselves,'' she offered. ''True life stories.''
Kritzia Garcia, a 22-year-old mother of a 4-year-old girl, was excited about the philosophy segment, during which the class read Plato and Aristotle and discussed the importance of philosophical inquiry. On the first day, she told the class about how she had been kicked out of a Pentecostal Bible school as a child for questioning the existence of God. ''I've been trying to figure life out forever,'' she said. ''I want answers.''
Art history proved less popular with all three young women, who were not happy that so many of the paintings they studied were religious.
''I don't think it's fair for a teacher to bring religion into it because some people ain't brought up like that,'' Ms. Jones said. ''We've got these older ladies in the class that make me feel uncomfortable because they're all church people. They know everything about the Bible, and I'm sitting there like, 'O.K.' So it's hard.''
Ms. Rivera was frustrated to the point of sobbing about having to write about her reaction to a painting of the crucifixion. ''I said, 'You want to know what I feel about this picture?' Nothing. Because I'm not a religious person. My mom never forced me to go to church, because her mom forced her.'' Ezra Parzybok, who tutors the Clemente students, helped Ms. Rivera pick up a pen and start writing. ''Ezra's there hugging me -- 'Come on, you can do it,' '' she said, smiling at the memory. ''But before he pushed me, I was this close to giving up.''
By late May, the class had turned to moral philosophy. One rainy afternoon, they discussed Martin Luther King Jr.'s ''Letter From a Birmingham Jail.'' Ms. Rivera and Ms. Jones sat quietly while older students debated whether nonviolent protest was the surest way to effect change. As it turned out, they were anxious and distracted: the two young women were retaking the math portion of the G.E.D. exam the next day. They had passed four parts of the test -- language arts, social studies, science and reading -- but had failed the math.
''I declare and demand that I'm going to pass that test,'' Ms. Rivera said.
She did not. But she would try again soon, in hopes of enrolling at Holyoke Community College this fall and eventually transferring to Smith. Ms. Jones, who failed the math section for the third time in May, said she hoped to work for a while before trying again (the center encourages its students to focus full time on education).
Both women graduated from the Clemente course in late June, though. ''I had never really had anything good in my life,'' Ms. Jones said. ''I don't have nobody, so for me to do it by myself and not have anybody telling me to do it, it shows I'm really trying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN TRANSIT(ION): Priscilla Rivera, with her son, studies art, philosophy and for the G.E.D. exam. (ED22)
 SUPPORT SYSTEM: The Care Center in Holyoke, Mass., provides transport, books and child care. Tiffany Jones, left, with sons and Kritzia Garcia with daughter. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (79%); HIGH SCHOOL EQUIVALENCY (79%); POOR POPULATION (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (75%); PARENTING SUPPORT (74%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); ALTERNATIVE SCHOOLS (73%); PARENTING (70%); LITERATURE (68%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (66%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (65%); EXECUTIVES (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



816 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 3963 words

HEADLINE: Please Be eAdvised

BYLINE: By MARC PARRY

 BODY:
This article is part of a collaboration between The New York Times and The Chronicle of Higher Education, a daily source of news and opinion for professors, administrators and others interested in academe. Marc Parry is a technology reporter for The Chronicle.
CAMPUSES are places of intuition and serendipity: a professor senses confusion on a student's face and repeats his point; a student majors in psychology after a roommate takes a course; two freshmen meet on the quad and eventually become husband and wife. Now imagine hard data substituting for happenstance.
As Katye Allisone, a freshman at Arizona State University, hunkers down in a computer lab for an 8:35 a.m. math class, the Web-based course watches her back. Answers, scores, pace, click paths -- it hoovers up information, like Google. But rather than personalizing search results, data shape Ms. Allisone's class according to her understanding of the material.
With 72,000 students, A.S.U. is both the country's largest public university and a hotbed of data-driven experiments. One core effort is a degree-monitoring system that keeps tabs on how students are doing in their majors. Stray off-course and a student may have to switch fields. 
And while not exactly matchmaking, Arizona State takes an interest in students' social lives, too. Its Facebook app mines profiles to suggest friends. One classmate shares eight things in common with Ms. Allisone, who ''likes'' education, photography and tattoos. Researchers are even trying to figure out social ties based on anonymized data culled from swipes of ID cards around the Tempe campus.
This is college life, quantified.
Data mining hinges on one reality about life on the Web: what you do there leaves behind a trail of digital breadcrumbs. Companies scoop those up to tailor services, like the matchmaking of eHarmony or the book recommendations of Amazon. Now colleges, eager to get students out the door more efficiently, are awakening to the opportunities of so-called Big Data.
The new breed of software can predict how well students will do before they even set foot in the classroom. It recommends courses, Netflix-style, based on students' academic records.
Data diggers hope to improve an education system in which professors often fly blind. That's a particular problem in introductory-level courses, says Carol A. Twigg, president of the National Center for Academic Transformation. ''The typical class, the professor rattles on in front of the class,'' she says. ''They give a midterm exam. Half the kids fail. Half the kids drop out. And they have no idea what's going on with their students.''
As more of this technology comes online, it raises new tensions. What role does a professor play when an algorithm recommends the next lesson? If colleges can predict failure, should they steer students away from challenges? When paths are so tailored, do campuses cease to be places of exploration?
''We don't want to turn into just eHarmony,'' says Michael Zimmer, assistant professor in the School of Information Studies at the University of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, where he studies ethical dimensions of new technology. ''I'm worried that we're taking both the richness and the serendipitous aspect of courses and professors and majors -- and all the things that are supposed to be university life -- and instead translating it into 18 variables that spit out, 'This is your best fit. So go over here.' ''
ALERT! YOU ARE OFF-TRACK
EVER since childhood, Rikki Eriven has felt certain of the career that would fit her best: working with animals. Specifically, large animals. The soft-spoken freshman smiles as she recalls the episode of ''Animal Planet'' that kindled this interest, the one about zoo specialists who treat rhinos, hippos and giraffes. So when Ms. Eriven arrived at Arizona State last fall, she put her plan in motion by picking biological sciences as her major.
But things didn't go according to plan. She felt overwhelmed. She dropped a class. She did poorly in biology (after experiencing problems, she says, with the clicker device used to answer multiple-choice questions in class). Ms. Eriven began seeing ominous alerts in her e-mail in-box and online student portal. ''Off-track,'' they warned. ''It told me that I had to seek eAdvising,'' she says. ''And I was, like, eAdvising?''
Yes, eAdvising. Universities see such technology as one answer to a big challenge. On average, only 31 percent of students at public colleges get their bachelor's degree within four years, and 56 percent graduate within six years. Such statistics have come under greater scrutiny as parents and politicians demand accountability from colleges. Tennessee, for example, doles out higher education dollars in part by measuring how effective an institution is at graduating students.
Yet some students show up with ambitions that bear no relation to their skills. Or parents push them into a major that doesn't interest them. Or they feel like shoppers in a cereal aisle, confounded by the choices.
At Arizona State, which has more than 250 majors, the old system let students explore without much structure. A student could major in engineering to please his parents, only to pack his schedule with ''Chinese Thought'' and music, says Elizabeth D. Capaldi, the provost. No longer. Technology has redrawn the road map.
Under Arizona State's eAdvisor system -- in use from 2008-9 and based on a similar effort at the University of Florida -- students must pick a major freshman year and follow a plan that lays out when to take key courses. (Students can still study broadly, by choosing from five ''exploratory'' majors, like ''arts and humanities'' or ''science and engineering,'' and staying in them for 45 credits.) If they fail to sign up for a key course or do well enough, the computer cracks a whip, marking them ''off-track.'' Wander off-track two semesters in a row, and a student may have to change majors.
If that sounds harsh, there's a rationale: One way to ensure that students will reach the finish line is to quickly figure out if they've selected a suitable track. So the A.S.U. system front-loads key courses. For example, to succeed in psychology, a student must perform well in statistics.
''Kids who major in psych put that off, because they don't want to take statistics,'' Ms. Capaldi says. ''They want to know: Does their boyfriend love them? Are they nuts? They take all those courses, then they hit statistics and they say: 'Oh, God, I can't do this. I can't do experimental design.' And so they're in the wrong major. By putting those courses first, you can see if a student is going to succeed in that major early.'' Arizona State's retention rate rose to 84 percent from 77 percent in recent years, a change Ms. Capaldi credits largely to eAdvisor.
For students who run off-track, the outcome can sting. Ms. Eriven was shocked to learn she would have to change her major after the system flagged her. She cried, called her mother, and recalibrated her plans. In a meeting with an adviser, she detailed her interests. She likes science. She is family-oriented, interested in music, and good at writing. The adviser suggested a few possible majors, including psychology, family and human development, and creative writing.
Writing. It would involve only a couple of classes each semester. She could still take science and, hopefully, switch back to biology. So that's what she chose. ''I didn't really have, like, a backup plan,'' Ms. Eriven says.
But what if you could rewind this story and shape a student's path before reaching such a crossroads?
YOU WILL PASS (OR NOT)
WHEN Adam Lange began working full time at Rio Salado College in 2008, he was still an undergraduate at nearby Arizona State, a 22-year-old computer science major with a budding obsession with data. Over time, that obsession would shape the learning experience for thousands of students -- and drive his fiancee bonkers.
Mr. Lange's idea of fun is converting his home into a surveillance lab. He outfitted his cat Sammy, who has an eating disorder, with a device that is read by a scanner every time the cat cranes his neck over the bowl. Mr. Lange monitors the logs and feeds Sammy a treat if he hasn't eaten. He also rigged a webcam next to his fish tank, logging the coordinates of his Betta fish several times a second to find out what common paths it takes and how far it travels (90 feet in one hour!).
At Rio Salado, a community college with about 70,000 students, 43,000 of them online, Mr. Lange got excited about the behavioral data students leave behind: the vast wake of clicks captured by software that runs Web courses. Records of when they logged in, opened a syllabus, turned in homework -- all of it just sitting there. Could you mine it to model patterns of students who succeeded in the past? Use that to identify current ones likely to fail? And then help those students? Many educators are now asking similar questions.
Mr. Lange and his colleagues had found that by the eighth day of class they could predict, with 70 percent accuracy, whether a student would score a ''C'' or better. Mr. Lange built a system, rolled out in 2009, that sent professors frequently updated alerts about how well each student was predicted to do, based on their course performance and online behavior.
To Mr. Lange, the underlying math doesn't differ much from what he might deploy in his fish espionage. Say the Betta makes two consecutive movements side to side, and then swims upward 85 percent of the time. In the future, if the fish moves left and then right, Mr. Lange can say with confidence that he'll then swim up. Similarly, Rio Salado knows from its database that students who handed in late assignments and didn't log in frequently often fail or withdraw from a course. So the software is more likely to throw up a red flag for current students with those characteristics.
''There's a predictability about the fish,'' says Mr. Lange, now 26 and working for Ellucian, a higher-education software company. ''The same concept applies to students.''
The software can help the individual professor identify students who may need extra help. But Rio Salado's experiments with more formal intervention strategies have yielded mixed results. And in a cautionary tale about technical glitches, the college began sharing grade predictions with students last summer to encourage those lagging behind to step up, but it had to shut the alerts down in the spring. Revisions to courses had skewed calculations, and some predictions were found to be inaccurate over a period of about five days. An internal analysis found no increase in the number of students dropping classes. An improved system is promised for fall.
YOU MAY ALSO LIKE . . .
AUSTIN PEAY STATE, a midsize university about 45 minutes northwest of Nashville, takes the algorithmic approach to higher education one step further. Before students register for classes, a robot adviser assesses their profiles and nudges them to pick courses in which they're likely to succeed.
The project is the work of Tristan Denley, a programmer turned math professor turned provost. Mr. Denley's software borrows a page from Netflix. It melds each student's transcript with thousands of past students' grades and standardized test scores to make suggestions for every student. When students log into their online portal, they see 10 ''Course Suggestions for You'' ranked on a five-star scale. For, say, a health and human performance major, kinesiology might get five stars (as the next class needed for her major). Physics might also top the list (to satisfy a science requirement in the core curriculum).
Behind those recommendations is a complex algorithm, but the basics are simple enough. Degree requirements figure in the calculations. So do classes that can be used in many programs, like freshman writing. And it bumps up courses for which a student might have a talent, by mining their records -- grades, high school grade-point average, ACT scores -- and those of others who walked this path before.
''We're steering students toward the classes where they are predicted to make better grades,'' Mr. Denley says. The predictions, he adds, are within about half a letter grade, on average.
The prediction process is more subtle than getting a suggestion to watch ''Goodfellas'' because you liked ''The Godfather.'' Take the hypothetical health major encouraged to take physics. The software sifts through a database of hundreds of thousands of grades other students have received. It analyzes the historical data to figure out how much weight to assign each piece of the health major's own academic record in forecasting how she will do in a particular course. Success in math is heavily predictive of success in physics, for example. So if her transcript and ACT score indicate a history of doing well in math, physics would likely be recommended over biology, though both satisfy the same core science requirement.
Mr. Denley points to a spate of recent books by behavioral economists, all with a common theme: When presented with many options and little information, people find it difficult to make wise choices. The same goes for college students trying to construct a schedule, he says. They know they must take a social science class, but they don't know the implications of taking political science vs. psychology vs. economics. They choose based on course descriptions or to avoid having to wake up for an 8 a.m. class on Monday. Every year, students in Tennessee lose their state scholarships because they fall a hair short of the G.P.A. cutoff, Mr. Denley says, a financial swing that ''massively changes their likelihood of graduating.''
''When students do indeed take the courses that are recommended to them, they actually do substantially better,'' he says. And take them they do. Last fall, 45 percent of classes on student schedules were from top-10 recommendations, 57 percent from their top 15. Though these systems are in their infancy, the concept is taking hold. Three other Tennessee colleges have adopted Mr. Denley's software, and some institutions outside the state are developing their own spins on the idea.
Some express concerns about deferring such important decisions to algorithms, which have already come to dictate -- and limit -- so much of what we see and do online. Mr. Zimmer, the Milwaukee information-studies professor, sees the value in preventing students from going down paths that may frustrate them or cause them to quit college. But as higher education gets more efficient, he fears the loss of the unanticipated discovery.
''It's the same as if you're worried about whether or not Google or Amazon are going to present you with alternative topics, or only the topics that fit your history,'' he says. ''We hope the role of a university is to make sure people are exposed to diverse things and challenged.''
In Class: Direction Through Data
AT Arizona State, algorithms figure in course content, too. Thousands of A.S.U. students now take math courses through a system that mines performance and behavioral data, building a profile on each user and delivering recommendations about what learning activity they should do next. The system, created by the start-up company Knewton, has given the university a fresh way of addressing the continuous problem of students being unprepared for college math. But it also offers a glimpse into what many more students will experience as teaching increasingly shifts from textbooks and lectures that feed the same structure of information to a class of 300, regardless of individual expertise, to machines that study their users' learning patterns and adapt to them.
That excites some educators. George Siemens, a data-mining expert at the Canadian distance-learning university Athabasca, calls the traditional approach an inefficient model ''that generates a fair degree of dropouts.''
Knewton dismantles that model. Ms. Allisone's 8:35 a.m. class is not a lecture. Although students are supposed to show up at a fixed time, and an instructor is there to work with them, the action is on screen. Knewton allows Ms. Allisone to skip past some concepts she gets, like factors and multiples. When she struggles with inverting linear functions, the software provides more online tutoring. Two students who complete the same lesson might see different recommendations as to what to do next, based on their proficiency.
As the company develops and works with more data and content -- major universities like University of Nevada, Las Vegas, are adopting its technology, as is the publishing giant Pearson -- it will tailor instruction more finely. What time of day does a student best learn math? What materials and delivery styles most engage the student? Say you have the same concept explained in a video, in a textbook-like format and in Socratic steps. Knewton will associate a student's ''engagement metrics'' with those styles and use that to help determine the next step.
But what sounds flashy may be based, at least in part, on flawed assumptions, warns Richard E. Clark, professor of educational psychology and technology at the University of Southern California. He says there is no evidence that there are ''visual'' learners who benefit from video over text, as Knewton implies. Studies, he says, have shown that ''learning styles'' are not effective for shaping instruction.
The broader problem with data mining, as Mr. Clark sees it, is that it is seldom done right. Data analysts often make ''questionable assumptions'' about the meaning of keystrokes, he says. They assume students who are spending the most time on some learning material are most interested in that content, for example. ''That assumption may be true when people choose to watch Netflix movies but is not at all the case in many university courses where few choices are available,'' Mr. Clark says.
Meanwhile, dismantling old models leaves both professors and students adjusting to new roles.
Suzanne Galayda, an Arizona State math instructor, finds it takes longer to penetrate the wall of computer screens and build rapport with students. In her remedial class, they start off feeling uncomfortable asking questions. But even as software elbows her off center stage, it also helps her play her part with far more information -- so much data about what students do, and when, that it sometimes surprises them.
''Students don't realize that we're watching them in these classes,'' she says.
Ms. Galayda can monitor their progress. In her cubicle on a recent Monday, she sees the intimacies of students' study routines -- or lack of them -- from the last activity they worked on to how many tries they made at each end-of-lesson quiz. For one crammer, the system registers 57 attempts on multiple quizzes in seven days. Pulling back to the big picture, a chart shows 15 students falling behind (in red) and 17 on schedule (in green).
On Wednesday, Ms. Galayda rubs her hands with satisfaction. The bar is mostly green. Mostly. When class meets, she taps her nails on the hard drive of Carolina Beltran's computer. ''You were working on it at 4 a.m.,'' the instructor tells the student.
''Yeah, I mean, like, I sleep. My sleeping schedule is weird,'' Ms. Beltran stammers.
Arizona State's initial results look promising. Of the more than 2,000 students who took the Knewton-based remedial course this past year, 75 percent completed it, up from an average of 64 percent in recent years.
In Ms. Galayda's experience, students ''either love it or hate it.''
Ms. Allisone raves: ''I learned more in this semester than I have in a year in high school.'' She praises the clarity and concision of the system's instructional videos, contrasting that with the many teachers who ''have issues communicating correctly.''
But another freshman, a health sciences major who requested anonymity because she did poorly for two semesters, recalls a downward slide that began when she started falling a couple of lessons behind. That scared her at first, until she talked to her peers. Some were six lessons behind. Twelve, even. How bad could two be? She didn't sweat it. As she juggled social life, work and other classes, math fell through the cracks. She ended up having to retake the course, a case study in the danger of giving self-paced classes to freshmen.
''I like lecture better,'' she says. ''I'm not used to teaching myself. So it was a huge adjustment.''
THE SOCIAL NETWORK
THESE experiments are only the beginning. Colleges will likely dig deeper into the data at their disposal, touching more and more aspects of student life. Already, some researchers are eyeing the next frontier: social life.
Research shows that social ties can influence academic success. If students are more integrated into campus life, they're more likely to stay in school. If a friend drops out, they're more likely to as well.
''If the university could model, at a high level, the social network of the college, that would be a very useful data layer,'' says Matt Pittinsky, who co-founded Blackboard, a company that provides a platform for online classes, and later became an assistant research professor in the sociology program at Arizona State. A university might reach out to a student ''who is not showing evidence of social integration,'' Mr. Pittinsky says, pointing out extracurricular activities and communities that might tie them more deeply to the institution.
Working with computer scientists, Mr. Pittinsky started an academic research project that tiptoes toward a better understanding of social connections. The research team's raw material: anonymous logs from swipes made with Arizona State ID cards. When students use these cards, be it to buy food on campus or access the fitness center, the transaction gets recorded. The question that struck Mr. Pittinsky was whether or not you could infer social ties from those trails.
Say two students swipe within 5 or 10 seconds of each other at different times of day in different contexts. Are they more likely to be friends? And can you predict attrition by pinpointing changes in how a student uses a campus? Say someone goes to Starbucks at 2 p.m. every day before 2:15 p.m. class. Then stops. ''If that happens three weeks in a row,'' Mr. Pittinsky says, ''and we're not seeing log-ins into Blackboard, and maybe you've made a request at the registrar to have your transcript sent somewhere, there ought to be an adviser with a really big red flashing light saying, reach out to this student.''
The prospect of card-swipe surveillance discomforts Mr. Zimmer. He worries authorities might misuse location data to do things like track foreign students or instigators of a student protest.
But the broader issue of privacy hangs over even less Orwellian efforts to collect and monitor personal data. In his own courses, Mr. Zimmer includes a disclaimer on his syllabus disclosing what he can see through Milwaukee's online-learning platform, including ''the dates and times individual students access the system, what pages a student has viewed, the duration of visits, and the IP address of the computer used to access the course Web site.''
For his part, Mr. Pittinsky stresses that the card-swipe research is ''very focused on the ability to protect anonymity.''
As for students, they've never been too fond of adults meddling on Facebook, let alone getting all Big Brother with card swipes. ''Creeping on us'' is how Ms. Allisone describes the card-swipe project. Ms. Allisone has managed to keep one aspect of her life -- she hopes to transfer -- from any ''creeping.'' But that, too, may change.
Arizona State monitors requests for transcripts to be sent elsewhere, according to Ms. Capaldi, the provost. ''Which,'' she says, ''is kind of sneaky.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Likes: tattoos, photography, education.
Swiped ID card, Starbucks, 2:01 p.m. and 4:44 p.m.
25 math lessons to go before Monday. Get cracking!
Likes: tattoos, photography, education.
Psych major. eAdvisor is watching. Take statistics now.
Swiped ID card, Starbucks, 2:02 p.m. and 4:43 p.m. Are you friends?
Likes: tattoos, photography, education. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY) (ED24)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY KNEWTON) (ED25) GRAPHICS: Advising by Algorithm: At Austin Peay State University in Tennessee, a program called ''Degree Compass'' provides students with a customized list of course recommendations based on degree requirements as well as predicted grades. Here is how the lists are generated. (Source: Tristan Denley, Austin Peay State University) (ED26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); DATA MINING (77%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (74%); SCHOOL GRADE REPORTS (73%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (71%); BIG DATA (70%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%); GOOGLE INC (58%); FACEBOOK INC (54%); NETFLIX INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARIZONA STATE UNIVERSITY (84%); AUSTIN PEAY STATE UNIVERSITY (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); FB (NASDAQ) (54%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (53%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (90%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



817 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; HANDLEBARS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: From Cruiser to Cooler: Ryca CS-1

BYLINE: By DEXTER FORD

 BODY:
El Segundo, Calif.
LIGHTWEIGHT, laid-back and mechanically straightforward, the Suzuki Boulevard S40 has all the makings of a sensible beginner's bike -- a stigma that would normally narrow its appeal to only the newest of riders.
But to Casey Stevenson and Ryan Rajewski the S40 is an ideal starting point for something far more ambitious. They see the single-cylinder S40 as a blank canvas, the foundation for a runabout with a retro-cool appeal that can draw young urban riders. 
Their company, Ryca Motors of Whittier, Calif., has intervened on behalf of the cruiser-style S40, producing a parts kit that rescues the bike from its usual role as a none-too-attractive Harley-Davidson Sportster replica and gives it the identity of a classic cafe racer.
When the transformation is complete, the bike's spare lines echo those of single-cylinder machines from the likes of BSA and Norton, popular in the 1960s among enthusiasts who stripped them to the basics and raced one another over country lanes between British roadhouses. That cafe-racer style -- signified by low-mounted handlebars, footpegs repositioned to the rear and barely muffled exhaust pipes -- eventually grew into a trend.
The cafe racer is enjoying a resurgence today, to the point of being seen as downright hip. But this time it's image-conscious young Americans stripping inexpensive Japanese bikes.
Ryca's CS-1 is a thoughtfully engineered kit that includes custom bodywork, suspension parts and controls of its own design. The Suzuki that serves as its basis has been manufactured nearly unchanged since the '80s -- it still uses a carburetor to feed its air-cooled 652 cc engine.
Mr. Stevenson, the Ryca's designer, is an ex-NASA engineer who saw potential in the S40's unprepossessing chassis. He reshaped and downsized the fuel tank, and created a sleek seat, tail section and side panels. Longer shock absorbers at the rear and a shortened front fork leveled the machine's stance, and rear-set footpegs and clip-on handlebars completed the makeover.
That prototype looked and worked so well that Mr. Stevenson and Mr. Rajewski decided to offer a conversion kit. In the two years since, more than 300 kits have been sold, Mr. Rajewski said.
The basic package sells for $2,495, not including shipping or, for that matter, a donor bike, which costs anywhere from $800 for a neglected 1986 model, then known as a Savage, to $5,699, including shipping, for a 2012 S40 from a dealer.
Assembly is required. Buyers send the factory fuel tank and rear-wheel hub to Ryca, where the tank is reshaped, reducing its capacity to about 2.2 gallons from the original 2.8, and the wheel is relaced to fit an 18-inch rim.
Ryca details the entire process in a series of YouTube videos. But for riders who'd rather not get their hands dirty, Ryca will build an all-new CS-1, using a showroom-fresh S40, for about $9,500, depending on options. Ryca is also encouraging bike shops to buy kits and do conversions locally.
On the street, the Ryca turns heads in a way that mass-produced machines do not. It's striking and original, with its own aura of a classic thumper mixed with new-millenium chic. I was inspired to drag out my black racing leathers to stay in character: my usual brilliant yellow riding jacket was not going to cut it with the too-cool motorcycle subculture here in Los Angeles.
The Ryca feels tight and tiny, a natural for in-city commuting and short-haul cafe hopping. The riding position is tolerable and the low seat height is perfect for smaller, lighter riders.
The Suzuki engine is smooth, torquey and responsive, its exhaust crackling on downshifts like a Norton Manx slowing for the Creg-ny-baa section of the famed Isle of Man racecourse.
Brakes and suspension are not quite up to racing standards. The Ryca kit's shock absorbers are too flaccid for any but the lightest, slowest riders, and the stock Suzuki fork, its travel reduced two inches by internal spacers, is just as uninspired. The front brake, a small single disc, requires a determined pull on the lever.
None of these problems are deal-breakers. The basic frame, engine and riding position are sound. Stiffer springs front and rear, higher-viscosity fork oil and stickier front brake pads would be economical upgrades.
But if the CS-1 is not nearly as fast through a set of switchbacks as it looks, does it at least pass the hipness test? The two giggling teenage girls who chased me up Interstate 405 in their Camry just to snap it on their iPhones voted yes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: CAFE RACER: A parts kit from Ryca Motors turns a Suzuki Boulevard S40 into a retro machine. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEXTER FORD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



818 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1478 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
AS RELIGIOUS TENSIONS RISE,
INDONESIA TURNS BLIND EYE
Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim-majority country, has long been considered a place where different religious and ethnic groups can live in harmony and where Islam can work with democracy. But that perception has been repeatedly brought into question lately, with an apparent rise in religious extremism and signs of growing sectarian tensions. PAGE 7
NEW ROLE FOR YEMEN REBEL
The state in Yemen was always weak, and even before a civil conflict last year, local chieftains had much autonomy and power. But now opposition voices like that of Sheik Hamoud Saeed al-Mikhlafi, marginalized under the long authoritarian rule of President Ali Abdullah Saleh, have gained increasing influence as the government in Yemen has grown even weaker. PAGE 9 
DEATHS IN PAKISTAN BOMBING
A suicide bomber killed at least nine people, including four children, in Pakistan's tribal belt as part of what local officials said was a violent rivalry between two militant groups. PAGE 8
FIGHTING THE MOB IN ITALY
In a mob stronghold in Italy, a literary festival where authors talk about their books on criminal organizations, and visitors browse through anti-Mafia paraphernalia is helping to breach an ingrained wall of silence, bred of a mixture of fear and resignation, and fueling a national fad for books about the country's powerful gangs. PAGE 10
CLASHES GROW IN SYRIA
Syrian troops clashed with rebels in the city of Aleppo for a second day, forcing inhabitants to flee to safer areas in some of the fiercest fighting to date in a crucial bastion of support for President Bashar al-Assad, according to activists. The rebels are trying to seize the momentum after battles in the capital. PAGE 10
National
DISNEY LENDS STAR POWER
TO REAGAN, AND VICE VERSA
In an unusual collaboration of presidential scholarship and mass-market entertainment, the Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation and the Walt Disney Company have joined to open a sprawling exhibition drawn from the Disney archives. PAGE 11
GETTING PAID FOR H.I.V. TESTS
The District of Columbia is trying to find people who are infected with H.I.V. but do not know it by offering tests in grocery stores, on corners where addicts gather and even in motor vehicle offices -- and paying people to take them. PAGE 12
New York
WAITING FOR CHECK-IN
AT THE WRONG AIRPORT
With three major airports less than 20 miles from Midtown Manhattan, New York is one of a small number of cities around the world where travelers can find themselves trying to check in at the wrong airport. Visitors are sometimes tripped up by the fact that La Guardia, Kennedy and Newark Liberty International Airport form their own kind of Bermuda Triangle. PAGE 21
FOLLOW THAT TOURIST
The New York that tourists visit seems to rarely intersect with the city that residents see every day, Liz Robbin writes. She decided to hop into that parallel universe known as Tourists' New York with a loose itinerary of recommendations culled from French guidebooks, German Web sites and Japanese magazines. PAGE 20
LOW-WAGE WORKERS STRUGGLE
Despite job growth in certain knowledge-class and service sectors, unemployment has been rising in New York City. While it is a very good time to be moving to the city with a Stanford M.B.A., it is far harder for those seeking low-wage work. Big City, Ginia Bellafante. PAGE 20
Sports Sunday
WHITE SOX TRY TO BALANCE
RESULTS AND POTENTIAL
The White Sox are trying to hang on to first place in the A.L. Central with the veteran pitchers John Danks and Gavin Floyd on the disabled list. They need 23-year-old Chris Sale to help stabilize their rotation, but they also want to maximize his long-term potential. His is an interesting case about how to manage the workload of a phenom, writes Tyler Kepner. PAGE 2
SOCCER AT YANKEE STADIUM
The new Yankee Stadium will host an exhibition match between European champion Chelsea and the French power Paris Saint-Germain. It will be the first soccer game in the new stadium, carrying on a tradition that began at the first House That Ruth Built in 1931. PAGE 8
AN ARTIFACT OR A PAYDAY
Don Larsen's decision to auction his 1956 perfect game uniform, which had been on display at the San Diego Hall of Champions, could have broad implications for museums in possession of items of significant value but no conclusive proof of ownership. PAGE 2
Obituaries
STUART R. SCHRAM, 88
He was a physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project, a scholar who published in French and German, and an author who wrote a seminal biography on Mao Zedong, whom he spent five decades studying and translating. PAGE 18
ILHAN MIMAROGLU, 86
A composer who wrote electronic music, worked with Charles Mingus on some of Mingus's last albums and was the president of his own record label, Finnadar. PAGE 18
STEPHEN DWOSKIN, 73
He was an experimental filmmaker whose work unflinchingly scrutinized the body and its myriad discontents. PAGE 18
Sunday Business
JOURNEY INTO THE TEETH
OF THE BAILOUT BUZZ SAW
''Bailout,'' a damning book by Neil Barofsky -- the man whose job it was to police the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program bailout fund -- portrays regulators as captured by the very industry they were supposed to be regulating. Fair Game, Gretchen Morgenson. Page 1
WANING CRAFTSMANSHIP
The decline of manufacturing may be resulting in a dilution of craftsmanship -- long a vital ingredient in the American self-image as a can-do, inventive, we-can-make-anything people. Essay, Louis Uchitelle. Page 1
DISTANCE BY DESIGN
The easy-to-open design of Google's new smartphones may be symbolic of its effort to distance itself from Apple, which despite being the leader of the market, seems to design with the object of keeping users locked out. Digital Domain. Page 3
DATA, BUT NOT FOR EVERYONE
Data brokers like the Acxiom Corporation have developed advanced techniques to collect and collate information about consumers' offline, online and mobile behavior. But they have been slow to develop ways for consumers to gain access to the information that companies obtain, share and sell about them for marketing purposes. Page 3
Automobiles
THE HISTORY BEHIND
DODGE'S COMPACT DART
Dodge felt it had sound reasons to apply the Dart name, which it had not used in three decades, to its all new 2013 compact sedans. The new Dart drapes a sharply chiseled body over a chassis shared with the Alfa Romeo division of Fiat, Chrysler's Italian parent. But many young shoppers may have no idea of the half-century of history behind the car's nameplate. Sports, Page 10
Arts & Leisure
OBSCURE IN AMERICA,
BUT A LEGEND OVERSEAS
The film ''Searching for Sugar Man'' charts the strange career of the singer and songwriter Rodriguez, who made a pair of albums in the 1960s that sold almost nothing and then vanished. He never knew about or profited from his fan base in South Africa, where he had become as popular as the Rolling Stones or Elvis Presley. Page 1
Magazine
A MURDERER MAKES A PLEA
FOR HIS FREEDOM
Greg Ousley killed his parents when he was 14. Nineteen years later, he is making a plea to be freed from prison. Page 26
Book Review
DAVID EGGERS' SAD PARABLE
OF AMERICA IN THE WORLD
David Eggers' latest novel, ''A Hologram for the King,'' is a clear and supremely readable parable of America in the global economy, haunting, beautifully shaped and sad, writes Pico Iyer. The book is like a DeLillo novel written for the iPhone Generation. Page 1
Sunday Styles
WITH LEGALIZATION COMES
AN ONSLAUGHT OF NUPTIALS
The legalization of same-sex marriage in some places has resulted in a gay wedding boom, but not everyone wants to attend one wedding after another. Page 1
Sunday Review
TENSION HUMS IN SYRIA
UNDER VENEER OF NORMALCY
Even with the violence, daily life in Syria has gone on: parties, weddings and card games. But not far beneath the surface of the festivities, there is a tangible dread that the 17-month conflict will soon spill onto the streets. Opinion, Janine di Giovanni. Page 1
Editorial
A FORMULA FOR CUTTING HEALTH COSTS
A health care system owned and managed by Alaska's native people has achieved astonishing results in improving the health of its enrollees while cutting the costs of treating them. Sunday Review, Page 10
Op-Ed
BILL KELLER
President Obama has an option that may be a catastrophe. And it may be our best hope. Sunday Review, Page 11
MAUREEN DOWD
''Faust'' comes to Beaver Stadium: A saint in cleats sells his soul to the devil. Sunday Review, Page 11
ROSS DOUTHAT
Our older enemies represented a different form of evil. Now we are confronting nihilists -- terrorists without a cause. Sunday Review, Page 12
FRANK BRUNI
With the return of the Olympic Games, girl power again gets its sweaty, sinewy due. Sunday Review, Page 3
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
The presidential campaign should be about making America the place everyone wants to go to launch their own moon shot. Sunday Review, Page 11

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); AIRPORTS (84%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); ETHNICITY (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORISM (76%); BOMBINGS (76%); LITERATURE (72%); FESTIVALS (71%); CITIES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); ORGANIZED CRIME (68%); WRITERS (67%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (67%); AIDS & HIV TESTING (66%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (82%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) YEMEN (94%); INDONESIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); PAKISTAN (92%); SYRIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



819 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Q & A

BYLINE: By JAY ROMANO

 BODY:
Succession Rights in Stabilized Units
QI've lived in a rent-stabilized apartment for 33 years, and my daughter was born and grew up there. She is 21 now and goes to school full time in another state, but she still considers herself a New York resident, and our apartment her home. Will it be a problem to add her name to the lease?
A ''A landlord of a rent-stabilized apartment is not required to add anyone to a renewal lease other than a spouse of the tenant,'' said James B. Fishman, a Manhattan real estate lawyer. But he said a family member of the tenant may assert succession rights after the permanent departure of the tenant, provided they had lived together for at least two years before the tenant departed and the apartment was a primary residence for each. (The time period is reduced to one year if the potential successor is over 62 or disabled.) ''Attendance at a college out of state does not disrupt the two-year co-occupancy period,'' Mr. Fishman said. The tenant should notify her landlord of her daughter's potential succession claim by submitting Form RA 23.5, provided by the New York State Division of Homes and Community Renewal. 
Rules for Replacing Co-op Board Members
QCan a co-op board remove a member without shareholder approval? If so, how is a replacement chosen?
A Leonard H. Ritz, a Manhattan co-op and condominium lawyer, says it is necessary to review the building's governing documents to determine the board's powers. The bylaws typically specify the rules relating to whether a board can remove a member on its own, and whether it needs ''cause'' to do so, for instance some wrongdoing on the part of the board member. ''The bylaws will also determine whether a board has the authority to fill a seat vacated by a board member who was removed,'' Mr. Ritz said, ''or if the owners get to elect the replacement.''
An Estate Can't Get Co-op Sale Approved
QAs the executor of my aunt's estate, I've been trying to sell her one-bedroom co-op in Queens for over a year. It's worth about $160,000, but the co-op board has an unwritten policy that it won't approve any sales under $170,000. I've had several buyers rejected already. The estate has no money to increase the value of the apartment, and we are running out of money to pay the maintenance. What can we do?
A ''Unfortunately, the estate is in a very difficult position,'' said Craig L. Price, a Manhattan co-op and condo lawyer. Case law has generally held that a co-op may reject potential buyers from buying shares of the co-op for any reason -- except for discrimination, which is prohibited -- without specifically stating the reason. ''Despite the corporation's alleged 'unwritten pricing policy,' '' Mr. Price said, ''unless the estate could prove that the corporation rejected the purchasers based on a discriminatory basis, the corporation would be within its rights to reject the potential buyers.'' If the estate stops making maintenance payments, he added, the corporation can begin a foreclosure proceeding and force the sale of the unit. Allowing the apartment to go into foreclosure might convince the corporation that it is better served approving the estate's next potential buyer than it would be by a long foreclosure proceeding, he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RENT CONTROL (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



820 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; COLLECTING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: The Car Changes But the Name Remains the Same

BYLINE: By JIM KOSCS

 BODY:
IT is entirely possible that young shoppers poking around Dodge showrooms for a view of the brand's just-arriving 2013 compact sedans will have no idea of the half-century history behind the car's nameplate.
Still, the automaker felt it had sound reasons to apply the Dart name, which it had not used in three decades, to this all-important model. The new Dart drapes a sharply chiseled body over a chassis shared with the Alfa Romeo division of Fiat, Chrysler's Italian parent.
''Dart resonated well with younger and older potential compact-car buyers,'' a Chrysler spokeswoman, Kathy Graham, wrote in an e-mail. Older customers, she added, remembered the Dart ''as a reliable car at a good value, and as one of the first value-oriented performance cars.'' To younger ones, the name suggested ''aerodynamics and precision.'' 
The company's use of the Dart name traces back to a show car done by its innovative design chief, Virgil Exner, for 1956. A sleek 22-foot schooner of a machine with a clean, curvaceous figure crowned by soaring tail fins, the Chrysler Dart was fabricated by Ghia, the Italian coachbuilder. It existed for just one year; a styling makeover for the 1957 auto show season pared down the fins, and it was renamed the Diablo.
Dodge first used the Dart badge on a line of large cars for 1960-61, which included the Seneca, Pioneer and Phoenix. The name shifted to a midsize series with rather peculiar styling for 1962.
The Dart most often remembered today, however, is the compact model built from 1963-76 and best known for its affordability and durability.
Introduced as a smoothly styled replacement for the Lancer, the new Dart was built on the light but strong unibody chassis of its slightly smaller corporate cousin, the Plymouth Valiant.
Hitting a sweet spot between the period's compact and midsize models was a Dart selling point. A variety of sedans, coupes, convertibles, station wagons -- even tire-smoking muscle cars -- gave the Dart broad enough appeal to sell some 3.7 million cars over 13 years.
Scott Sigethy fits one of the age groups at which Dodge is aiming the new Dart -- he was born in 1974 -- but he prefers the two Darts he already owns. One is the 1975 sedan that his grandfather bought new after closing his butcher shop in Jersey City. The other is a 1974 model Mr. Sigethy bought more recently near his North Carolina home -- and that he later discovered had been built on the day he was born.
Getting his grandfather's Dart when he was 22 provided Mr. Sigethy with daily transportation and a hobby.
''I took auto shop classes and bought some tools from Sears so I could do my own maintenance and repairs,'' he said in a telephone interview. Dapper in its Silver Cloud paint and black vinyl roof, Mr. Sigethy's well-preserved '75 model epitomizes the ethos of ''economy with dignity'' that inspired loyalty to the Darts of that era. The car, which sold new for $4,297, seems meagerly equipped by today's standards, with an automatic transmission, power steering and split bench front seat among its few options; the car lacks air-conditioning and power brakes. Mr. Sigethy installed a larger carburetor to give the 225-cubic-inch, 6-cylinder engine a bit more pep.
Inherently solid engineering made the early Dart a good candidate for wringing out more performance, despite its original mission as an economy model. In fact, the old version dueled with Alfa Romeos on racetracks -- a curious twist, given that the 2013 Dart's underpinnings came from the Italian brand.
In 1966, an Alfa Romeo GTA won the inaugural race of the Trans American Sedan Championship, or Trans-Am for short, at the Sebring racetrack in Florida. A white Dart driven by Bob Tullius finished second and won the class for cars with engines over 2 liters displacement. Tullius, perhaps best remembered by racing enthusiasts for the Group 44 Racing Triumphs and Jaguars, also piloted the Dart to victory in a 12-hour race at Marlboro Motor Raceway in Maryland.
''In those days, according to the rules, the cars weren't much beyond stock,'' Tullius said from his Florida home. ''The Dart was a good, strong street car. We tweaked the engine, gutted the interior, installed a roll bar, changed springs and shocks, put on better wheels. That was about it.''
Most Dart customers, however, chose the car for the same workaday qualities that once made it Consumer Reports magazine's top choice among compacts: a laudable mix of value, room, quiet engines, comfortable ride and, applying a term popularized by the Dodge Brothers in the 1920s, ''dependability.'' In its 1967 and 1972 annual car wrap-ups, for example, Consumer Reports confirmed a ''better than average'' repair record for the Dart.
The reputation for durability stemmed in large part from an in-line 6-cylinder engine that powered about two-thirds of all Darts sold, including Mr. Sigethy's silver sedan. The cylinder block's 30-degree tilt toward the passenger side -- the source of the engine's Slant Six nickname -- let designers specify a lower hood line, and it made room for efficient fuel and exhaust systems.
Andy Wittenborn of Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., can vouch for the Dart's sturdiness. An auto repair shop he ran for 25 years specialized in Darts and Valiants.
''I should have gotten into more profitable work,'' he joked in a phone interview.
His wife's everyday car is a 1972 Dart Custom sedan bought 20 years ago with 100,000 miles on the odometer. The car, with a 318 cubic-inch V-8 engine, now has over 300,000.
''She tells people, 'I'll drive it as long as he can fix it,' '' Mr. Wittenborn said.
Dodge deftly adapted the Dart to changing times and consumer trends. Tasteful redesigns on the same capable chassis every few years, along with a steady stream of new model variations, helped keep the car fresh and contemporary. A sporty GT model, with 6-cylinder or V-8 power, offered bucket seats and special trim, while the 1967-69 GTS gave the brand another muscle car entry during the heyday of that trend.
In 1968, a 275-horsepower 340-cubic-inch V-8 made the Dart GTS convertible a speedy mount for chasing -- or eluding -- bad guys in the ''Mannix'' TV series.
Played by Mike Connors, the tough-guy private eye Joe Mannix regularly engaged in high-speed chases on twisty mountain roads around Los Angeles. A Chrysler product placement, the Dart received a dark green paint job and light customization by the famed custom-car builder George Barris. ''I've owned about 50 collector cars, but this is by far the coolest one,'' said the current owner of the celebrity Dart, C. Van Tune, who was formerly the editor of Motor Trend magazine. The car had been restored by the previous owner with help from a former Barris employee after it was found languishing at a California park ranger's station.
Mr. Tune says he drives the Dart about once a month, including occasional 100-mile trips into Los Angeles from his home. ''A lot of people recognize it as the 'Mannix' car, probably thanks to the DVD sets out now,'' he said.
By 1970, the most popular Dart model, by a large margin, was a two-door hardtop called the Swinger. A version with the 340 V-8 was a fast muscle-car bargain.
Clever engineering, appealing styling and savvy marketing gave the Dart its best sales years in the early 1970s, even against growing domestic and import competition. Grafting the Dart's front-end sheet metal onto Plymouth's Valiant-based Duster coupe gave Dodge the 1971 Demon. Dodge changed the Demon's name to Dart Sport for 1973.
An optional fold-down rear seat and hand-cranked sunroof made the Dart Sport a ''convertriple'' -- Dodge marketing parlance for a three-cars-in-one coupe that offered, in theory at least, the fresh-air benefits of a convertible and the utility of a small station wagon. A special edition called the Hang 10 flaunted a surfing theme and was, one hopes, the only production car ever to come from the factory with orange shag carpeting.
The ''uncommon luxury'' Dodge promoted in the 1975 Dart SE meant an automatic transmission, velour upholstery and upgraded interior trim, a vinyl roof and hubcaps matched to the body color.
Two low-volume models provided curious bookends in the Dart's final year. Reduced vehicle weight and powertrain tweaks gave the Slant Six-powered 1976 Dart Lite an advertised mileage rating of 36 m.p.g. on the highway. Adjustments to the Environmental Protection Agency's test would surely lower that number in today's terms, but it was still impressive for a car of the Dart Sport's size and room.
Car and Driver, testing American cars for highest speeds, took the V-8-powered Dart 360 Sport up to 121 m.p.h. Only the top Chevrolet Corvette, at about twice the cost, was faster, at 124 m.p.h. The Pontiac Firebird Trans-Am with a 455 cubic-inch V-8 was 4 m.p.h. behind the Dart.
The Dart's replacement, the Aspen, also arrived for 1976, and Dart production continued in Brazil until 1981.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CLOSE-UP: Above, a 1965 Dart GT. Left, Mike Connors, who played the TV detective Mannix, with the '68 GTS convertible he drove in the series. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE BROCHURE COLLECTION OF STEVE HAYES
C. VAN TUNE)(AU1)
1956 Chrysler Dart design study. (PHOTOGRAPH BY VELOCE PUBLISHING)
1973 Swinger Special.
1962 440.
1961 Seneca.
 1973 340 Sport. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM THE BROCHURE COLLECTION OF STEVE HAYES)(AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEDANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); CAR ENTHUSIASTS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); MATURE MARKET (75%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); MEAT STORES (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%)

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (65%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



821 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 22A

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: Reshooting J. R., This Time on Home Territory

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER KELLY. 
ckelly@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
TNT's reboot of the classic television series ''Dallas'' has proved a boon on many levels. The nearly forgotten stars of the original CBS show -- Larry Hagman, Patrick Duffy and Linda Gray -- reprise their roles and have been given a new lease on their careers.
TNT executives, meanwhile, are no doubt pleased with the show's ratings. Since its premiere in mid-June, ''Dallas'' has averaged nearly seven million viewers each week, making it one of the most popular scripted shows on basic cable. 
Perhaps the biggest beneficiary, however, is the city of Dallas. In recent months, the city has experienced a boost in civic pride and tourist activity. It is also enjoying economic benefits that it never got from the original ''Dallas,'' which ran from 1978 to 1991 but was mostly shot in Los Angeles.
The first, 10-episode season of the new ''Dallas'' was filmed throughout North Texas in 2011 and early 2012, injecting an estimated $28.8 million into the local economy. On June 29, TNT announced that it had renewed the show for a second, 15-episode season.
''We didn't want what happened with the first season of the original show to happen again,'' said Janis Burklund, the head of the Dallas Film Commission. ''They did the first season here and then pretty much went back to Los Angeles.''
Ms. Burklund began working to lure ''Dallas'' to its namesake city in 2010. Last year she successfully lobbied the city to approve a $25,000 grant to the production, as well as a $235,000 economic development grant to help finish a privately owned production facility in south Dallas.
Texas has an incentive program for film and television productions, run through the governor's office, and the first season of ''Dallas'' ultimately qualified for a $2.1 million grant because it would pay $7.2 million in wages in Texas, according to Josh Havens, a spokesman for the governor. But this program is not considered as generous as those offered by neighboring states like Louisiana and New Mexico, which is why Ms. Burklund felt her city needed to supplement the state incentives if it hoped to secure the production.
Warner Horizon Television, the show's production company, ''was determined to go with whoever had the best incentives,'' Ms. Burklund said. ''Luckily, the producers saw the artistic value of being here.''
Ken Topolsky, one of the show's producers, said: ''The city of Dallas is trying to make its place in the 21st century. It feels important and dramatic. We felt we had to shoot here.''
In June, shortly after a number of City Council members attended a premiere of the show at the Winspear Opera House, the Council unanimously approved another package, granting the production $200,000 for each new season produced in Dallas, up to $1.2 million over six seasons.
The new ''Dallas'' is also stimulating local tourism, especially at Southfork Ranch in Parker. The ranch, a special event and conference center since 1991, was the fictional homestead of the Ewings in the original show, and a number of scenes from the new ''Dallas'' have been shot there, too. According to Janna Timm, the regional director of sales and marketing for Southfork, the number of visitors has tripled since the show has been on the air, with more than 400 people a day touring the premises on weekends. She also reported a flurry of calls from people hoping to have weddings there.
''One woman already had her wedding planned for New York,'' Ms. Timm said. ''But the day after the show premiered, she called and said she and her husband wanted to have their wedding just like the Ewings. They wanted to have it here.''
Then there is the welcome ego boost that ''Dallas'' is giving local actors and crew members, following a string of high-profile disappointments. In 2010, three new network series set up shop in North Texas, bringing with them the promise of new work opportunities. But ''Chase'' (on NBC), and ''The Good Guys'' and ''Lone Star'' (both on Fox) received poor ratings and were quickly canceled.
''When they all hit at once, there was excitement -- auditions, crew interviews, a big buzz,'' said Brett Brock, a Dallas-based actor who appeared in episodes of both ''The Good Guys'' and ''Chase.'' ''It felt like a big wave was coming. Of course it didn't play out that way.''
The popularity of ''Dallas,'' Mr. Brock added, has the local talent pool excited again. He appeared in the first two episodes of the season, playing a henchman of John Ross Ewing, J. R.'s son, played by Josh Henderson.
As for Dallas residents, no one seems to be complaining. Despite the show's sometimes broad caricatures and reinforcement of longstanding stereotypes about big oil and big hair, the new ''Dallas'' deftly pays heed to a city that has always been proud of its own sheen. The show's opening credits feature brand-new landmarks like the downtown Omni Hotel and the Margaret Hunt Hill Bridge alongside familiar ones like Reunion Tower.
The first few episodes alone set scenes at the American Airlines Center; the Cedars Social, the trendy bar; and even on the 50-yard-line of Jerry Jones's billion-dollar Cowboys Stadium.
''Everywhere I go, I'm hearing from people about how cool it is to see the city on the show,'' Ms. Burklund said. ''And it looks great. When you watch the show, you have to say, 'Wow, our city looks great.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Larry Hagman, right, and Josh Henderson play father and son in TNT's new version of ''Dallas.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ZADE ROSENTHAL/TNT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (86%); CABLE TELEVISION (79%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); FILM (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); CITIES (69%); CITY GOVERNMENT (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); GOVERNORS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); APPROVALS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Dallas (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



822 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; VOWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1673 words

HEADLINE: Bridget Kelly and Eric Strauss

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KELLY. 
Michael Kelly is a columnist for The Omaha World-Herald, for which he has chronicled the attack on his daughter, Bridget Kelly, and her recovery over the last 10 years. He wrote a version of this column for The World-Herald on July 15.

 BODY:
AS daughters do on wedding days, mine took my breath away.
At the joyous reception following the marriage of Bridget Ann Kelly, 34, and Eric Michael Strauss, 39, it came time for the bride and her father to dance. Though everyone said she looked stunning, I inevitably recalled seeing her 10 years earlier -- not in boundless joy but in utter heartbreak.
Tubes protruded from her mouth and her nose. A machine helped her breathe. At 24, she had very nearly lost her life to three gunshots from a stranger.
As I entered her hospital room, just the two of us present, her green eyes met mine in piercing sorrow and grief. 
Now, on her wedding day, we looked at each other in happiness. As our dance began, about 150 relatives and friends looked on. An eight-piece band with a singer performed a song that Bridget had selected.
''I can see clearly now, the rain is gone.''
Bridget grew up in Omaha and graduated from St. Louis University. Eric grew up on Long Island and graduated from Tulane in New Orleans, where he worked for the college television station while studying political economics. He graduated in 1996 and moved back to New York to be a desk assistant at ABC. Through his work he would eventually meet Bridget.
Bridget started her teaching career at Fort Hood, the Army post next to Killeen, Tex. On June 21, 2002, after she picked up a friend from a late flight and dropped her off, Bridget returned to her apartment.
A man who had lurked in the parking lot kicked down her door, abducted and robbed her, and drove her to a secluded field. He raped her, shot her in the back three times and drove off.
She had terrible internal wounds (and would need a colostomy bag all summer), but her legs worked. She somehow made it 200 yards to the home of her first hero that night. Frank James, an Army veteran, called 911 after recognizing the gunshot wounds, covered her with a blanket and comforted her until rescuers arrived. Her life was saved in six hours of surgery at the Carl R. Darnall Army Medical Center at Fort Hood.
The crime and Bridget's story, first reported in The Omaha World-Herald and The Killeen Daily Herald, soon drew wider interest because she wanted the rape to be reported in the articles with her name as the victim. At the request of the Texas Association Against Sexual Assault, she returned to the field where she was attacked and made a video that was shown statewide as part of a public awareness campaign. Her message -- that she had done nothing wrong and bore no stigma or shame -- resonated with many.
She was invited to speak at anti-violence rallies and to 900 people at a sexual-assault conference in San Francisco. She is now a trained volunteer advocate for the Sexual Assault and Violence Intervention program through the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. She sits with survivors in hospital emergency rooms, helps answer questions about forensic exams and provides moral support. (Her attacker was sentenced to life plus 40 years.)
She flew to New York in February 2004 to meet with Charles Gibson, who interviewed her at the Waldorf-Astoria for ABC's newsmagazine program ''Primetime.'' There, she met Eric, an ABC news producer who was in charge of the interview site. He was also assigned to fly to Texas to shoot video of Bridget in her home and classroom, and to interview others.
After one long day of shooting, the two of them went to Wendy's to buy food for the crew. In the car, they learned they had a natural connection with easy conversation, and though there were no romantic sparks, Eric later said there were ''buddy sparks.''
The program was shown in March 2004. Afterward Bridget and Eric kept in touch through sporadic e-mails. A year and a half later, she left her teaching job in Texas and moved to New York, where she eventually received a master's degree in literacy education at New York University.
Bridget and Eric met for lunch over the next two years, but their meetings were months apart and just as friends. At the time he had recently ended a long-term relationship, and she had previously ended an off-and-on one. In October 2006, after one lively conversation, Eric said he hoped that not so much time would pass before their next get-together.
Bridget replied, ''How about next week?''
A few days later Eric invited her to a concert at Radio City Music Hall and they saw each other every couple of weeks after that.
When out with him one night, she had variously mentioned her tiny ice-cube tray, her broken umbrella and her problem opening a jar of marinara sauce. The next night he had a gift box delivered containing two ice-cube trays, an umbrella, a jar opener and other references to their date. She laughed out loud.
They were still buddies, but the relationship was blossoming.
''We were spending a lot of time together,'' said Bridget, now a reading specialist at a public elementary school in Brooklyn. ''But I was frustrated because I couldn't read him and couldn't tell if he was interested.''
Eric was interested romantically, but concerned.
''I didn't want to be inappropriate or violate our trust after all she had gone through,'' he said. ''I didn't know if she was ready for a romantic relationship.''
After surviving her attack, Bridget received helpful psychological therapy and says she never thought she couldn't have a relationship with a man. She doesn't watch violent shows or movies, and she is always aware of her surroundings, but doesn't experience flashbacks or nightmares about her ordeal.
''I don't try to avoid my emotions,'' she said. ''I had a lot of fear, anxiety and sadness. I try to accept the feelings and move through them.''
The couple got to know each other better. And in February 2007, after a party in a Chelsea bar for one of Bridget's friends, she leaned over and kissed Eric ''like you kiss a boyfriend.''
When Barb, Bridget's mother, and I met Eric's parents at a dinner at Olives in Union Square, we hit it off. His mother, Karen Strauss, is a harpist, and his father, Dr. Elton Strauss, is chief of orthopedic trauma and adult reconstruction at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. A new family was beginning to take shape.
The couple said they spent a lot of time discussing their differences, religious (Eric is Jewish, Bridget is Roman Catholic) and otherwise, including their personalities. ''He's more effusive and outgoing,'' she said. ''I'm more of a listener.''
Over the years, Eric has often accompanied Bridget to Mass (''Well, Jesus was a Jew,'' her always supportive mother told Bridget early on). And, Bridget has regularly joined him and his family on High Holy Days and at other observances. (Neither is planning to convert.)
The romance wasn't without a bump. They broke up in the summer of 2007; Bridget said they needed to work on their communication and on how to disagree.
''I'm definitely more aggressive and louder,'' Eric said. ''Bridget has taught me to think before I act, and be more compassionate.''
They reconciled three weeks later, and Bridget appreciated how Eric fought to win her back. ''It made me feel like he would commit to get through hard times together,'' she said.
Eric said that during the split, he realized, ''I wanted to be with her forever.''
Two months after Bridget's 2002 attack, her pancreas stopped producing insulin and her blood-sugar readings went very high. At 25, through no fault of her own, she had Type 1 diabetes, formerly called juvenile diabetes. It was another life-changing event. Like the three million or so other Americans with the disease, she must prick her finger several times a day and regulate her food intake and insulin injections. It is an imposing and constant balancing act for her.
Soon into their relationship, I realized Eric had learned more about her disease than I had. This was surely a good man.
In 2009 they moved into a Union Square apartment together, with Grace, Bridget's Labrador retriever.
Eric's father recalled one cold winter night when his son, who is allergic to dogs, called to say he was out walking with Grace.
''I knew then that he was really in love,'' he said.
One morning last August, Eric called me in Omaha to tell me his plan; he proposed to Bridget that night.
Relatives and friends from across the country attended the wedding on July 7 in the Great Room of the W New York Union Square hotel. The Rev. Joe Costantino, a Roman Catholic priest, officiated with Cantor Janine Schwarz taking part in the ceremony.
The groom noted during the exchange of vows that he had met his future bride ''during some unusual circumstances.''
As they faced each other he said to her: ''You revealed yourself to be a beautiful warrior the second I met you. With your regal elegance, insightfulness and compassion, you inspire me to be better.''
Bridget told Eric, ''I knew from our first times spent together that you were smart and funny and caring.''
''You listen,'' she added. ''You accept me for who I am and make me feel safe and happy -- because I have someone great to share good times, to survive hard times and to keep me company all the time.''
The wedding reception became joyfully raucous, with the chicken dance and the hora. Eric's father grabbed me during the playing of ''Hava Nagila'' and we jumped crazily around the floor. I was glad to know that if I threw out a hip or broke a leg, an accomplished bone doctor was right there.
I looked at the room in awe, thinking that no one could have predicted this.
Bridget, wearing a Ramona Ponce gown specially designed with an insulin pump pocket, smiled during the reception as her young nieces and nephews danced about her.
Ten years ago, bleeding and alone in the field where she had been left to die at 24, my daughter got up and stumbled to a house in the dead of night. She said later that she felt as if she had been ''lifted up by God.'' I asked somewhat bitterly where God had been 10 minutes earlier.
In the greatest testament of faith I have ever heard, she calmly replied, ''He was there holding my hand.''
Now Eric has taken her hand in marriage, a union that is surely blessed by God.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MANHATTAN, JULY 7: The bride and groom with her father, Michael Kelly. Below, the bride and her father
 the groom and his mother. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); ARMIES (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (86%); SEX OFFENSES (86%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (86%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); MILITARY BASES (70%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); ARMED FORCES (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: OMAHA WORLD-HERALD CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: ST LOUIS UNIVERSITY (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



823 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: A House Divided

BYLINE: By MICHAEL CROWLEY. 
Michael Crowley is a senior correspondent and deputy Washington bureau chief for Time magazine.

 BODY:
DO NOT ASK WHAT GOOD WE DO
Inside the U.S. House of Representatives
By Robert Draper
327 pp. Free Press. $28.
IT'S EVEN WORSE THAN IT LOOKS
How the American Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of Extremism
By Thomas E. Mann and Norman J. Ornstein.
226 pp. Basic Books. $26.
Last summer, as a vote neared on the incendiary question of whether to raise the national debt limit, Jo Ann Emerson, a moderate Republican representative from Missouri, argued with a freshman House colleague about the potential consequences of a failure to act. A Republican vote against extending the nation's borrowing authority would risk a financial-market meltdown, she insisted; her colleague replied that the risks were justified. ''We've spent way too much money,'' he told her. Arriving home that night, Emerson asked her husband to pour her a big glass of wine, declaring: ''I cannot believe that I had this conversation with somebody who was elected to Congress.'' 
Emerson's amazement vividly illustrates how radical the freshman class of 2010 seemed, even to many members of their own party. Those freshmen, many elected under the Tea Party banner, came to Washington with little interest in the advice of experts or the way things had been done before. They were there to shock the system.
The debt vote showdown is the focal point of ''Do Not Ask What Good We Do,'' Robert Draper's engaging and often funny chronicle of the year in the House of Representatives following the Tea-Party-powered 2010 elections. A skilled magazine writer and a biographer of George W. Bush, Draper reports mainly from the perspective of freshmen like the unnamed representative who left Emerson agog. He draws colorful portraits of members like Jeff Duncan, an evangelical Christian from rural South Carolina who said he sensed ''the presence of evil'' during a trip to Guantanamo Bay in a way that had last struck him after he had blundered into a black-magic shop. And there's Blake Farenthold, a conservative talk radio host from Corpus Christi who ran for Congress hardly expecting to win; when he prevailed after a recount, he was plagued by anxiety dreams. (Draper also sketches a few Democrats, including the notorious Anthony Weiner, cast as an obnoxious showboat and abusive boss whose sexual humiliation is little mourned by his colleagues.)
The ferocious Republican opposition to Obama's agenda, Draper says, inflicted real damage to his presidency. At the same time, Draper shows the startling speed with which these conservative revolutionaries grew frustrated and disillusioned. Almost immediately upon arrival, they learned that their own party's leaders thought the huge budget cuts on which they campaigned were unrealistic. At one point the House majority whip, Kevin McCarthy, explained to them that politics is like baseball. You can't always swing for the fences, he said. ''Sometimes you bunt.'' But the freshmen considered themselves sluggers. They pressed the Speaker of the House John Boehner to leverage the debt vote into a demand for spending cuts on a scale that Obama and the Democrats considered unthinkable.
The debt limit crisis was ultimately resolved in a way that satisfied no one. Boehner and Obama briefly tried to negotiate a ''grand bargain'' to address long-term debt reduction. But Boehner's House caucus adamantly opposed any deal that would raise taxes, and the president refused to accept a deal that only cut spending. So the hard questions got punted to a deficit supercommittee that failed to reach an agreement, and the whole drama, sorry to say, is soon to be replayed.
Some of Draper's freshmen are startled to discover their impotence. Farenthold lamented that he felt like Fred Flintstone, trying to slow down a speeding car by sticking out his heel. Impatient Tea Party activists, despite their reverence for the Constitution, don't always grasp that Congress is divided into two equal chambers, one of which remains in Democratic hands.
Freshman year may have left the Republican class of 2010 feeling stymied. But Thomas E. Mann and Norman J. Ornstein contend that they've already changed Washington -- disastrously so. ''It's Even Worse Than It Looks'' argues that the debt limit fight revealed a crisis-level dysfunction in our political culture that has left Washington paralyzed and unable to address America's urgent problems.
Mind you, Mann and Ornstein are hardly partisan polemicists. They have studied the federal government for decades from perches at starchy Washington research organizations (the Brookings Institution and the American Enterprise Institute, respectively) and are considered straight shooters. So their key argument is striking: the Republican Party is mainly to blame for what's wrong with Washington. It has lurched several degrees right of the political center, they say, while Democrats hew closer to the mainstream.
One result, Mann and Ornstein explain, is that Republicans are more likely to reject consensus economic and scientific opinion on issues from fiscal policy to climate change, especially if it clashes with their ideological or partisan goals. In the case of the debt fight, they write, Republicans put ''political expedience above the national interest,'' encouraging a subsequent downgrade in America's credit rating.
Mann and Ornstein do allow that some big systemic problems have bipartisan fingerprints, including the abuse of Senate filibusters and anonymous ''holds'' on nominations and legislation to thwart majority rule. But these problems would be less severe, they write, if Republicans weren't so unabashedly ruthless about leveraging every tool for partisan gain, even if that means leaving crucial federal jobs unfilled or picking fights rather than making legislative compromises.
Mann and Ornstein offer an imaginative list of possible reforms, including making voting easier to reduce the disproportionate influence of hyper/motivated partisans. They even float the idea of mandatory voting, or possible financial incentives, like an interesting (if far-fetched) ''lottery ticket'' scheme. They support incentives for candidates to raise small-dollar campaign contributions as a way to limit the corrupting influence of big money.
More than anything, they want the news media to referee our politics more aggressively, blowing a louder whistle on Republican actions like abuse of the Senate filibuster that depart from recent political norms. ''Both sides in politics are no more necessarily equally responsible than a hit-and-run driver and a victim,'' they argue. Yet it's not clear that journalists can solve the problems they describe, especially as increasing numbers of voters consume partisan ''news'' that affirms their pre-existing beliefs.
Nor is it clear that more nuanced reporting would restrain the powerful passions that have been ignited by America's long-running economic trauma. Washington's failings, and now an extended recession, have led voters to send radical outsiders charging at a broken system. Those outsiders, in turn, have further paralyzed the system with extreme demands. It's entirely possible that voters will grow even more alienated, perpetuating the cycle. Things may not only be worse than they look; the worst may be yet to come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Freshman class: Representative Tim Griffin, right, Republican of Arkansas, on his way to a news conference on the budget last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM LO SCALZO/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (89%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); WRITERS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); RELIGION (62%); BASEBALL (60%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); HOBBY TOY & GAME STORES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (84%)

PERSON: JO ANN EMERSON (79%); BLAKE FARENTHOLD (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%); TIM GRIFFIN (58%); JEFF DUNCAN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSOURI, USA (79%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (52%)

TITLE: Do Not Ask What Good We Do: Inside the U.S. House of Representatives (Book); It's Even Worse Than It Looks: How the American Constitutional System Collided With the New Politics of Extremism (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



824 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: The One Page Magazine

BYLINE: By DAVE ITZKOFF, BESS LEVIN, ERIC SPITZNAGEL, JOHN HODGMAN, SAMANTHA HENIG, JESSICA GROSS, MIREILLE SILCOFF, MAUD NEWTON, MARIO BATALI, CURTIS SITTENFELD, MARNIE HANEL, ELIOT GLAZER, LIZZIE SKURNICK and VICTOR CRUZ

 BODY:
THE BIG PROFILE: JEFFREY DONOVAN
By Dave Itzkoff
After six seasons of shooting the USA series ''Burn Notice'' in Miami, Jeffrey Donovan figured out why sleepier Miami Beach proper never evolved into flashy South Beach. ''I don't think people are going to advertise 'Come to our sleepy beachside town, where you can walk around and no one bothers you,' '' he says. ''It's not catchy.'' On those occasions when he dresses in pastels, however, Donovan says it's not necessarily to show solidarity with his TV home; it's ''just so I don't look like a bum.''
THE MEH LIST 
By Samantha Henig
''Good Afternoon America''
Watermelon for dessert
Hilaria Baldwin
Neon socks
''A Higgs boson walks into a bar. . . .''
Tim Pawlenty
Tea
Additional reporting and user experience by Libby Gery
CUBA LIBRO
By Maud Newton
Navarro Discount Pharmacy, founded in Havana in 1940 and re-established in Miami, has branched out into publishing. ''Bay of Pigs'' recalls the military fiasco 50 years later. Now some of the same locals have revealed their participation in a more successful operation involving a shootout with Che Guevara in the Congo. Exilio chronicles, Volume 2?
THE ISLE OF THIS MAN
By Bess Levin
What else does a mogul need beyond his health, a 453-foot yacht and a 2.3-acre man-made lake? Larry Ellison, the Oracle founder, recently spent a rumored $500 million to buy Lanai, the Hawaiian Island. Now what? Mark Bratton, a vice president at the real estate firm Colliers International, guesses Ellison will ''extend the airport's runway for private jets.'' It ''would make a huge difference'' in attracting wealthy visitors.
GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT
By Mireille Silcoff
The U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization is now planning a world congress on eating insects. Global meat consumption per person in the developing world has doubled over the last 20 years -- it's an unsustainable rate unless bugs are brought into the equation. ''It's only in the West that it's still taboo,'' says Aran Dasan, a co-founder of Ento, a British start-up that plans to harvest grasshoppers and waxworms. ''Which is odd, because we do eat shrimp, which are very comparable.''
WHAT I'M DRINKING NOW
By Mario Batali
The combination of ginger and tamarind feels therapeutic in a restorative, infomercial kind of way. I make a ''dark and stormy'' by mixing 2 tbsp. tamarind syrup with a jigger of dark rum and some lemon zest. Add ice, fill with ginger beer or ale and feel the vigor surging through your veins!
SIMPLE, ORDINARY & BORING LLP
By Jessica Gross
Good news, Shermans: according to a new study, people with easier-to-pronounce surnames occupy higher positions in law firms, particularly 4 to 15 years out of law school, when the likelihood of making partner is most variable. The chances ''rise more slowly for people with disfluent names,'' says Adam Alter, a co-author. Wait, Alter? ''It's pretty fluent,'' he says.
SUMMER FICTION SERIES: THE WILDERNESS
By Curtis Sittenfeld
It was a Strauss waltz playing -- ''The Blue Danube,'' I think -- when the prince's monocle slid from his Hapsburg nose and fell into my Champagne. He froze, a collective gasp swelled in the ballroom and the cold bubbles dampened my white glove as I dipped a hand into the flute. With a demure smile, I asked, ''Aren't you a bit old to be a prince?''
THAT SHOULD BE A WORD: Inpercept
By Lizzie Skurnick
(INN-PURR-SEPT), V.
1. To deny someone his or her subjective experience. ''Casey began taking off her sweater despite the attempt of her husband, Matt, bundled in a fleece and skullcap, to inpercept her.'' See also: Carbiter (asserts someone cannot be hungry).
ASK JUDGE JOHN HODGMAN
By John Hodgman
SCOTT WRITES: My wife says that it hurts her feelings when I am silent after she sneezes. But we don't acknowledge other bodily functions. Also, I do not believe in a higher power.
Ugh. You atheists are always trying to force your flatulence analogies onto the rest of us. Look, I am sorry that you do not care about your wife's being possessed by demons and/or sneezing out her soul. If you cannot say ''Gesundheit,'' which simply means ''health,'' then try: ''There is no God, darling, but I do not think we will die today.''
Submit questions for adjudication to www.maximumfun.org/jjho
HOW TO MAINTAIN FOCUS
By Victor Cruz
Once you reach a long-term goal, you need to make sure you keep it and set more. When you get into the N.F.L., you want to be a starter, catch every ball, win a Super Bowl. You need to keep the support system around you. As told to Spencer Bailey

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GUSTAVO CABALLERO/GETTY IMAGES
HARRY HOW/GETTY IMAGES
DE AGOSTINI/GETTY IMAGES
LEONARD BURT/CENTRAL PRESS/GETTY IMAGES
ADRIAN SANCHEZ-GONZALEZ/AFP/GETTY IMAGES
BRANTLEY GUTIERREZ
GETTY IMAGES
PIER MARCO TACCA/GETTY IMAGES) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY ALEX ROBBINS
ANDREA WAN
STEVEN BONNER) CHARTS (CHART BY KYLE TEZAK)
 GRAPHICS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (85%); REAL ESTATE (76%); LAKES (72%); AIRPORTS (68%); MEATS (66%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (63%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (61%); HIGGS BOSON (53%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (52%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CUBA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



825 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; CONTINUING ED RETRAINING; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Is It Worth It?

BYLINE: By MARJORIE CONNELLY, MARINA STEFAN and ANDREA KAYDA

 BODY:
IN these times of employment uncertainties, a third of adults in the United States have gone back to school in the last five years for additional training, according to a recent poll by The New York Times. And less than a third of them have found a new job or secured a promotion. Still, most consider the experience a good investment of time and money. 
About 80 percent who have returned for more training are already employed; 10 percent are looking for work. Most of the adults continuing their education are under age 45 (32 percent are 30 to 44 years old; 44 percent under 30). Two-thirds are without a four-year degree.
Ryan Shandy, a 29-year-old from Stanwood, Iowa, already had an associate's degree in computer-aided drafting and works with design engineers. But, he said in a follow-up interview, ''the industry is changing rapidly so I decided to go back and take a couple of classes. I studied an advanced program to get a leg up and be better at what I do.''
Of those supplementing their education, 39 percent took out a student loan. Isra Elkhazin of Alexandria, Va., was one of them; she borrowed $7,000 for a five-month skin-care certificate program. ''I'm not too concerned about the loan I took out to do the course,'' she said. ''But I am still paying off loans from my bachelor's degree and that is a concern.''
Mrs. Elkhazin, now 33, had majored in economics at Strayer University, but she was laid off two years ago and couldn't find work in her field. ''After taking the course,'' she said, ''I got a job right away working at a medical spa doing laser treatments.''
Quashana Hobbs, a 30-year-old from Rockland County, N.Y., was among the 25 percent who reported being worried about debt -- ''drowning,'' in her words.
''Burned out'' after five years in social work, she had pursued a master's in business at Nyack College, which she had also attended as an undergraduate. But her ability to borrow dried up, and she discovered she didn't really like business. ''It was the most expensive mistake I've ever made in my life,'' she said.
She was laid off from her social work job in June. Now she is considering another go: a master's in public relations. ''This,'' she said, ''is my last shot.''
Methodology
The nationwide telephone poll was conducted May 31 to June 3 with 976 adults, of whom 229 said they went to school in the last five years. Margin of sampling error for all adults is plus or minus 3 percentage points; for adults who went back to school plus or minus 6 percentage points. Results exclude responses with no answer.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The New York Times Poll 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); CONTINUING EDUCATION (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); STUDENT LOANS (71%); COSMETIC SURGERY & TREATMENTS (70%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (68%); ENGINEERING SOFTWARE (68%); DRAFTING (68%); MEDICAL LASERS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



826 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: Shooting for the Moon

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

 BODY:
A crowd is gathering around the silver punch bowl.
The heady prices of some recent transactions -- including the $88 million sale of a penthouse at 15 Central Park West, the contract to sell a penthouse at One57 for more than $90 million and the recent $70 million sale of a duplex penthouse above the Ritz-Carlton to the casino magnate Steve Wynn -- are emboldening owners to think this is the moment to see if some sky-high price tags will entice rather than scare off potential buyers. Or as Shaun Osher, the chief executive of CORE, likes to say, ''A lot of high-end buyers and sellers want to get on the gilded bandwagon.''
Because of these intoxicating numbers, brokers say that a new handful of properties in Manhattan are about to come on the market with listing prices of $90 million or more.
They are also partying in Miami, where apartments and single-family homes in and around Miami Beach are being listed and sold for record numbers. 
Is this wishful thinking on the part of property owners, or do they have reasons for their surging confidence to start setting prices that would have been considered outrageous only two years ago?
On paper, a good part of their optimism is based on economic problems elsewhere in the world that have sent buyers -- and there are a lot of billionaires out there ready to wire over the cash -- rushing to high-end real estate in cities like New York and Miami as a financial safe haven from stagnant stock markets, low-return bank accounts and onerous tax regimes.
That helps explain a lot of the frenzy, but precisely how do brokers set these prices, particularly since, at this level, a lot of the usual formulas and back-of-the-envelope calculations don't add up?
As brokers tried to beat into my head this week, the pricing of so-called trophy properties is an art, not a science.
''What makes a trophy property is the fact that it really is an intangible, priceless object, like a piece of art,'' Mr. Osher said. ''This part of the market is not a rational decision, it is an emotional one.''
Those intangibles include a subjective measurement of factors like building quality, views, ceiling heights, finishes, light, air and layout. Square footage and outdoor space are factored in, as are the history and ''pedigree'' of the building, brokers say.
Cathy Franklin, a broker at Brown Harris Stevens, says she typically brings in four to six of her peers to help her price a property. ''You always have to look at views,'' she said. ''You could see double or triple the price with an apartment with views versus one that doesn't have views.''
Brokers try to rein in owners' often lofty expectations. But they acknowledge that they haven't cornered the market on wisdom, either. Howard Lorber, the chairman of Prudential Douglas Elliman, recalled a situation a few years ago in which he helped someone sell a house in the Hamptons. He told the seller it was worth $27 million or $28 million. The seller wanted $35 million. They agreed to list it at $33 million. ''The first offer was $31 or $32 million,'' Mr. Lorber said. ''When I called the owner with the offer, they hung up on me.''
Jonathan J. Miller, the president of Miller Samuel, a real estate appraiser, doesn't think the soaring asking prices are based on much more than a high-end herd mentality. ''If they got it, I am going to get it,'' the thinking goes, according to him. ''It is all ego management.''
Within the appraisal industry there is a term for listings based on loose associations to reality, he said: ''P.F.A.,'' or ''Pulled From Air.'' As Mr. Miller explains it, ''Take the highest sale you can find and apply some methodology in a very subjective way to talk yourself up to this bigger number.''
Of course, most people need appraisals to get mortgages, but not the rich. They pay cash.
With few comparable sales to go by, many would-be owners in New York are thinking P.F.A. They continue to see the sale of Sanford I. Weill's one-of-a-kind penthouse at 15 Central Park West to Ekaterina Rybolovleva as a new benchmark at more than $13,000 a square foot. ''They are citing it constantly,'' Mr. Osher said. No subsequent sale has yet reached much more than $10,000 a square foot, but brokers and appraisers say they believe the benchmark has allowed prices to soar higher.
Some in the industry don't see the seeming obsession with the $88 million sale as a bad thing. ''It lifts the whole high end,'' Mr. Lorber said. Mr. Osher, on the other hand, believes it is having a ''negative ripple effect,'' because ''not all apartments in that building are created equal.''
Leroy Schecter, the steel magnate, was set to test that theory last week. He was planning to list his 15 Central Park West home -- two apartments that take up the entire 35th floor of the building's south tower -- for $95 million, which would have been the highest-priced listing in the building. Last year he tried to sell the uncombined residences together for $55 million.
Alex Rodriguez of the New York Yankees previously rented one of the apartments from the 85-year-old Mr. Schecter, who has pledged to give 90 percent of his wealth to charity.
Mr. Schecter was in the process of combining and renovating the apartments but decided to halt the process and put the property on the market uncompleted. The idea was for Mr. Schecter to pay to finish the apartment to the buyer's specifications, said Beth McBride, a spokeswoman for CORE. ''It will be interesting to find a buyer at this price point that has an imagination and is willing to buy off of floor plans,'' she said last week.
This week Mr. Schecter decided not to list the residence -- for now. A Schecter Foundation spokeswoman did not return a call seeking further explanation.
Still, buzz and bravado can go a long way. Nick and Christian Candy, the brothers behind the One Hyde Park development in London, caught the attention of the world when they set several high-water marks in that city, topping off above $:7,000 a square foot ($10,900 a square foot). They built a development tailor-made for the tastes and whims of jet-setting billionaires, said Peter Bevan, head of the Mayfair office of U.K. Sotheby's International Realty, persuading buyers with ''rarity, quality of finish, facilities, services'' and a ''take it or leave it'' attitude.
Brokers in New York have been looking at One Hyde Park as an example of how one development can set new records. ''Here everybody is speaking about that project,'' Ms. Franklin said.
But as more people throng around the punch bowl, their success may depend in part on how many of their trophy properties are on the market.
Mr. Osher said he believed there were still 15 to 20 such properties in Manhattan that haven't traded hands recently, with new ones, like the $50 million penthouse at Walker Tower in Chelsea, starting to become available. Ms. Franklin thinks there could be as many as 30 properties if owners of rare Fifth Avenue and Park Avenue penthouse co-ops decided to sell.
Will international buyers whom brokers in Manhattan and Miami so covet these days get turned off by the aggressive pricing?
If there is something brokers agree on, as Mr. Osher said, it is that ''there are more billionaires in the world than trophy properties.''
But Mr. Lorber says they aren't fools, either.
''The dream of every person that has something to sell is coming up with some international person that is going to pay substantially higher than what the market really is,'' he said. ''I always tell them that if those people did that, they wouldn't be rich, and they wouldn't be able to afford to buy an apartment.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 15 Central Park West (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(RE1)
HOW HIGH CAN THEY GO? One Hyde Park, above, set sales records for condos in London. An apartment sold for $70 million at 50 Central Park South, far left, in Manhattan. And in Chelsea, a penthouse apartment at Walker Tower, left, will be listed for $50 million. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL HARDING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(RE4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); EXECUTIVES (55%); TAXES & TAXATION (51%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (50%)

PERSON: STEPHEN A WYNN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



827 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2368 words

HEADLINE: River of Hope In the Bronx

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN

 BODY:
PERHAPS the most unsung patch of heaven in New York City is a tiny sliver of riverfront parkland tucked between a metal-recycling yard and a giant wholesale produce market, on the far side of a six-lane highway and a pair of active freight train tracks. Hunts Point Riverside Park, a 1.4-acre speck in the South Bronx, opened a few years ago on what had been a filthy, weedy street end.
A garden path now winds from the front gate past rose bushes and flowering butterfly bushes, beyond a sprinkling fountain and shaded benches under a flowered trellis, to a pier on the Bronx River. Save for a couple of brick apartment towers rising over the treetops, the view is green across the river. Herons and egrets silently roam the riverbank. The other afternoon teenagers from Rocking the Boat, a neighborhood organization that teaches boatbuilding, sailing and environmental restoration, were lugging rowboats to the muddy shore and launching themselves into the river. Jason Feldman, in tie and shirt sleeves, having trekked from his office at a heat exchange plant up the block, was on his way out of the park, after eating lunch at one of the wooden picnic tables.
''I come here all the time,'' he said. ''It's incredible, no?'' 
Yes, it is.
For years one of the most blighted, abused waterways in the country, the southern end of the Bronx River has been slowly coming back and with it the shoreline that meanders through the South Bronx. Next year, barring further delays, what looks to be an innovative work of green architecture, by the Brooklyn firm Kiss & Cathcart, is slated to open in Starlight Park, a green stretch upriver from Hunts Point Riverside. This summer at the mouth of the river another street-end pocket park, Hunts Point Landing, is opening between a Sanitation Department depot and a food processing plant.
The New York waterfront is changing perhaps more than any other part of the city. For centuries the interests of big money and industry shaped it. These days, notwithstanding dogged efforts by the Economic Development Corporation to kindle business along the waterfronts of Sunset Park in Brooklyn and on Staten Island, the city's old industrial waterfront is in many places giving way to parks and luxury apartment towers where money still talks, like along the Hudson.
But compared with headline-making projects in Manhattan and Brooklyn, the unexpected renaissance under way along the south end of the Bronx River flies largely below the radar. Park by park a patchwork of green spaces has been taking shape, the consequence of decades of grinding, grass-roots, community-driven efforts. For the environmentalists, educators, politicians, architects and landscape designers involved, the idea has not just been to revitalize a befouled waterway and create new public spaces. It has been to invest Bronx residents, for generations alienated from the water, in the beauty and upkeep of their local river.
The transformation has involved an alphabet soup of public entities and local organizations like Rocking the Boat, Sustainable South Bronx, Youth Ministries for Peace and Justice, Partnership for Parks and the Bronx River Alliance. The Bloomberg administration has made the project a special priority. The South Bronx illustrates how government, although it can be obstructionist and infuriating, is also indispensable to urban improvement. Different federal administrations have mandated cooperation by often competing agencies. Dozens of community groups have subordinated their own pet interests to cleaning the river and creating parks.
The results aren't complete or perfect, far from it. The new parks are still piecemeal and disconnected, plagued by good intentions, half-measures and bureaucratic foul-ups. Boat launches don't work; green spaces aren't always kept clean; sites are created without adequate programming. Progress is painfully slow.
Still, what's happened, under the circumstances, is hardly short of miraculous.
The long-term goal? The recovery of a great waterway and its neighborhoods. More specifically, a greenbelt along the Bronx River as it winds south from the Bronx Zoo, under the bright blue Westchester Avenue bridge, beneath the clamorous Bruckner Expressway, past scrap-metal yards and recycling plants, warehouses and sewage overflow drains.
Industry isn't going away, and it can't if New York's economy is to thrive. But the city needs industry to coexist with a healthy citizenry, and the South Bronx, with a population as large as Boston's, belongs to the poorest congressional district in the nation, suffering from high asthma and obesity rates and a lack of recreation space.
Hunts Point, where the river widens and spills into the confluence of the Long Island Sound and the East River, remains a gritty industrial peninsula, home to several thousand people, and to the vast wholesale food market. A prison barge hugs the shore. From Barretto Point Park, one of the most ambitious of the recent parks -- with the famous floating pool designed by the architect Jonathan Kirschenfeld as well as a beach and playgrounds on a former brownfield beside a sewage treatment plant -- there's a sweeping panorama of the Rikers Island prison complex.
And yet.
The clash of industry and nature is also one of those peculiarly urban, weirdly beautiful, hypnotic vistas, and it makes the passage upriver more magical, as the factories and concertina wire give way to weedy bluffs.
Centuries ago the Mohicans called the river ''Aquehung,'' the River of High Bluffs, a refuge that lured poets from Manhattan. Then the snuff factories and paper mills arrived, followed by the New York Central Railroad. By the turn of the last century the Bronx River had already become an open sewer, prompting renewal efforts that galvanized around a parkway to cordon off the northern end of the watershed between Westchester and the Bronx Zoo.
I hopped a No. 5 train recently with Morgan Powell, a local historian and landscape designer, to check out a little of that northern stretch of the river in the Bronx, and we visited Rosewood Playground, a W.P.A. site refurbished about a decade ago and also the attractive new entrance to Shoelace Park, designed by Donna Walcavage, with its redbud trees, switch grasses and other native plantings. From a dock nearby, the water ran clear over a pebble bed, barely deep enough to float a paper boat.
The river's southern end had to wait until the 1970s, when the Bronx was burning, before anybody started talking seriously about ecological restoration and green space. A local police commander, Anthony Bouza, joined forces with a secretary at Fordham University, Ruth Anderberg, to make restoration a cause. The commander lived in Westchester and was struck while commuting each day by how the river was ''a bucolic, sylvan, beautiful place'' up north, he once recalled, but ''in the South Bronx it was a yellow sewer'' and ''a symptom of America's attitudes toward the underclass, a powerful, physical metaphor.'' Anderberg agreed, quit her job and started the Bronx River Restoration Project.
By 1980 the project had published the area's first greenway plan, which in many respects mapped what, all these years later, is slowly coming to pass. By the late '80s proposals circulated for bike paths. Jose E. Serrano, a state assemblyman who became the district's congressman in 1990, took up the recuperation of the river as a crusade. So did the city parks commissioner Henry J. Stern, and his successor, Adrian Benepe. The Bronx River Restoration Project gave way to the Bronx River Working Group, which became the Bronx River Alliance.
The ecological movement, urban restoration in Europe and a new generation of bike-riding urbanists moved the issue into the mainstream. As Dart Westphal, former chairman of the Bronx River Alliance, put it the other day: ''Over time all the talk about bikes and parks and improving the urban environment gradually became more than talk. It became cool.''
Mr. Benepe estimated when we toured the area recently that some $100 million of the roughly $700 million spent on Bronx parks by the city under the Bloomberg administration had gone to the river and new riverside parks, although the city comptroller's office is investigating whether Bronx parks also received the $200 million promised years ago by the city's Environmental Protection Department in return for a much-criticized, mind-bogglingly-costly water filtration plant being built in Van Cortlandt Park. Meanwhile money has come in from Yonkers, White Plains, Scarsdale and Greenburgh in legal settlements for polluting the river, and state money has poured into projects like Starlight Park.
All that said, the pint-size Hunts Point Riverside Park cost just $3.3 million; Barretto Point Park, with its floating pool, its pier and beach, fields and playgrounds, cost $7 million; Concrete Plant Park, where I saw lovers necking and old men fishing in the river, cost $11.4 million, most of which went to removing 32,000 tons of contaminated soil.
Big improvements don't all carry scary price tags.
Concrete Plant Park, designed by Jim Mituzas, a veteran landscape architect with the Parks Department, occupies a narrow 1,900-foot length of riverfront hemmed in by the Bruckner Boulevard, Westchester Avenue and a fence separating the park from Amtrak rails: the Acela thunders by every hour or so. From the din of 12-lane traffic the entrance to the park off the Bruckner opens suddenly onto a hillside of native plantings capering down to the river. Mr. Mituzas salvaged remnants of the defunct concrete plant to make the ruin a kind of sculptural centerpiece. The park opened in 2009. The budget was tight, and the place lacks enough trees for shade and to block off the train tracks, but it's a respite for residents, picnickers and fishermen, a link in the emerging chain of green spaces between Hunts Point Riverside and the prospective Starlight Park.
Starlight, which still needs to overcome frustrating delays in negotiations between Amtrak and the state Transportation Department over constructing a pedestrian bridge near the tracks, promises to be much used, with soccer and softball fields, playgrounds and a new headquarters for the Bronx River Alliance in the Kiss & Cathcart building. The site was one of the most contaminated in New York, because of a former coal gasification plant. Con Ed paid for cleanup, and the big pity is that the city last month declined to tear down the Sheridan Expressway, which severs the park from its neighborhood.
But the 7,000-square-foot, one-story Bronx River House that Gregory Kiss of Kiss & Cathcart has envisioned to anchor a corner of the park looks auspicious. The building is a simple rectangular masonry block, the architecture coming from the slanting metal mesh fences enclosing the structure and curved along the front to form an entry plaza, linked to a future footbridge over the river. Planted with hardy vines that change colors with the season, the fences will act like a curtain wall, slightly separated from and cladding the building, creating a narrow gap where a microclimate of ferns, mosses and collected rainwater can evolve.
The idea is that the River House should create its own climate zone, have its own smell, be its own natural habitat. Solar panels will generate most of the energy for the building. '' 'Green' and 'sustainable' are words that have lost their meaning these days,'' Mr. Kiss told me the other day. ''This project is meant to be what people mean when they say 'utopian.' '' We'll see. In any event Bronx River House introduces a level of architectural ambition that's new to this end of the South Bronx.
I boarded a boat with Adam Green, the founder of Rocking the Boat, headquartered just next to Hunts Point Riverside Park. We motored to Starlight Park, where the river becomes almost wild. Weeping willows hung over the water. Fish darted under the water. An old tire swing dangled from the limb of a tree. Intrepid teenagers clearly used the river here, and anglers fished all along it even when the river was a toxic garbage dump.
Likewise, for years before it became a park Barretto Point was called La Playita by the men who cast nets for crabs from its shore and by local residents who flocked to the tropical trios that were part of the raucous party scene that overtook the surrounding streets each summer. The new parks and waterfront in the South Bronx, in other words, have not so much been imposed on its neighborhoods as they have given architectural permanence and dignity to what the residents already tried to cook up for themselves.
The latest park, Hunts Point Landing, is yet another spot where fishermen for ages cast lines. It used to be the dead end of Farragut Street. The city demapped the street. Signe Nielsen, a landscape architect, designed the site, which occupies barely 100 feet of waterfront. She installed wetlands, bio-filtration pools and reef balls at the water's edge for oysters and mussels to spawn, and a new pier.
It's another of the eye-popping changes: a tiny green oasis next to a salt shed in the shadow of the crumbling ruins of a former waste transfer station. How many people will trek to Hunts Point Landing, considering the lack of public transit and programming, remains to be seen. What's certain, though, is that it's another piece of the puzzle. Future administrations will need to follow through on the South Bronx Greenway plans, continuing the network of green streets like Hunts Point and Lafayette Avenues that Ms. Nielsen has devised -- linking up with Randalls Island and eking out parkland where the food market now hogs the shoreline -- if the puzzle is ever to be completed.
It was symbolic last month that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg chose Soundview Park, across from Hunts Point Landing at the mouth of the Bronx River, to celebrate Mr. Benepe, who's leaving as commissioner to join the Trust for Public Land. City officials used the occasion to break ground on more than $15 million in improvements to that park.
What's emerging in the Bronx is past and future. A new, more equitable vision for the city in the 21st century. And a river returned, at least partly, to its former glory.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Past and present: Top, the 1.4-acre Hunts Point Riverside Park, which opened a few years ago in an area, above, that was long a dumping ground. The turnaround is part of a long effort by New York City and environmental groups to reclaim the banks of the Bronx River, some of which flows through the poorest congressional district in the nation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR1)
Top from left, Hunts Point Landing, Hunts Point Riverside Park and another view of Hunts Point Landing. Clockwise from above the map, Concrete Plant Park, on the west bank of the Bronx River
Barretto Point Park, on the East River
a group from Rock the Boat departing from Hunts Point Riverside Park
and Hunts Point Landing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR18)
Top right, swimmers at the floating pool at Barretto Point Park, in the East River
and, above, swimmers enjoying opening day at the pool last month. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BRAD VEST/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR19) MAPS(AR18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); RIVERS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); GREEN BUILDING (78%); LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); BOAT BUILDING (77%); MARINE VESSELS (74%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (72%); TRAINS (72%); LAND RECLAMATION (68%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



828 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Texas ; THE TEXAS TRIBUNE INSIDE THE NUMBERS; Pg. 21A

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: State's Dropout Rate Shows Positive Signs

BYLINE: By MORGAN SMITH. 
msmith@texastribune.org

 BODY:
When it comes to the number of students who graduate from its public high schools, Texas is not accustomed to being called a success.
The last time the Texas Supreme Court ruled on the state's school finance system, in 2005, it warned of a ''severe dropout problem,'' calling the lagging graduation rates of blacks and Hispanics in the state ''especially troublesome.''
Yet even as the latest round of school finance litigation goes to trial this fall, it appears there is reason for optimism about the number of students leaving high school with a diploma. Many Texas school districts, including the state's two largest, are reporting their third or fourth straight year of rising graduation rates -- and the statewide average has climbed steadily since 2007, according to data kept by the Texas Education Agency.
One example: Dallas Independent School District, the state's second largest, has seen its graduation rates increase 14 percentage points during that time, according to the latest numbers released by district officials. 
Policy makers and school leaders attribute the rise to a variety of programs on the state and district level aimed at keeping students in the classroom. But beyond the anecdotal, very little evidence exists as to why or if these programs are the reason for the state's success.
''Dropout prevention studies are hard, expensive and rare,'' said Lori Taylor, an education professor at Texas A&M University. ''And just because there is no proof doesn't mean school districts are wrong in believing their intervention is working. But it also doesn't mean that we should instantly go out and advise everyone to do what they just did.'' (Texas A&M University is a corporate sponsor of The Texas Tribune.)
Part of the issue, Ms. Taylor said, is that it is tough to find a control group. When schools decide to carry out a program, they either do it across the whole student body or focus on a certain population. If it is the latter, they are naturally reluctant to deny access to students who could benefit from their services.
It is also difficult to measure the sway of external factors, like the poor economy, which tends to keep students in school because they feel the pull of the job market less, and informed, motivated parents, who are more likely to encourage their children to enroll in voluntary dropout prevention programs.
Shifting state accountability requirements also affect graduation rates, as evidenced by the state's transition to a more rigorous standardized testing regimen in 2003. The next year, graduation rates began a three-year decline as schools adjusted to the new system.
The difficulty of measuring the success of dropout prevention programs is not unique to Texas. ''It's hard to put a stamp on any particular explanation'' of rising graduation rates, said Christopher Swanson, the vice president of Editorial Projects in Education, a research organization that has studied graduation rates nationwide.
With dozens of policies in place at the same time at the state and district levels, broader economic and social trends, and the quality of application all factoring into a program's success, he said, it is a challenge for researchers to untangle the causes and effects of individual practices.
Accurate graduation rates can also be elusive. A high dropout rate holds political ramifications for everyone involved in tracking student achievement -- from principals and school leaders to lawmakers and the governor -- and the intricacy of calculations and definitional loopholes can invite number fudging. In Texas, the battle over graduation-rate calculus reached its height in 2006, after research from Harvard University, the University of Texas at Austin and Rice University showed that the state was inflating its graduation numbers by excluding students who left school for several reasons, including plans to take the G.E.D.
Since then, the state has used the federal definition from the National Center for Education Statistics to measure dropout rates, but that has not prevented critics from saying school districts are trying to mask the true numbers.
According to 2010 statistics from the state's education agency, which still tend toward a brighter outlook than national measures, about 34,907 students dropped out of school. That will most likely translate to a lifetime of decreased economic opportunity, not to mention the $9.6 billion a 2009 Texas A&M study estimated that one year's class of dropouts costs the state over their lifetimes in lost wages, less sales tax revenue and welfare taxes, even with the money saved in the short term when they leave the school system.
The statewide gains in graduation rates play out across all ethnic groups; Hispanic and black populations each beat the statewide average increase by about 2 percent. Statewide increases also occur in formulas used to track graduation nationally. In 2009, the latest year graduation statistics are available in the federal data used by the Cumulative Promotion Index -- which put the state's graduation rate at 72 percent instead of the T.E.A.'s 80 percent that year -- Texas still lags behind the national average by about 2 percent. But its rate has increased more rapidly than average, up by 11 points since 1999 compared with 7 points nationally.
The improvement, though less rosy than the state data, also turns up in numbers collected by the nonprofit Intercultural Development Research Association, which has tracked high school attrition rates in the state using the same methodology since 1986. The attrition rate tracks how many students left school each year, which proponents say is a more accurate measure of schools' success at graduating students than the dropout rate. The state's attrition rate has dropped steadily since 2000 but is still around 27 percent, which the association says means that one in four Texas students fails to graduate from high school.
As districts release their 2011 rates, the positive trend appears to be continuing. Austin Independent School District, the state's fifth largest, reports that its numbers have risen by 6 percentage points since 2008. And Houston I.S.D. and Dallas I.S.D., which have the highest enrollments in the state, say they have improved their rates by 12 points and 14 points, respectively, since 2007.
Meria Carstarphen, the Austin I.S.D. superintendent, said she could not name one program as the ''silver bullet'' for tackling the dropout problem. Over the past several years, she said, the district has instituted a variety of programs aimed at various populations at risk for leaving school, offering classes at alternative hours and helping students catch up on credits. It has also worked within its more traditional student support system, training counselors to identify potential dropouts sooner.
But the improvements in those districts are occurring as the state is once again making a transition to a new accountability system -- and cutting $5.4 billion in financing for state schools. The state is also in the midst of a huge demographic shift, with an increasing population of low-income and minority students.
The demographic shift has played out on a small scale in Duncanville I.S.D., a district of about 13,000 students on the outskirts of Dallas -- and one that has not seen the same success with dropout problems as others in the state. There, in the last eight years, the number of economically disadvantaged students has jumped to 75 percent from 49 percent. Its Hispanic population has risen to 48 percent from 17 percent. Its graduation rates have not risen at the same pace as the statewide figures. Bucking the statewide trend, they declined from 2006 to 2009.
This comes as the district has instituted dropout prevention programs aimed at Hispanic males, which its data have shown to be more likely to leave school, and at credit recovery for students who have fallen behind. It has also seen anecdotal success with policies focused on making school a more pleasant place to be for students, like a peer mediation program, which Tammy Kuykendall, a district spokeswoman, credited with improving attendance rates.
But like others across the state, the district is aware of the looming transition to the new accountability system, which links graduation requirements to state standardized exams.
''That's very massive, and we are not sure how we are going to effectively track, manage and guide students appropriately,'' she said. ''Our high school serves 3,700 to 3,800 students. Just making sure we are reaching and meeting all of their needs is going to be a challenge.''
Inside the Numbers: This article is part of an occasional series that uses data to investigate the trends inside Texas' classrooms.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gabriel Rangel, top left, a math teacher, with summer students at Anderson High in Austin, a district whose numbers have risen since 2008. Above and left, Townview Center in Dallas, where graduation rates rose by 14 percentage points since 2007. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STUART PALLEY FOR THE TEXAS TRIBUNE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECONDARY SCHOOLS (92%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (90%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); GRADUATION RATES (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); LITIGATION (90%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (77%); STATISTICS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (66%); SPONSORSHIP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF TEXAS (84%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (73%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



829 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1491 words

HEADLINE: Dissent as Art Project, And Film Subject

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
IN the summer of 2006, having just graduated from Brown University with a degree in history and a yearning for travel, Alison Klayman headed to China. She arrived there speaking no Chinese, with only one contact and a vague notion of learning a new language and perhaps finding a job as a journalist.
On Friday the result of Ms. Klayman's adventure, an award-winning documentary film called ''Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry,'' opens in New York. In a classic case of being in the right place at the right time, Ms. Klayman happened upon one of the most compelling stories to come out of China in recent years: the transformation of the avant-garde artist Ai Weiwei into one of the country's best-known and most outspoken political dissidents.
''I lucked out,'' Ms. Klayman, now 27 and fluent in Mandarin, said in an interview late last month. ''I don't know where I thought the movie would go when I was starting out, certainly not to the Sundance festival or a theatrical release. I just wanted to try to think something new about China, to do something really good and show who this guy is.'' 
Capturing the enigmatic Mr. Ai, who calls his studio Fake Design, would be a challenge even in normal circumstances. A conceptual and installation artist, photographer, designer and filmmaker whom the magazine ArtReview last year placed atop its Power 100 list, Mr. Ai has a restless imagination and an ability, evident in the film, to confound critics and friends alike.
But around the time Ms. Klayman began filming, Mr. Ai, 55, upped the ante by publicly criticizing the Chinese Communist Party's monopoly on power as well as its handling of the 2008 Olympic Games and a devastating earthquake in Sichuan a few months earlier. Last year, as she was editing ''Never Sorry,'' he was arrested at Beijing Airport, held incommunicado for 81 days and then placed under house arrest for a year and charged with ''economic crimes'' -- all developments Ms. Klayman had to scramble to take into account. In addition two Beijing art shippers who handle some of Mr. Ai's work were detained this spring on suspicion of having committed economic crimes and are still being held.
''One of the hard parts of making a film like this is that you don't know how the story ends,'' said Evan Osnos, the Beijing correspondent for The New Yorker, who met Ms. Klayman just before she started the project. ''If you're making a film about Muhammad Ali and George Foreman, you do know, and you structure the story accordingly. But if you're making a film in real time about a guy who is going down an uncharted path, all you can do is hang on for dear life and see where it goes. To Alison's credit she stayed with it, because she saw a story of real importance.''
Ms. Klayman said that among her objectives was to use Mr. Ai's situation to show that not only are there ''people interested in pushing the boundaries in China,'' but also that ''there are cracks for those people to maneuver in.'' Citing his use of Twitter, blogs and other forms of social media to get his political message and artworks out, she added, ''I do see China as a society with room for a lot of interesting things to be happening, despite the tough nature of authority.''
But she also captures the Chinese state at its most arbitrary and despotic, disregarding the rule of law and international human rights conventions to which it is a signatory. Officials in Shanghai, for example, invite Mr. Ai to build a studio there, then bulldoze it when he falls into disfavor: he responds with a party at the demolition site, serving river crab, whose name is a Mandarin homonym for the ''harmony'' the government tries to enforce.
In perhaps the most extraordinary footage in the film, which Mr. Ai himself supplied, police in Sichuan invade his hotel room in the middle of the night and beat him so severely that he has to undergo surgery in Germany for a cranial hemorrhage. When he complains, they mock him, saying he must have hit himself; and when he tries to file a complaint at a police station there, an episode Ms. Klayman shot until forced to leave, his quixotic effort is thwarted by a Kafkaesque bureaucracy.
Such up-close glimpses suggest what happens, when no one is looking, to other dissidents, like the jailed political philosopher and literary critic Liu Xiaobo, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010, or the lawyer Chen Guangcheng, held under house arrest until he fled to the American Embassy and became the center of a diplomatic crisis between the United States and China this spring. This month the Chinese government's claims that one such dissident, Li Wangyang, committed suicide while under police surveillance in a hospital were met with widespread skepticism and demonstrations in Hong Kong.
''I didn't set out with any intention of how I wanted to portray the state,'' Ms. Klayman said. ''But I do think they wrote their part into the film themselves.''
Throughout ''Never Sorry'' Mr. Ai seems deliberately to blur the lines among his creative work, political efforts and private life. Ms. Klayman shows a project in which the artist, his middle finger extended, is photographed at Tiananmen Square, where in 1989 the People's Liberation Army slaughtered hundreds of students and others seeking political reform.
Even a dinner at an outdoor restaurant in Chengdu, Sichuan, under the watchful eye of police, seems to be staged as an art project. As the film notes, Mr. Ai's artistic influences include Joseph Beuys and Marcel Duchamp, who specialized in just that sort of thing.
''If you ask Ai Weiwei, everything he does is a performance piece, so what you see in the movie is also performance art,'' said Zhang Hongtu, a Chinese artist in New York who befriended Mr. Ai during the decade or so he lived in the United States and who appears in the film. ''He does everything in a calculated way, with a strategy, and 'Never Sorry' captures that.''
But even though Mr. Ai's provocative works and his conflicts with the Communist Party have made him a familiar figure to art world connoisseurs and those who follow events in China, his background and motivation have remained obscure. Ms. Klayman's film helps to fill in those blanks.
Thus ''Never Sorry'' contains tender scenes of Mr. Ai and his mother, and also shows his devotion to his father, the poet Ai Qing. A major figure in 20th-century Chinese literature, Ai Qing was jailed first by the anti-Communist Kuomintang and then by Mao Zedong in the anti-rightist campaign in 1957, the year Ai Weiwei was born, and was sent off to Xinjiang, in China's remote far west.
''For his first 17 years what did he see?'' Ms. Klayman wondered. ''He saw his father, an internationally known cultural figure who had hung out with Neruda and studied in Paris, cleaning toilets and being shunned as an enemy of the people. It must have been very strange, though it wasn't always clear that this is a defining thing about him. Sometimes he didn't want to talk about it, and sometimes he very much embraced it. So I don't have a clear-cut answer for that.''
As Ms. Klayman herself is quick to admit, her own road to making ''Never Sorry'' was rather circuitous. Initially she took jobs at a members-only wine bar, as a personal assistant to the Chinese actress Liu Yifei and at the Beijing Olympics' English-language Web site. But then her roommate, who worked at a Beijing gallery, asked Ms. Klayman, who had just bought a camera, if she was interested in making a video to accompany an exhibition of Mr. Ai's photographs.
''It was sort of like 'Well, you're young and eager and underemployed, would you like to give it a try?' '' Ms. Klayman explained. ''I was so game for it, I signed an agreement with the gallery. It was 'We won't pay you for this, but you can keep your footage,' and I figured I'd hang out with this artist for a month.''
But after the exhibition opened, in 2009, Ms. Klayman, intrigued by her subject and with few other commitments, kept shooting and shooting. As 2009 turned into 2010, she kept at it, with Mr. Ai's encouragement and occasional needling.
Made essentially on spec, ''Never Sorry'' faced one final challenge once Ms. Klayman returned to the United States: finding distribution. When the producer Adam Schlesinger, whose credits include the documentary ''God Grew Tired of Us,'' saw the film, he was smitten, and shepherded it to the Sundance Film Festival, where in January it won a special jury prize. ''Considering that it was her first film, and that the story subject was a moving target, it was really impressive,'' Mr. Schlesinger said, ''and at the same time inspiring and accessible.''
Mr. Osnos added, ''Other films have been made about Ai Weiwei, but the difference is that Alison was on the ground living here and made a commitment to follow him at the sidewalk level.'' He continued, ''I'm guessing that this project took over her life a bit, and that made sense to him, because his project has taken over his life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Chinese artist Ai Weiwei -- at the computer, top, and in his studio -- is the subject of ''Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry,'' a documentary from Alison Klayman, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUNDANCE SELECTS
ED JONES/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR10)
 Ai Weiwei in Alison Klayman's film ''Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry.'' Ms. Klayman said that in China ''there are cracks'' for dissidents ''to maneuver in.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUNDANCE SELECTS)(AR19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HISTORY (78%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); WRITERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); MOVIE FILMING (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (73%); LANGUAGE ACQUISITION (72%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (68%); ARRESTS (66%); OLYMPICS (62%); HOUSE ARREST (61%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (50%); EARTHQUAKES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BROWN UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: MUHAMMAD ALI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); SICHUAN, CHINA (58%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: Ai Weiwei: Never Sorry (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



830 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 2083 words

HEADLINE: Pledge Prep

BYLINE: By ABIGAIL SULLIVAN MOORE. 
Abigail Sullivan Moore is co-author of ''The iConnected Parent: Staying Close to Your Kids in College (and Beyond) While Letting Them Grow Up.''

 BODY:
MARGARET KING of Birmingham, Ala., was at a loss about how to help her older daughter prepare to rush at the University of Virginia. In the South, where sororities have long been a momentous rite of passage, the road to sisterhood is long and not so clearly marked.
So Mrs. King, who graduated from Yale in 1984, before it had any sororities, enlisted the aid of Marlea Foster and Pat Grant, local consultants who had coached their own daughters through rush at Furman, the University of Georgia and Auburn University. Naming themselves the Rushbiddies, they opened shop in 2009 after hearing about the rush misfortunes of their daughters' friends. About 50 mothers and their ''chicks,'' as the Biddies affectionately call them, attended one of their two-day workshops in April ($100 a couple), complete with mock rush party, wardrobe hints and paperwork prep.
And there is a mound of it. The smart rushee, the Biddies advise, will have a resume stressing community service, leadership, academics and teamwork, letters of recommendation from alumnae of each chapter, preferably on the campus in question, and reference letters. 
With the help of Ms. Foster and Ms. Grant, who wears a pink feather boa during workshops, Mrs. King asked alumnae of about 10 chapters, several from U.Va., to write her daughter's recommendations. To guide their plaudits, she sent them packets with a professional photograph, transcript and resume. To thank them, she dropped off a bottle of rose in their mailboxes.
The rush proved successful, but, she says, ''I'm just glad I didn't have four daughters.''
For a generation that grew up on tutors, admission counselors and relentless competition, prepping for rush seems only natural. A mini-industry of blogs, Web sites, books and consultants now helps them prepare for sorority recruitment and all its fallout, professionalizing what was once left to older siblings.
Samantha von Sperling is an image consultant in New York, but lately her bread-and-butter Wall Street clients have asked her to help their daughters get ready for rush at schools like Harvard; the University of Wisconsin, Madison; and New York University, which has added three chapters since 2006 and more than doubled the number of sisters, to 570.
''It's the same kind of coaching I do on Wall Street,'' Ms. von Sperling says.
Sororities are emerging in surprising force at campuses not usually associated with the Greek tradition. Students raised on Facebook and fears about post-college careers view sororities as the ultimate social network and an extension of the community service begun in high school. Nationwide, membership is up, growing a bit more than 15 percent from 2008 to 2011, to 285,543 undergraduates, according to the National Panhellenic Conference, which represents 26 old-line sororities.
Twenty-eight percent of female undergraduates at George Washington University last semester were Greek, about double that in 2006; at Lehigh University, in Bethlehem, Pa., the number reached a high of 50 percent; at the University of Rochester, 22 percent; at the University of Pennsylvania, 29 percent.
Though new chapters are being added and membership expanded, competition is palpable for hot sororities. ''The most sought-after organizations aren't able to keep up with the demand,'' says Matt Supple, director of Greek life at the University of Maryland, which recently added a new chapter.
Which sororities get the most first-choice rankings is a closely guarded secret.
''Sorority recruitment is like no other experience that you will ever have for the rest of your life,'' says Sunday Tollefson, author of ''Rush Right: Reveal Your Best You During Sorority Recruitment.'' ''It's like speed dating meets interviewing meets beauty pageant meets upscale academic summer camp, complete with a counselor.''
Rush often begins in August or early fall -- for January rush, substitute Uggs for fashionable flats. At the University of Mississippi, which has nine sororities, all candidates attend a first-round ''philanthropy'' event at each chapter that includes learning about its charitable work. Candidates can visit up to six chapters on the second round, depending on how many invite them to return, and three on the final.
In the early rounds, they have only minutes to make a positive impression. The trick, says Ms. Tollefson, whose Web site, SureSister.com, aims to demystify rush, is to be memorable for 10 minutes after each event. That's when sororities typically decide who will be cut.
Appealing facial expressions, confident body language and good conversational skills are critical. ''Practice, practice, practice in the mirror, saying your name, and see what you look like when you listen,'' advises Denise Pietzsch, an etiquette consultant in Ohio who works discreetly with clients heading to Miami University. ''If you're a great active listener, they will remember you because you let them talk.'' Her typical fee: $125 an hour.
Ms. von Sperling offers a Friday-to-Sunday intensive, for $8,000. One day is devoted to carrying yourself properly and the art of conversation. Treat rush, she says, as you would a job interview. Avoid politics and religion. ''I teach them how to make interesting small talk: what you saw at the cinema, a trip to Europe. I don't know too many 20-year-olds who are having a debate about economics.'' Another day is for getting physically ready -- hair, makeup and wardrobe. Ms. von Sperling organizes ''outfits down to accessories, completely strategized.'' Just in case a client forgets, outfits are photographed and placed in a style file.
When Rachel Lewis was president of Alpha Chi Omega at the University of Kansas, parents asked: ''Should I buy all J. Crew clothing? Do they need designer purses?'' Ms. Lewis, a 2010 graduate, recently wrote ''Recruitment 101: an Insider's Guide to Sorority Recruitment'' and started up Sorority Corner, a membership-based Web site. Her advice: ''Dress like you are meeting your boyfriend's parents. If it's too short or too tight or too out there, it won't impress.''
Sundresses by Lilly Pulitzer, the designer of happily hued clothing, are particulary popular for August rush. Two years ago, the company introduced the ''Sorority Line'' -- totes, scarves, makeup bags and the like -- using chapters' colors and symbols. Sales are strongest in the South: ''OBSESSED! E-mailing this to the entire Gamma Psi chapter at Wofford College!'' gushed one fan on the company Facebook page.
The Rushbiddies host a fashion workshop at Saks Fifth Avenue in Birmingham; they also give individual consultations. In late May, they visited a client's home in an affluent Birmingham cul-de-sac for a final session. They reviewed paperwork, dispensed advice and vetted dresses for August rush at Auburn. ''This I love,'' exclaimed Ms. Grant of a one-shoulder black cocktail dress destined for the last rush event. ''It's not too over the top.'' And shoes? ''Black strappy sandals,'' said Ms. Foster.
During the session, the rushee, Mallie, who did not want her full name published because it might affect her chances, was mostly quiet, worn out by her recent finals. Her mother took notes and asked questions. Later, Mallie talked about rush: ''It's going to be stressful -- not only making a decision for the next four years but for friends you will have for the rest of your life.'' Because the experience can be so emotional, consultants provide ''on-call services.''
Many aspiring sisters spend their summer working out and dieting. ''Rushing shakes your confidence level,'' says Maggie, who also spoke on condition she not be fully identified. She will soon be heading to Washington & Lee, and is trying to lose weight. ''You are being judged on how you look,'' she says. Case in point: A study of Northwestern undergraduates in a normal weight range, published in 2010, showed the thinner women more likely to join a sorority.
As rush grinds on, students often text their moms with frequent, sometimes tearful updates. ''Drama Trauma Drama,'' wrote one weary mother on a Greek chat forum. For some mothers, empathizing with the pain of peer rejection is excruciating.
''I lost six pounds that week,'' recalls Julie Baselice, whose daughter Christina is now a Chi Omega at the University of Texas. ''It was the most stressful experience of my life.'' As for Christina, she is grateful for the counsel of Marjorie Burciaga, an Austin, Tex., consultant, on how to handle herself during recruitment events. ''It's so easy to go in there and start talking, talking, talking,'' she says. ''You need to learn how to have a filter.''
Many students who don't get asked back by their dream sorority during the early rounds walk away from recruitment altogether. Last year at the University of Virginia, 27 percent left during January rush. Students often have their hearts set on a particular house, says Michael J. Citro, the assistant dean of students.
Or a rushee might limit herself to the house her mother belonged to (legacy status is a plus but no guarantee of a bid). Ms. Burciaga encourages her clients to keep an open mind about chapters they visit. ''I talk to them about what seems like a good fit for them,'' she says.
One obvious reason for rejection is inadequate grades. At the national level, sororities set a grade-point average, and individual sororities often raise the bar. Beyond that, candidates can rarely discern why a sorority rejects them.
Madeline D'Arcambal Braun, a Manhattan native entering her junior year at Indiana University Bloomington, says she had ''absolutely no idea'' why she wasn't asked back. She dropped out of rush freshman year after the houses she wanted didn't invite her back. ''It's exactly like a breakup. That's how this feels.''
Indiana is reputed to have one of the toughest rushes. Parents have complained on the Sorority Parents blog, operated by the National Panhellenic Conference, that space is too limited. Last year, a little more than half of the 1,718 women at Indiana who registered for recruitment joined a sorority; about 800 either didn't continue or did not receive a bid. Possible reasons, say university officials: inadequate grades, student dissatisfaction with the chapters that chose them and vice versa, or not enough spaces.
This past year, the nonresidential sorority Theta Phi Alpha was added to expand slots, becoming the 20th chapter at Indiana. Ms. Braun decided to give this one a whirl, and joined sophomore year. ''It's awesome,'' she says. ''I'm always raving about it.'' Another nonresidential chapter, Alpha Sigma Alpha, is coming this fall.
Rush at George Washington University is a different ballgame. No resumes are needed. Nor are alumnae letters of recommendation or references. Requiring them ''is ludicrous,'' says Sara Fischer, who as president of the G.W. Panhellenic Association last year helped bring an 11th sorority to campus. ''G.W. is not this kind of place.''
There aren't a lot of legacies at G.W.; students are not drawn there for its Greek life. ''Most come to school with a bad idea of sororities, like hazing,'' said Marta Cofone, current Panhellenic president, struggling to be heard over the throb of Katy Perry at a meet-the-Greeks event during new-student orientation last month. Last year, a G.W. sorority lost its housing after an alcohol-fueled hazing incident.
''I wasn't even going to join,'' Ms. Cofone said, but the group leader she met at orientation was a ''smart, intelligent and interesting person,'' and Greek.
Several sorority members from New York and New Jersey, clustered at the Sigma Delta Tau table that night, recalled their mothers' collective shock at their decision to go Greek. But, says Ms. Fischer, ''being in a sorority is the best way to network.'' She credits her Greek contacts with helping her secure an apartment, jobs and internships. She and others also attribute the recent growth of their sorority to recruiting a broad swath of women. ''You'll see that same set of Greek letters on someone with a nose piercing,'' Ms. Cofone said, referring to the chapters' names emblazoned on members' T-shirts and caps. ''That's why it's so successful.''
Valerie Berg, vice president of recruitment at G.W., notes that if students are open to any sorority who wants them, nearly all will get a bid. No prepping required.
Still, the elements of competition persist. Anticipating questions about October's rush, Ms. Berg recently updated the sororities' Facebook page. The topic: what to expect and what to wear on each day.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SEEKING SISTERHOOD: Pat Grant, left, and Marlea Foster coach a client on the dos and don'ts of sorority rush. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARY NORTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
GREEK CHIC: Lilly Pulitzer's ''Sorority Line'' swatches. (ED28)
 READY FOR RUSH: Alpha Delta Pi members talk up the Greek life at George Washington University. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); STUDENT FRATERNITIES & SORORITIES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (87%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (68%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (68%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA (84%); GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (59%); ALPHA DELTA PI (59%); AUBURN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF GEORGIA (57%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (73%); MADISON, WI, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALABAMA, USA (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



831 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3849 words

HEADLINE: The New Community College Try

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA. 
Richard Perez-Pena is an education reporter for The Times.

 BODY:
THERE are too many worms. In a mid-Manhattan classroom, 20 applicants write their thoughts about going to community college on paper cutouts and stick them to a poster of a tree -- multicolored, tapered leaves for hopes, square bits of trunk for strengths, squiggly worms for fears. The worms dominate.
For these students, college is not an assumption but an aspiration, a potential salvation from the poverty most grew up in. Several would be the first in their families to attend college -- some are the first to speak English -- so they get no guidance from home about the leap to that alien plane. Most of them are applying to community college because they know, or suspect, that their high school grades and test scores are not good enough to get them into four-year colleges.
All have applied for the first class ever admitted to the City University of New York's new two-year college, set to open next month, and they are gathered at the college on this March night because of a requirement that applies to no other school within CUNY -- indeed, few schools anywhere. The system will not consider their applications until they have attended a lengthy information session, followed by one-on-one interviews with counselors, to be sure they understand just what they would be getting into. 
They learn this night that the New Community College (officials want to give it a catchier name someday, ideally that of a generous benefactor) would be unlike any they have heard of.
What they do not learn is how much will be riding on it. Unknown to them, these students have applied to be test subjects in a multimillion-dollar experiment in how to fix what ails community colleges. CUNY has designed from scratch a new structure and new curriculum that it hopes will greatly improve students' chances of earning an associate degree and transferring to a four-year college. Experts across the country are watching closely, hopeful that the college can serve as a national model.
The experiment raises many questions, of course. The most pressing may be whether its resource-intensive approach can be carried out on a large scale at a reasonable cost. And long before a single class was to be held, faculty members and administrators battled over what was best for students.
The students know none of this. Their eyes widen as two professors walk them through what lies ahead: summer and winter sessions, mandatory full-time enrollment for the first year, mandatory and frequent tutoring and counseling, courses that do not sound like anything they have seen before, and very little choice in classes.
These students do not display the habits or confidence that would have been instilled in a more privileged group. Just one of the 20 scribbles notes during the presentation, and when the floor is opened for questions, there are none. The professors, Nicola Blake and Tracy Daraviras, try hard to be open and engaging, stressing their own modest backgrounds; when they prod the students for reactions, though, they get little in return.
But the students listen. Not one of them talks or texts or gazes out a window.
Giselle Diaz, a soft-spoken high school senior from Brooklyn, read a brief description of the college and was intrigued enough to apply, but the details are all news to her. Destiny Jackson, a senior from the Bronx, liked the idea of going to school in Midtown -- she used to work at the nearby Lord & Taylor -- and of not seeing the same faces she saw throughout high school. Others in the room readily concede that they marked the New Community College on their CUNY applications just to round out the list of six schools they are allowed to name, in order of preference.
''It's a lot to think about,'' Giselle says. ''It's not really what I expected. I guess I didn't know what to expect.''
None of them did. At dozens of these information sessions, the students write on those trees a mix of hardheaded realism, worry and dreams ranging from cautious to wildly optimistic.
Leaves: ''I want to do better than my parents.'' ''To graduate out from college very satisfied and excited for what my degree will be.'' ''My hope and dreams are to one day have my own record label.''
Trunk: ''I like to read.'' ''Outgoing. Hard-working.''
Worms: ''I fear to get stress during my college years.'' ''Workload might be too much.'' ''My fear for college is meeting new people and speaking out loud.'' ''Am I smart enough?''
FOR TOO MANY STUDENTS, community college does not work. Only about one in five students graduates within three years. Most never do, and never transfer to a four-year college. Full-time students, who account for 44 percent of all community college enrollment, fare better: less than one in three finish in three years, according to the federal Department of Education.
Yet the nation's reliance on community colleges has never been greater, as higher education becomes a requisite for more fields of work. President Obama has repeatedly called for investment in community colleges, and partnerships between them and businesses, to train millions of workers in technical fields like health care and advanced manufacturing. This year, he asked Congress for $8 billion for community college job training.
But Jamie P. Merisotis, president and chief executive of the Lumina Foundation, which works on improving higher education, said that in the long run schools cannot count on more government aid. ''What we need are new models that reduce the time to degree and yield better results, which is what CUNY is trying to do,'' he said.
Even as community college plays an ever-bigger part in improving the job skills of mature workers, its role for young students has also changed.
The surging enrollment revealed in federal surveys -- a 47 percent increase from 1990 to 2010 -- means vastly more students arriving with weak academic records and poor study habits, unprepared for college-level work. About 40 percent of community college students take remedial courses, for which they do not earn any credit toward a degree, and studies show that many others need but do not take them.
''These are folks who've been told, 'You're inadequate, you can't make it,' '' said Scott E. Evenbeck, president of the New Community College.
The challenges they face stretch out the time needed to finish school. Most community college students receive state and federal aid, but it is usually time-limited, and they can use up their eligibility before graduating. Many studies show that going to school part time, taking added years to finish and losing aid all make students more likely to drop out.
To make matters worse, too often students receive little guidance about how to navigate the system and how to choose a combination of classes that will move them closer to graduation.
''You look at the transcripts of a lot of community college students, and it looks like they stood with their backs to the course catalog and threw darts at it,'' said Kay McClenney, director of the Community College Leadership Program at the University of Texas, Austin. ''They wander into college, wander around the curriculum, and then they wander out the door.''
GISELLE DIAZ, 17, wants to make films. She has doubts about the New Community College after learning that its narrow range of course offerings will not include any in that field.
For Reel Works, a nonprofit program that helps city teenagers make films, she produced a low-key but emotional 12-minute documentary on her father's struggle with cancer. She has a part-time job with the group, and her prized possession is a camera donated to Reel Works by the actor Steve Buscemi. ''My friends don't even know who he is,'' she says with a laugh.
Her bedroom -- really a walled-off alcove in her parents' room -- is lined with posters from the ''Twilight'' films, a picture of Jesus and her collection of vintage-style sunglasses. Her nook is piled high with books across a striking range, from novels by Jodi Picoult and Nicholas Sparks to nonfiction by Richard Preston and Lance Armstrong.
Her view of her world and her future goes far beyond what her parents imagined at her age, growing up in the Dominican Republic. Her father used to work as a chef in a corporate cafeteria but has been unemployed since illness disabled him three years ago. Her mother is a home attendant for people who cannot care for themselves. They, Giselle and her two older brothers live on one cramped floor of a row house in the Sunset Park section of Brooklyn, a low-income area where Spanish, English and Chinese languages are spoken in almost equal measure. Neither of her parents speaks English well, and they are acutely aware that they have no insights to offer their daughter as she charts a path to college more or less on her own.
''I don't want Giselle to be like me, a home attendant,'' her mother, Maria, says in Spanish. ''I want her to study. I want her to be a professional, something higher than what I could do.''
Giselle would rather go to a four-year college. She thought about trying some State University of New York schools, but she was never eager to leave the city and her family. She got distracted and never finished the applications. She had hoped to get into some of CUNY's senior colleges, but all she got were rejection letters, which has left her surprised -- she says her grades and test scores are pretty good -- and dejected.
''I've been getting kind of depressed, with all my friends getting into schools, and I'm not,'' she says. ''And a lot of them are going away to college. It's kind of sad because I grew up with these guys.''
Carlina Morales and Destiny Jackson, both also 17, each ranked the New Community College as first choice on their CUNY applications, without really knowing what it was.
''I just liked the idea that it is a new school, so I wouldn't be the only one who's kind of like, 'What's going on?' '' says Carlina, who lives in the Greenpoint neighborhood of Brooklyn. But after the information session and the face-to-face meeting with a counselor a few days later, she, too, has second thoughts.
''It was a little bit of a shock for me, because I was looking for something with a little more freedom,'' she says. ''But it might be good for me to have something more structured, so I really get my associate's and don't just waste my time.''
All three girls say they intend to hold jobs while going to school full time. Carlina worries about balancing work with school, but the other two say blithely that they did that in high school and see no reason for college to be different. All have avoided serious boyfriends, having seen other girls let relationships -- and, in some cases, pregnancy -- distract them from school.
''I didn't have any time for college because I had my children early,'' says Destiny's mother, Debra Roper, a security officer. As for offering any advice on choosing a college or a major, ''I let her handle all of that.''
She and Destiny live in a high-rise housing project, which Destiny has decorated with pictures of Michael Jackson and Marilyn Monroe. Destiny has not given much thought to a career, though she has gotten to know the speech therapist at her high school and thinks that line of work might appeal to her. She recently read the novel ''13 Reasons Why,'' by Jay Asher, about a teenager who commits suicide, and it reinforced her interest in helping people.
Destiny sees herself going on for a bachelor's degree after two years at a community college. ''It's cheaper to go to a community college, so I don't want to make that big decision about choosing a college and then find out I'm not in the right place for me,'' she says. CUNY community colleges will cost $3,900 in the fall, compared with $5,130 for senior colleges.
THE NEW COLLEGE represents not just a tweaking of the experience but an attempt to redesign it from top to bottom. The calendar, the required hours, the interaction with staff members, the content and structure of classes -- all will be different.
The school will not offer any remedial courses, only classes that earn credits, to keep students on track to graduate. Instead, remedial work will be built into every course, along with more advanced studies.
The classes will emphasize collaborative and interdisciplinary work. There are none called ''History'' or ''English.'' One course, ''City Seminar,'' will use urban studies to explore government, culture, history and health. Another, ''Ethnographies of Work,'' will study sociology and business through the lens of various careers, and put students in touch with potential future employers.
Before students can start any classes, they must attend a bridge program spread over three weeks in August. The idea behind it is to get students into the rhythm of school, to give them a taste of the course material, and to help them brush up on math they haven't used for years. But it is also about giving them a head start in learning to be college students.
Too many students ''don't have the attitude necessary or the kind of habits needed to do good work,'' said Matthew Goldstein, the CUNY chancellor. ''We need to teach those things.''
All students will take the same classes for the first year, though they will be separated into two levels of math. At other schools, students who need extra help can get it from skills labs, peer study groups, tutors or advisers. Here, none of those resources will be optional. ''This is absolutely crucial because so many students appear at the door of community colleges completely clueless about what is required of them, or available to them,'' said Ms. McClenney of the University of Texas. ''They don't know they need to do work outside of class. They don't take advantage of tutoring and mentoring services. They don't know about peer study groups or interacting with faculty.''
Students will be required to spend 90 minutes a week in ''group work space,'' working with classmates and building on what they learn in class, with help from peer mentors -- more experienced students from other CUNY colleges. Much of that time will be devoted to writing and language skills, a particular weakness at this level. (When a professor in one information session asked for a definition of the word ''urban,'' she had to call on three applicants before getting a correct answer. One thought it meant ''what's going on now.'')
Students will also have mandatory weekly 90-minute group sessions with advisers, called ''student success advocates,'' addressing issues like study habits and stressful situations outside school.
''We've found that students usually try to confront problems alone, and they often make damaging long-term decisions, like dropping out, in response to temporary problems,'' said Donna Linderman, director of a CUNY program that has tested some of the ideas behind the new college. ''It makes an enormous difference to have them sit down regularly with an adviser who says, 'O.K., how many hours are you working? How long is your commute? Let's make this work and keep you in school.' ''
While elements of the New Community College have been tried in other places, experts say that as far as they know, CUNY's effort is the first time they have all been combined in a single college.
''The important thing about the New Community College is not any one thing they're doing, but that they're doing all of them together,'' said Thomas Bailey, director of the Community College Research Center at Teachers College at Columbia University and one of the experts who advised CUNY in developing the college.
''All the research shows that if you do them alone, for a modest amount of time, they have a modest positive effect, but it doesn't last,'' he said. ''This will be a chance to see what happens if you do them together, consistently, over a longer period of time.''
And many will be watching the process. ''They've done a good job of rethinking it from the ground up,'' Mr. Merisotis, of the Lumina Foundation, said. ''People in education are paying attention.''
THERE ARE NO GUARANTEES that the New Community College will succeed. ''We are going to make mistakes and make changes and find room for improvement,'' said Mr. Evenbeck, the dean of University College at Indiana University-Purdue University at Indianapolis before becoming president of the new college. ''If we're doing the same thing five years from now that we're doing this fall,'' he said, ''we will absolutely have missed the boat.''
But CUNY officials point to one particular reason for optimism: the college's intensive, case-management approach to students is based partly on the program Ms. Linderman leads at six other community colleges, Accelerated Study in Associate Programs. ASAP, open only to low-income students, requires frequent workshops, advising and tutoring.
The results have been striking. More than half of ASAP students graduate within three years, compared with less than one-quarter of CUNY students who start out as full-timers but are not in the program. Based on that record, the system plans to expand the program from a little over 1,000 students in the past year to 4,000 by 2014.
But all of that hand-holding is expensive. CUNY spends about $10,000 a year on the average full-time community college student, and about $17,000 a year on an ASAP student.
In its first year, the new school, starting with enrollment of just 300, will cost well over $30,000 per student, but the price will decline as the college settles in. Officials predict that eventually the New Community College will spend only about 30 percent more per student than other community colleges in the system.
The new college is currently quartered in a small, nondescript office building across the street from Bryant Park. CUNY plans to build it a permanent home on the West Side for 3,000 to 4,000 students.
In any case, administrators argue strenuously that annual cost per student is the wrong measure, because it ignores the taxpayer savings in having students spend fewer years in school, and the benefits of having more of them graduate. ''I believe we're going to show that this is not expensive if you look at cost per graduate,'' said John Mogulescu, senior CUNY dean for academic affairs, who led the team that developed the new college.
That is a legitimate argument, said Mr. Bailey of Teachers College, but it also might not be enough in a time of shrinking government aid to colleges. To be adopted on a grand scale, he said, the new model will have to show significant results without significantly increasing the cost of running a college. ''Money is going to continue to be a very big question for this project,'' he said.
Chancellor Goldstein has a powerful ally in Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg. The city covers $6.8 million of the $8.2 million annual cost of ASAP, and it will spend more than $10 million on the new college in the next year. The chancellor said he recognizes that such subsidies will not last forever, and will not be expanded to cover a much more ambitious effort. ''It requires an investment, but it will pay itself off,'' he said.
Mr. Goldstein put the new college on an ambitious timetable, calling for it to open less than three years after he first proposed it. Professors were hired in 2010 and 2011 to design the new curriculum, and they shared a belief that community college needed fixing, and an enthusiasm about what the New Community College could be.
Nicola Blake joined the faculty last fall, leaving her post at City College, as director of a center helping students develop writing skills, where she said students often questioned whether they were intellectually equal to the work. ''I would tell them 'smart' is just time on task, it's repetition and support,'' she said. ''That was really built into the idea of the New Community College from the start, so I got really excited about that.''
But Mr. Evenbeck quickly found himself at odds with faculty members hired before he came aboard. By last fall, three of the original seven had left voluntarily, and one was forced out. Mr. Evenbeck accused professors of insubordination. The faculty union accused him of contract violations and filed grievances.
The most serious issue raised, and still a concern for some professors who have remained with the college, is whether enough time has been built into the schedule for remedial reading and writing. They support the idea of embedding fundamentals into regular classes, but find the curriculum too ambitious.
''When we said it's going to take more than this, it was viewed as, 'You don't support the model, you're not on board, you're not a team player,' '' said Emily Schnee, one of those who resigned.
Some professors also objected to the idea that ''group work space,'' the time partly devoted to tutoring, would not include them. There were also disputes about vacations and workloads. Each side accused the other of deviating from the mission laid out in the original concept paper. Mr. Evenbeck said the professors had gone off on tangents with no one to rein them in.
''When you have a new campus and you're doing things differently, and people have ideas of how they've done it in the past, you're going to meet some resistance,'' he added.
The original faculty members protested that there were no department chairmen to advocate for them -- in fact, there are no departments -- and that the college has no tenured full professors. That means, they argued, that no one has the standing or the job security to stand up to the administration.
Mr. Evenbeck said that with a faculty expected to total just 18 people when the college opens, and a curriculum designed to erase traditional boundaries between disciplines, ''it wouldn't be appropriate to have departments and use up faculty resources on administrative offices.''
Things have calmed down. Several professors insist they have no major complaints. Those who still have concerns about remediation and governance are unwilling to talk on the record, or do battle with administrators.
THE NEW COMMUNITY COLLEGE has open admissions, but it is not for everyone. Of 4,000 applicants, 504 went through the information session and interview, and 339 decided to go.
Destiny, Carlina and Giselle were all accepted, but Carlina decided to go to SUNY Cobleskill, a senior college. Only Destiny, attracted in part by the unconventional features that she hopes will help her finish in two years, is confident in her decision to attend. ''Some of my friends are going to Lehman, some City Tech,'' she says, and many to SUNY campuses upstate. ''I didn't want to go upstate. It costs more to live away from home, and we don't have the money. Plus, it's boring up there.''
Moving away was also not an option, financially, for Giselle. She will go to the New Community College, but not by choice. She has no other acceptances.
She tries to see the bright side: the structure and discipline will benefit her, but she admits to a lingering disappointment about not studying film. ''It still is an issue for me,'' she says. ''Maybe I'll go two years there, but I could try to transfer after one year. This is just the place to start.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM THE GROUND UP: At an information session for the New Community College, opening in August, prospective students were given paper cutouts on which to write their hopes (leaves), strengths (Post-its) and fears (worms). A selection is on these pages. (ED18)
BRIDGING THE GAP: CUNY plans to build a home on the West Side for its new college, now in an office building across from Bryant Park. Prospective students, opposite page, at an information session. (ED20)
 PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MARCUS YAM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ED21) DRAWING (DRAWING NY LISA ADAMS) (ED18-ED19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMUNITY COLLEGES (94%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



832 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: Police at Home of Colorado Suspect Disarm Major Threats

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON and MARC SANTORA; John Eligon reported from Aurora, Colo., and Marc Santora from New York. Reporting was contributed by Dan Frosch, Jack Healy, Erica Goode and Serge Kovaleski from Aurora, Colo.; and Emma G. Fitzsimmons and Jennifer Preston from New York.

 BODY:
AURORA, Colo. -- Law enforcement officials said Saturday that they had successfully disabled the most dangerous explosives and incendiary devices at the apartment of James Holmes, the man accused of killing 12 people at a movie theater here.
But officials cautioned that dangers remained for the specialists who must enter the apartment to collect evidence.
One crucial task, officials said, was to piece together how the suspect was able to accumulate the weapons used in the shooting as well as the materials needed to assemble the complex web of traps and explosive devices in the apartment.
The Aurora police chief, Dan Oates, said at a news conference on Saturday that the goal of the person who booby-trapped the apartment was apparent: to kill whoever entered. And he said that the most likely targets were the police and first responders. 
James F. Yacone, the special agent in charge for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, described the challenges that explosive specialists faced as they tried to disarm the various weapons in the apartment.
The first step, he said, was to figure out how to get a remotely controlled robot through a front door that had been wired with an improvised explosive device.
Once that trigger was disarmed, around 10:3o a.m. local time, and the robot entered the apartment, the next challenge was to render harmless a potent cocktail known as a hypergolic mixer -- essentially fuel and an oxidizer that when mixed have a violent reaction.
At each stage, they used the robot to remove evidence from the apartment so that they could analyze what they were dealing with to better understand the best way to proceed.
''It was an extremely dangerous environment,'' Mr. Yacone said.
After the field tests, the evidence removed is being sent to F.B.I. headquarters in Quantico, Va., for further analysis, Mr. Yacone said. He declined to give specifics as to the components used in either the explosive devices or the incendiary devices.
Multiple containers were rendered safe, Mr. Yacone said. ''It went very, very well,'' he said, but he noted that the threat has not been completely eliminated.
While the devices were sophisticated, Mr. Yacone said, much of the information about how to assemble them could have been found on the Internet.
Chief Oates said that they were getting a better picture of how the gunman had acquired all the deadly equipment, including four weapons bought legally over the last 60 days and more than 6,000 rounds of ammunition purchased legally over the Internet.
For more than four months, Chief Oates said, the suspect had been getting large mail-order deliveries both at his home and at his place of work.
''What we are seeing here is evidence of some calculation and deliberation,'' he said.
In the city of Aurora, initial spasms of shock and anger turned to raw, open sadness on Saturday as the police completed the grim task of informing families whose relatives were among at least a dozen people who died in the shooting early Friday during a midnight screening of ''The Dark Knight Rises.''
Many people took to Facebook and Twitter to express their grief, a sign of the increasing importance of social media during mass tragedies.
More than 50 people were injured, some critically, during the shooting that upended an evening of excitement that brought families and many young people out for the highly anticipated Batman sequel.
The authorities had worked through the night to identify those killed, and by Saturday morning they said they had notified all the families of victims, including some who had been holding out hope that those missing had been spared. There were still 11 people hospitalized in critical condition, the authorities said.
Before the authorities released a list of the dead, many family members came forward on their own to identify the victims.
Among those identified so far were a 6-year-old, two active-duty servicemen, a 23-year-old community college student, a young man celebrating his 27th birthday, and a sports blogger who a month ago had narrowly avoided a shooting spree at a Toronto shopping mall.
Candlelight vigils were held across the city on Friday night and the tragedy prompted a rare bit of bipartisan accord in Washington.
President Obama used his weekly radio address to again speak out on the shootings, saying, ''Such evil is senseless -- beyond reason.''
''If there's anything to take away from this tragedy, it's a reminder that life is fragile,'' Mr. Obama said. ''Our time here is limited, and it is precious. And what matters in the end are not the small and trivial things which often consume our lives. It's how we choose to treat one another, and love one another. It's what we do on a daily basis to give our lives meaning and to give our lives purpose. That's what matters. That's why we're here.''
Speaker John A. Boehner gave the Republican response to the president's radio address, saying that he had planned to speak on the economy, but instead directed his attention to the shootings.
''Words cannot capture the horror, or make sense of something so senseless,'' he said. ''So I won't try.''
Led by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, law enforcement agents began early Saturday securing the area around the apartment.
Residents in five buildings surrounding Mr. Holmes's were evacuated on Friday. Sixteen of the evacuated people were taken to shelter at Central High School, where 12 others joined them late Friday night after an unrelated fire at an Aurora apartment building forced them from their homes.
Throughout the afternoon, the authorities went about the delicate task of clearing dozens of other booby traps and improvised explosives.
With each controlled detonation, a low thud could be heard from across the street, where dozens of television cameras remained pointed up at the third-floor window, its glass smashed out and blinds blowing in the breeze.
There was fear that as they tried to disable the devices in the apartment, it might create a secondary explosion, damaging valuable evidence that might be inside the apartment. But the operation was initially successful, with no major explosions or fires.
By the afternoon, law enforcement officials said that many of the threats had been eliminated.
Officials did not release details about how they rendered the various devices safe, but law enforcement officials said that one method used was known as a ''water shot,'' in which a robot placed a tube of water near a device and, after backing away, set off a detonation.
The shooting stirred memories of the Columbine High School shooting, which took place just 20 miles from here.
''People in Colorado have really been through a lot between the recent wildfires, and now this theater shooting,'' said Patricia D. Billinger, a local spokeswoman for the Red Cross.
At the apartment of the suspect, Mr. Holmes, local law enforcement officers and firefighters were being helped by explosives experts from the Federal Bureau of Investigation as well as those from the A.T.F.
They faced a situation that Chief Oates said was unlike anything he had seen.
On Friday, he described an apartment littered with jars full of an unknown liquid, other jars full of ammunition and yet more filled with what he said looked like mortar rounds. A series of wires ran between the jars, evidently set to blow up should they be disturbed.
When the police arrested Mr. Holmes outside the movie theater where the shooting took place, he warned them that the apartment was rigged with explosives, the police said.
They swarmed his apartment complex around 2 a.m. Friday, evacuating neighbors and sealing off Mr. Holmes's apartment. Residents from four other neighboring buildings were also evacuated.
The authorities said that in the last 60 days, Mr. Holmes had legally purchased four guns at local gun shops -- an AR-15 assault rifle, two Glock .40-caliber handguns and a Remington 12-gauge shotgun -- and acquired through the Internet more than 6,000 rounds of assorted ammunition.
Mr. Holmes is being held at the Arapahoe County Jail and is scheduled to be arraigned Monday morning.
In the immediate aftermath of the shooting, social media was a tool that people used to update others on their situation and talk about the horror they had witnessed.
''So sorry for your loss,'' Debbie Byers Phillips wrote in a post. ''We all grieve with you.''
Less than three hours after the shooting, at 3:13 a.m. Friday, Tony Hoang posted on his Facebook page, ''I almost died.'' Hours later, he added, ''i still cant believe i got out alive.''
Online Correction: July 21, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An earlier version of this article misspelled the location of the F.B.I. headquarters. It is Quantico, Va., not Quanitco. It also misspelled

GRAPHIC: Firefighters gathered Saturday outside the apartment complex in Aurora, Colo., where James Holmes, the suspect, lives. People paid their respects on Saturday, above, at a makeshift memorial across the street from the theater in Aurora. A woman who lives near the suspect's home was evacuated, below left, on Friday. John Larimer, 27, who was in the Navy, was one of the victims. JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (93%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



833 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; STRATEGIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: The Long-Term Argument For Dow 20,000

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
AFTER the last several years, you don't need a finance course to know that stocks are risky.
If you've looked at the fluctuating value of your own stock portfolio, you already have a visceral understanding of market volatility. These violent ups and downs provide powerful reasons for fleeing stocks -- and for buying protection in the form of government bonds, even if their yield is minuscule.
Investors may have absorbed the arguments for avoiding risk so completely that they have lost their taste for it. That's why a new position paper by Seth J. Masters, chief investment officer of Bernstein Global Wealth Management, is startling. Its title is ''The Case for the 20,000 Dow.'' 
On Friday, the Dow closed below 12,900. Mr. Masters says it's time to consider the chances that the Dow will rise by more than 7,000 points -- an increase of more than 50 percent. He says the odds of that happening by the end of this decade are excellent.
For long-term investors right now, he says, stocks are a much better bet than bonds. ''This argument may seem provocative,'' he said in an interview. ''But that's only because market conditions are so unusual, and so many people have become so pessimistic.''
That pessimism is grounded in recent history, he acknowledged. The stock market is extremely volatile now, and stocks are being battered for all kinds of reasons. Take your pick. At the moment, major banks are being investigated for rigging interest rates. In the United States, the economy has hit a soft patch, and in a nasty election season the government is heading toward the so-called fiscal cliff, with spending cuts and tax increases set to take effect automatically at the end of the year.
In much of Europe, the economy has been contracting, and the finances and governance of the euro zone are unstable. On top of all this, in crucial emerging markets like Brazil and China, economic growth is slower than had been expected. And that is just a partial list of the factors weighing on the market. Quite often, stocks have been sinking for no apparent reason at all.
Even so, stocks over the next decade may be less risky, in some respects, than the supposedly safe market for United States Treasuries, Mr. Masters said. His underlying argument is that the world has faced dire conditions before, and markets and economies have bounced back.
''People are acting as though the world is going to end,'' he said. ''It might end, but we think it won't, and we think that's no way to live your life.''
Precisely because bonds are now extraordinarily overvalued and stocks are undervalued, in his view, stocks are extremely likely to outperform bonds over the next decade or two. The Dow Jones industrial average is likely to reach 20,000 during that time -- and probably within the next five to 10 years, he said.
''Our projected stock returns may sound optimistic,'' he writes. ''They're not. They are well below the long-term average for U.S. and global equities and based on conservative assumptions about economic and market conditions. Bonds, on the other hand, are unlikely to outpace inflation, because current yields are extremely low.''
Bernstein projects 8 percent median annual returns for a diversified portfolio of global and domestic stocks over the next 10 years, versus 2 percent for 10-year Treasuries. At that rate for stocks, ''the Dow could hit 20,000 in five to 10 years,'' Mr. Masters continues. ''In the same time frame, the S.& P. 500, a more representative index, could hit 2,000.''
Annual stock market returns of 8 percent were, until recently, commonplace. At the moment, he concedes, they are not. And, in an interview, he said he was not predicting that stocks would actually rise 8 percent next year or in any given year but instead was presenting a ''range of probabilities'' for investment returns. ''We don't know where stocks will go,'' he said. ''And right now they are likely to be extremely volatile, which could feel very unpleasant.''
BUFFERING that volatility makes sense for risk-averse investors, he says. Over the short run, for example, a portfolio that would typically contain 60 percent stocks and 40 percent bonds as a strategic allocation should be ratcheted down to 54 percent stocks and 46 percent bonds. That should reduce portfolio fluctuations. Eventually, though, he says, such a portfolio should return to a more typical stock allocation.
Over 10-year periods since 1900, stocks have outperformed bonds 75 percent of the time, according to Bernstein's calculations. But today, bond prices are relatively high -- their yields, which move in the opposite direction, are extraordinarily low -- and stock prices are relatively low. So the firm sees the chance of stocks beating bonds over the next 10 years at 88 percent.
Stocks have been cruel and it is hard to love them now. Still, Mr. Masters writes, ''We think that 10 years from now, investors will wish they had stayed in stocks -- or added to them.''
Correction: July 29, 2012, Sunday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: The Strategies column last Sunday, about reasons that the Dow Jones industrial average may eventually reach 20,000, misstated the assessment of current stock prices by Bernstein Global Wealth Management. In the firm's view, they are relatively low, not high.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); EURO ZONE (64%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2012



834 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Never Mind the Bubbly, Some Can't Buy Groceries

BYLINE: By GINIA BELLAFANTE

 BODY:
This past week had many New Yorkers indulging an amused horror over a curated set of images on the social-media site Tumblr titled ''Rich Kids of Instagram.'' Photographs, outlined in gilded frames, depict the summer-holiday excesses of young people for whom Y.M.C.A. camp was apparently never on the horizon. Several revelers pay tribute to their imbibing on noncommercial modes of transportation.
To the question ''What did you do on your summer vacation?'' many teenagers will presumably return to school in September answering: ''I helicoptered back and forth between Cap Ferrat and St.-Tropez.'' In one of the original photos, a toddler on a private jet is strapped into a car seat and staring at a computer screen. How uplifting it would be to learn that he was watching ''The Muppets Take Manhattan'' and not Jim Cramer's ''Mad Money.'' 
These images have come along to provide a fitting scrapbook for a season in which the religion of selective reality seems only to be gaining adherents. Consider the fictions that have taken hold in regard to New York City's economy. ''Bloomberg's NYC Jobs Miracle; Exaggeration? Maybe Not,'' read a particularly delusional headline in Crain's New York Business two weeks ago. In early July, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, reiterating one of his administration's memes, pointed to the successes of ''film and television production, tourism, commercial bioscience and the city's rapidly expanding tech sector'' as reasons that New York has recovered from the recession ''far more robustly'' than the rest of the nation.
This, of course, is a highly dubious claim. Despite job growth in certain knowledge-class and service sectors, unemployment has been rising. On Thursday, the State Labor Department reported that the city's unemployment rate climbed to 10 percent in June, exceeding the national figure by close to two percentage points. The unemployment rate in the city is now nearly twice what it was five years ago and has been running higher than the figures for Atlanta, Boston, Houston and Chicago.
While it is indeed a very good time to be moving to New York with a Stanford M.B.A. and a business plan to create the Twitter of 2014 (as suggested by the barely post-adolescent tech entrepreneur Josh Miller when he stood next to the mayor at a press event in May), it is a far less auspicious moment to be someone who already lives here and is looking for cleaning work, say, in the offices of the Twitter of 2012.
Since last month, Agustina Guillot and Lorena Ordonez, middle-aged immigrants living in New York, have been seeking jobs in the aftermath of being let go, with little explanation, by a company contracted by Con Edison to clean its headquarters in Union Square.
It had taken Ms. Guillot five months to find the position last year, she told me, after she and her 23-year-old son were both laid off from factory jobs at an electronics manufacturer in New Jersey. Her son has been unable to find any work for 16 months.
Ms. Ordonez, a single mother who lives in the Bronx and came to the States from Ecuador in 1981, was already working full days as a home health aide in East Harlem when she accepted the 5 p.m. to 1 a.m. cleaning shift at Con Edison, embarking on a schedule and route -- multiple subways and two-hour trips in the middle of the night -- that allowed her no more than three hours of sleep.
Because she is paid so little beyond minimum wage, she requires two full-time jobs to meet expenses that include a rent burden of $1,475 a month, on which she is now 60 days behind. (Someone might alert Anne-Marie Slaughter, the author of a notorious article in The Atlantic on ''equal opportunity for all women,'' that this is how the 80-hour workweek materializes for women who don't ask, ''Can I have it all?'' but rather ''Can I get enough?'')
If worker satisfaction -- the extent to which people feel engaged with what they do, invested in the companies they work for and rewarded and respected for their efforts -- is regarded as an indicator of economic and social well-being, then the city is in far from exemplary shape. Many low-wage workers in the city don't receive paid sick days, and a measure to require employers to provide them is stuck in the City Council.
A report released last week and written in part by UnitedNY, a group that has large-scale protests on behalf of low-wage workers planned for Tuesday, carefully delineates the constraints under which these workers operate and the disparities between what low earners make and the profits their employers reap. In the 1960s and '70s, the report states, the earnings of someone working full time, year round at the minimum wage were enough to lift a family of three above the poverty line. The purchasing power of New York State's minimum wage, which stands at $7.25 an hour, is now dramatically lower than it was 40 years ago. Today, a person earning the minimum and working year round would earn about $16,000, or 82 percent of the poverty threshold for a family of three.
Included in the study is a list of what are labeled the city's worst low-wage employers and industries, those that pay inadequately and fail to offer decent benefits. Among them: airline contractors that provide baggage handlers, cabin cleaners and front-line terminal security at the city's airports. At J.F.K. last week, I met a security worker, Prince Jackson, employed by Air Serv (whose chairman, Frank A. Argenbright Jr., the report handily tells us, owns a $6.8 million compound in Sea Island, Ga.) as he ended a night shift. Part of his job involves the important work of monitoring a passenger-exit area in a Delta terminal, ensuring that no one breaks through into the arrivals area.
For this he is paid $8 an hour. His health plan's co-pay is too high, so he never uses it, he told me. Mr. Jackson, who is galvanizing his co-workers and speaking at Tuesday's event, said that were it not for his church's food pantry, he could not afford groceries. His son is a junior at Clark University, and he would like to be able to send him some money occasionally so the young man could study more and work less. But he can't.
Forget uncorking the Roederer Champagne on the way to the Vineyard.
E-mail: bigcity@nytimes.com

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAID OFF: Agustina Guillot, left, and Lorena Ordonez were let go. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MB1)
 RICH REVELERS: A curated set of images on the social-media site Tumblr depicts youthful excess. (MB4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); STATISTICS (66%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (65%); BUSINESS PLANS (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (65%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (50%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%)

PERSON: JIM CRAMER (52%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



835 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Head for the Cliff

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER. 
Nicholas D. Kristof is off today.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON is so immobilized by partisan rancor that those of us who crave a little common sense find it hard to ward off despair. Whether you blame Republican cynicism, Democratic fecklessness or presidential disengagement, it is now a given that Washington has become a sludge pit of dysfunction.
Exhibit A, of course, is the hapless quest for a grand budget bargain. Talk to any credible economist, wire any serious politician to a polygraph, and you will hear at least 80 percent agreement on what is to be done: investment to goose the lackluster recovery and rebuild our infrastructure, entitlement reforms and spending discipline to lower the debt, and a tax code that lets the government pay its way without stifling business, punishing the middle class or rewarding sleight of hand. The bipartisan Simpson-Bowles commission assembled a grand bargain that does most of this. 
Of course, in this Washington, in this election year, there is no chance of accomplishing anything constructive, right? So crisis be damned, let's scream about Romney's outsourcing and whether Obama hates capitalism.
But President Obama has a bold option at hand, should he choose to use it. And some of his fellow Democrats are starting to warm to the idea. It has been called the nuclear option and likened to falling off a cliff. It is widely regarded as a possible catastrophe. In fact, it may be our best hope.
In January, two fiscal time bombs planted by Congress are due to explode. On Jan. 1, all the Bush tax cuts expire, constituting a $400-billion-plus tax hike in 2013. The next day -- unless Congress agrees on a major deficit-reduction plan -- a fiscal discipline known as sequestration will slash about $100 billion a year from federal spending, divided between defense and nondefense.
Blanket repeal of the tax cuts and across-the-board spending reductions are both pretty bad ideas. Taken together they are a kind of grotesque, automated austerity program. Lawmakers of both parties are desperately seeking ways to evade some of the consequences. Republicans are more focused on sparing the defense budget, and Democrats are pressing to preserve the middle-class tax cuts.
For months now, Erskine Bowles, the former Clinton chief of staff and a co-chairman of the Simpson-Bowles commission, has been quietly proposing that Obama treat the January Armageddon as an opportunity. The president should head straight for the cliff and let Congress know he's prepared to take us over the edge unless they build a bridge.
In other words: President Obama should declare now that unless Congressional leaders come up with a serious bargain on fiscal reform, something very like Simpson-Bowles, he will allow all of the Bush tax breaks to lapse and all of the draconian cuts to take effect.
Assuming no deal is consummated in the poisonous pre-election climate, he should insist on a lame-duck session after Election Day. He should invite Congressional leaders to Camp David, put Simpson-Bowles on the table, and negotiate -- not a lot, since the plan already includes considerable compromise, but enough to show good will. If no deal emerges, all the Democrats have to do is take a page from the Republican playbook: dig in their heels and do nothing.
The best case (Bowles is optimistic, I'm a little less so) is that the lame-duck session passes a bipartisan plan that actually helps the country out of its enduring recession. Worst case, the president and his party seize the moral high ground and shape the economic debate around a plan that would be both wise and popular. When the tax breaks expire and the robo-cuts go into effect, the next Congress and president, whichever party prevails, will be forced to face the subject with real urgency. Lawmakers will be under siege from legions of constituents, and the markets, demanding an end to stalemate.
Moreover, as Jonathan Weisman pointed out in The Times the other day, after Armageddon the issues on the table would no longer be the perilous business of raising taxes and cutting spending, but the opposite: cutting taxes (at least some of them) and restoring spending (at least some of it).
Republicans will howl that this is blackmail, a priceless complaint from the party that periodically threatens to let America default on its debt.
But does Obama have it in him? This is the kind of tactic Lyndon Johnson would have employed with relish. You can imagine Bill Clinton pulling it off. President Obama, whether out of diffidence or inexperience, has not shown a comparable audacity or mastery of political leverage.
Well, here's his chance to show us what we can expect if he's re-elected: fruitful leadership, or another four years of gridlock.

GRAPHIC:  DRAWING (DRAWING BY R. O. BLECHMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); DEFENSE SPENDING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); TAX INCREASES (69%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); ERSKINE BOWLES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



836 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ESSAY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1508 words

HEADLINE: A Nation That's Losing Its Toolbox

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
NEW ROCHELLE, N.Y.
THE scene inside the Home Depot on Weyman Avenue here would give the old-time American craftsman pause.
In Aisle 34 is precut vinyl flooring, the glue already in place. In Aisle 26 are prefab windows. Stacked near the checkout counters, and as colorful as a Fisher-Price toy, is a not-so-serious-looking power tool: a battery-operated saw-and-drill combo. And if you don't want to be your own handyman, head to Aisle 23 or Aisle 35, where a help desk will arrange for an installer.
It's all very handy stuff, I guess, a convenient way to be a do-it-yourselfer without being all that good with tools. But at a time when the American factory seems to be a shrinking presence, and when good manufacturing jobs have vanished, perhaps never to return, there is something deeply troubling about this dilution of American craftsmanship. 
This isn't a lament -- or not merely a lament -- for bygone times. It's a social and cultural issue, as well as an economic one. The Home Depot approach to craftsmanship -- simplify it, dumb it down, hire a contractor -- is one signal that mastering tools and working with one's hands is receding in America as a hobby, as a valued skill, as a cultural influence that shaped thinking and behavior in vast sections of the country.
That should be a matter of concern in a presidential election year. Yet neither Barack Obama nor Mitt Romney promotes himself as tool-savvy presidential timber, in the mold of a Jimmy Carter, a skilled carpenter and cabinet maker.
The Obama administration does worry publicly about manufacturing, a first cousin of craftsmanship. When the Ford Motor Company, for example, recently announced that it was bringing some production home, the White House cheered. ''When you see things like Ford moving new production from Mexico to Detroit, instead of the other way around, you know things are changing,'' says Gene B. Sperling, director of the National Economic Council.
Ask the administration or the Republicans or most academics why America needs more manufacturing, and they respond that manufacturing spawns innovation, brings down the trade deficit, strengthens the dollar, generates jobs, arms the military and kindles a recovery from recession. But rarely, if ever, do they publicly take the argument a step further, asserting that a growing manufacturing sector encourages craftsmanship and that craftsmanship is, if not a birthright, then a vital ingredient of the American self-image as a can-do, inventive, we-can-make-anything people.
That self-image is deteriorating. And the symptoms go far beyond Home Depot. They show up in the wistful popularity of books like ''Shop Class as Soulcraft,'' by Matthew B. Crawford, in TV cooking classes featuring the craftsmanship of celebrity chefs, and in shows like ''This Old House.''
Traditional vocational training in public high schools is gradually declining, stranding thousands of young people who seek training for a craft without going to college. Colleges, for their part, have since 1985 graduated fewer chemical, mechanical, industrial and metallurgical engineers, partly in response to the reduced role of manufacturing, a big employer of them.
The decline started in the 1950s, when manufacturing generated a hefty 28 percent of the national income, or gross domestic product, and employed one-third of the work force. Today, factory output generates just 12 percent of G.D.P. and employs barely 9 percent of the nation's workers.
Mass layoffs and plant closings have drawn plenty of headlines and public debate over the years, and they still occasionally do. But the damage to skill and craftsmanship -- what's needed to build a complex airliner or a tractor, or for a worker to move up from assembler to machinist to supervisor -- went largely unnoticed.
''In an earlier generation, we lost our connection to the land, and now we are losing our connection to the machinery we depend on,'' says Michael Hout, a sociologist at the University of California, Berkeley. ''People who work with their hands,'' he went on, ''are doing things today that we call service jobs, in restaurants and laundries, or in medical technology and the like.''
That's one explanation for the decline in traditional craftsmanship. Lack of interest is another. The big money is in fields like finance. Starting in the 1980s, skill in finance grew in stature, and, as depicted in the news media and the movies, became a more appealing source of income.
By last year, Wall Street traders, bankers and those who deal in real estate generated 21 percent of the national income, double their share in the 1950s. And Warren E. Buffett, the amiable financier, became a homespun folk hero, without the tools and overalls.
''Young people grow up without developing the skills to fix things around the house,'' says Richard T. Curtin, director of the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers. ''They know about computers, of course, but they don't know how to build them.''
Manufacturing's shrinking presence undoubtedly helps explain the decline in craftsmanship, if only because many of the nation's assembly line workers were skilled in craft work, if not on the job then in their spare time. In a late 1990s study of blue-collar employees at a General Motors plant (now closed) in Linden, N.J., the sociologist Ruth Milkman of City University of New York found that many line workers, in their off-hours, did home renovation and other skilled work.
''I have often thought,'' Ms. Milkman says, ''that these extracurricular jobs were an effort on the part of the workers to regain their dignity after suffering the degradation of repetitive assembly line work in the factory.''
Craft work has higher status in nations like Germany, which invests in apprenticeship programs for high school students. ''Corporations in Germany realized that there was an interest to be served economically and patriotically in building up a skilled labor force at home; we never had that ethos,'' says Richard Sennett, a New York University sociologist who has written about the connection of craft and culture.
The damage to American craftsmanship seems to parallel the precipitous slide in manufacturing employment. Though the decline started in the 1970s, it became much steeper beginning in 2000. Since then, some 5.3 million jobs, or one-third of the work force in manufacturing, have been lost. A stated goal of the Obama administration is to restore a big chunk of this employment, along with the multitude of skills that many of the jobs required.
And there is an incipient upturn in the monthly employment data, although the president will almost certainly finish his first term with the manufacturing work force well below the 12.6 million it was when his administration began. (It was nearly 11.9 million last month.)
''We sit in rooms with manufacturers who tell us that location decisions to move overseas that were previously automatic are now a close call, and that the right policies can make a difference,'' Mr. Sperling says.
THAT is particularly the case if federal, state and local governments intervene with generous subsidies, like those seen in China, Germany, Japan, France, India and other countries eager to sustain manufacturing.
Government subsidies are helping to make manufacturing in America more attractive, but the turnaround may be hard to sustain. And it may be too late. Big multinationals already operate factory networks in Europe and Asia, as well as in the United States. Stepping up exports to those markets from the United States, rather than producing in them, is becoming less of an option -- short of an international agreement like the Plaza Accord of 1985, which realigned currencies and gave American manufacturers a temporary boost.
As for craftsmanship itself, the issue is how to preserve it as a valued skill in the general population. Ms. Milkman, the sociologist, argues that American craftsmanship isn't disappearing as quickly as some would argue -- that it has instead shifted to immigrants. ''Pride in craft, it is alive in the immigrant world,'' she says.
Sol Axelrod, 37, the manager of the Home Depot here, fittingly learned to fix his own car as a teenager, even changing the brakes. Now he finds immigrant craftsmen gathered in abundance outside his store in the early morning, waiting for it to open so they can buy supplies for the day's work as contractors. Skilled day laborers, also mostly immigrants, wait quietly in hopes of being hired by the contractors.
Mr. Axelrod also says the recession and persistently high unemployment have forced many people to try to save money by doing more themselves, and Home Depot in response offers classes in fixing faucets and other simple repairs. The teachers are store employees, many of them older and semiretired from a skilled trade, or laid off.
''Our customers may not be building cabinets or outdoor decks; we try to do that for them,'' Mr. Axelrod says, ''but some are trying to build up skill so they can do more for themselves in these hard times.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Displays at Home Depot and other stores offer quick lessons in home projects. But they may also be a sign that mastering tools and working with one's hands are receding as American cultural values.(BU1)
 Don Yadda, at left in above photo, a sales representative for the Home Depot, visited a job site in Larchmont, N.Y., where windows were being installed. In the photo at left, easy-to-use flooring was stocked at a store in New Rochelle. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL FALCO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(BU5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); POWER TOOLS (76%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); RECESSION (73%); FLOORING (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (64%); ELECTIONS (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (50%)

COMPANY: HOME DEPOT INC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (84%)

TICKER: HD (NYSE) (95%); FORDP (PAR) (84%); F (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (95%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); JIMMY CARTER (50%); MITT ROMNEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



837 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 3424 words

HEADLINE: 'I Am an Entrepreneur, Baby. Don't Forget That. I'm an Entrepreneur.'

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

 BODY:
Terry McAuliffe, the former chairman of the Democratic National Committee, is starting a company that makes little electric cars. On a sweltering Friday in early July, GreenTech Automotive unveiled its signature vehicle -- the MyCar -- at a plant opening in the North Mississippi town of Horn Lake. McAuliffe was puttering backstage before the event with his pals Bill Clinton and Haley Barbour, the former governor of Mississippi and archetypal Republican lobbyist.
The holding area was crowded and somewhat frenzied. People designated as V.I.P.'s kept streaming through, many in from China, where GreenTech is building an 18-million-square-foot facility. They arrived, dozens of them, via a Harrah's shuttle bus with a big ''Fun in Store for Those Who Ride'' painted on the side. As Clinton prepared to go onstage, I asked him if he would ever consider buying a car from McAuliffe, who he once marveled could ''talk an owl out of a tree.'' ''Absolutely, I would buy a new car from Terry,'' he told me. ''But a used car? I am not so sure about a used car.'' He laughed and wheeled around and repeated the line to Barbour (''Listen to what I just told him . . . ''), while slapping his fleshy back. 
McAuliffe, 55, is eager to be known, foremost, as a businessman and an entrepreneur, and not so much as a political moneyman. That will take some doing. He is ''the greatest fund-raiser in the history of the universe,'' Al Gore once said, in keeping with the hyperbole often heaped on McAuliffe, known widely as the Macker, by the politicians who love/need him. McAuliffe, who is in fact quite hard to dislike and is himself a peerless exaggerator, has collected legions of friends over the years. ''There are 18,000 names in my Rolodex,'' he boasted to me earlier that morning over coffee. When I pressed him, he revised the number upward, to 18, 632. The acknowledgments section of his memoir, ''What a Party!'' runs six single-spaced pages and includes the names of every member of the Democratic National Committee during his time as the party chairman. In a five-minute span of conversation, McAuliffe distilled for me the extent of his psychological complexity: 1) He pinches himself all the time because he's so lucky. 2) He likes to think out of the box. 3) He swings for the fences every day. 4) At the end of the day, it is what it is.
If McAuliffe's trademark is fund-raising, his principal identity is as a Professional Best Friend to Bill Clinton. The subtitle of ''What a Party!'' might as well be ''Let Me Tell You Another Story About Me and Bill Clinton.'' (One involved South Korean Intelligence agents thinking McAuliffe and Clinton were more than just friends.) If he is not dropping the name of the 42nd president, the Macker is telling you that he just got off the phone with Bill Clinton, or that, what do you know, President Clinton is actually on the phone right now, and can you please excuse him for just a second (''Hello, Mr. President''). And if Mr. President is not on the phone, there is a good chance he is, as today, close by.
Clinton's voice is softer and throatier than you remember. He has lost considerable weight, evident to anyone who has seen him in photographs (once known as the ''Big Dog,'' he's now more ''Vegan Dog''). But it is jarring nonetheless to see the svelte version of the former president up close, especially since his head is as big as it ever was -- a fact accentuated by the ruddy brightness of his face and pronounced cheekbones. Encountering Clinton these days is like meeting a skinny older guy who is wearing a Bill Clinton mask.
McAuliffe's MyCar debut is the culmination of years of planning for a firm that is trying to reinvent the automobile. Unsaid was that he also hoped it would reinvent Terry McAuliffe as he approaches his own probable run for governor of Virginia in 2013 -- something he tried in 2009, losing in the primary to a relative political unknown named Creigh Deeds. GreenTech could be the vehicle, so to speak, for McAuliffe to escape his lane as a political rainmaker, carnival barker and Clinton appendage and reposition himself as ''a Virginia businessman fighting for Democratic causes and creating jobs,'' as his Web site says. It hardly mattered that a lot of these jobs would be in Mississippi, not Virginia, because of a package of tax and infrastructure incentives McAuliffe was able to secure from Barbour, who himself made the successful transition from operative-businessman to public office when he was elected governor of Mississippi in 2003.
GreenTech's story is in part a monument to the power of a politically connected company. The board of its primary investment group is led by Hillary Clinton's brother and includes a former governor of Louisiana and a former I.R.S. commissioner. GreenTech has raised more than $100 million in capital, much of it no doubt deriving from McAuliffe's wide network of political contacts. And as a general rule, former presidents tend not to show up for the openings of plants in Horn Lake, Miss. This is all nothing but good publicity for the company, for Mississippi, for the Macker. It's hard to look around the excitement of this day's festivities in Horn Lake, staged as it is, like a political event, under a massive American flag, and not appreciate the simple wisdom behind the message: ''This idea that if you're in one political party you've got to somehow hate the people on the other side,'' as McAuliffe put it to me. ''It's destructive to our country.''
After our brief conversation backstage, Clinton walked over to Barbour, who was standing about 20 feet away and was seemingly in possession of many of the pounds Clinton had shed. Like McAuliffe, Barbour is a former party chairman -- he was head of the Republican National Committee during the early Clinton years -- who also seems completely unburdened by angst, misgiving or heavy self-analysis. He thought hard about seeking the 2012 Republican nomination for president. In the end he decided not to run, and after his second term as governor, he rejoined the Washington lobbying firm that still bears his name and made him tens of millions of dollars and where he lobbied for tobacco companies.
The columnist Michael Kinsley noted in Politico how so many veteran reporters were longing for Barbour to run for president. Why? Barbour, Kinsley wrote, ''plays on this social insecurity among journalists.'' He ''doesn't literally wink as he spins, but he manages to send the message: This is all a big game -- a big wonderful game -- and you have the privilege of playing it with me.''
Barbour speaks in a slow, mud-mouthed Mississippi drawl. Unlike the set of terrified modern politicians admired for their ''restraint'' and ''caution,'' he will imbibe tumblers of Maker's Mark with reporters after hours and tell salty jokes on the record. Like the one that his former White House boss, Ronald Reagan, told him on Air Force One about the two Episcopal preachers: ''One says to the other: 'You know, times have really changed. I never slept with my wife before we were married, did you?' And the other one said, 'I don't know, what was your wife's maiden name?' '' Shoulder whacks and belly laughs.
The Washington Political Class, as it's called by those in the media who are often a part of it, represents a vast and self-perpetuating network of friendships and expedient associations that transcend even the fiercest ideological differences. Membership in the class is the paramount commonality between the various tribes -- the journalists, the Democrats, the Republicans, the superlawyers, superlobbyists, superstaffers, fund-raisers, David Gergens, Donna Braziles and Karl Roves. They argue on television and often go into business with their on-air combatants. They can be paid tens of thousands of dollars to do their left-right Kabuki thing in front of big organizations. The Macker did this with Rove a while back -- a luncheon speech at the Exxon Mobil headquarters in Texas. He has a few joint events planned with Barbour for the fall. He has also done partisan duets at a combined 50 grand a pop with ''my great friend, Eddie Gillespie,'' a Barbour protege and former R.N.C. chairman whom McAuliffe bonded with in the greenroom between their many on-air donnybrooks over the last decade. ''I have a love-hate relationship with Terry,'' Gillespie joked in one of their public debates. ''I love Terry. And I hate myself for it.''
One quaint maxim of the Political Class is that there is no such thing as Democrats and Republicans in Washington, only the Green Party. Green as in money, not GreenTech, or anything having to do with clean energy. In his speech at the GreenTech opening, McAuliffe said that during the '90s, ''President Clinton created more millionaires and billionaires than any other president in the history of this country.'' At which point, Barbour, who had been chatting onstage with Clinton through much of McAuliffe's remarks, gave the former president a special nudge.
McAuliffe and Barbour became multimillionaires independent of any celebrity imprint. McAuliffe grew up in Syracuse, where he started his first business, McAuliffe Driveway Maintenance, at age 14. After snowblowing work, he ironed and starched out each dollar bill to ensure maximum crispness. He was the chairman of a commercial bank at 30 and made at least an eight-figure fortune as an investor in several companies, including a multimillion-dollar windfall in the late 1990s from a $100,000 investment in the telecommunications firm Global Crossing. (The company later filed for bankruptcy. As the Bush administration was taking heat for the Enron scandal, some Republicans tried to make an issue of McAuliffe's profiting from a doomed company while less well connected investors lost big.)
McAuliffe slightly recoils whenever I suggest that he is a ''Washington insider.'' (He lives in McLean, Va., a full 20 minutes outside D.C.). ''I am an entrepreneur, baby,'' he has said to me several times in recent years. ''Don't forget that, I'm an entrepreneur'' -- albeit one whose wedding party included the former-House-Democratic-leader-turned-superlobbyist Richard Gephardt; who has been a regular at Sam Donaldson's annual holiday party; who runs into his neighbor Dick Cheney at his daughter's (and Cheney's granddaughter's) soccer games; and who initially put up the money for Bill and Hillary Clinton's Chappaqua home.
McAuliffe goes on an annual hunting trip on Maryland's Eastern Shore with a gang that includes the famed Democratic lobbyist Tommy Boggs, the former Senate Republican leader Trent Lott and Lott's Democratic lobbying partner John Breaux, a former Louisiana senator who as a member of the House famously declared that his vote could not be bought but ''could be rented.'' (After a member of the House leadership once called Breaux a ''cheap whore,'' Breaux protested that he was ''not cheap.'')
McAuliffe has arguably seen the inside of more television greenrooms over the last two decades than anyone in Washington. That is where he met Barbour, who in his capacity as R.N.C. chairman used to pulverize Clinton on television while McAuliffe defended him. After a while, through repeated exposures, they became friends. In late 1999, Barbour and Tommy Boggs were planning to open a downtown restaurant called the Caucus Room, which The Washington Post described as a ''red-meat emporium'' that ''will serve up power, influence, loopholes, money and all the other ingredients that make American Democracy great.'' Seeking investors, Barbour called McAuliffe and asked for $100,000, which he sent over immediately. A while later, Barbour called back, said they were oversubscribed and sent McAuliffe back a check for $50,000. ''So I figure I made 50 in the deal,'' said McAuliffe, who never saw a penny more.
It was around this time that Bill Clinton asked the Macker what ambassadorship he wanted for all the work he'd done on his behalf. McAuliffe had just put together a fund-raiser at Washington's MCI Center that sucked in more than $26 million for the D.N.C. (''The biggest event in the history of mankind, as you know''). He told Clinton that he wanted to be the ambassador to the Court of St. James's, or Britain. But McAuliffe figured his appointment was no sure thing, given that it required Senate confirmation and that Republicans, who held a majority at the time, had little incentive to help a president they had just impeached. McAuliffe enlisted his friend Barbour and asked him to lobby his friend and fellow Mississippian, Trent Lott, then the Senate majority leader, on his behalf.
The next day, Barbour called back and said the conversation went well. When I asked him about the transaction, he seemed mildly annoyed at the suggestion that Republicans in the late '90s would punish a buddy of Bill Clinton's, or, alternatively, that McAuliffe would receive any special treatment because he was Haley Barbour's friend. McAuliffe, he said, was qualified and effective and would have represented the nation with distinction. ''It would be awful if just because he was effective for the other side, we punished him,'' Barbour said. ''We need more of those guys, who understand that this is not personal, just because we disagree. This business should not be vengeful.''
But it would be wrong to assume that Barbour and Lott were acting out of pure nonpartisan motives. McAuliffe later learned from Lott, his hunting buddy, that when Barbour called him about the appointment, his first thought was how convenient it would be to get the best political fund-raiser in the Democratic Party out of the country in time for the 2000 elections. ''Tell the son of a bitch I'll walk him to the airplane,'' Lott told Barbour, according to McAuliffe.
As it turned out, the 2000 Democratic convention in Los Angeles was in serious financial trouble, and McAuliffe wound up taking it over at the urging (begging) of the nominee to be, Al Gore. After the election, McAuliffe became chairman of the D.N.C. during George W. Bush's first term. He still saw Barbour a fair amount around town, though Barbour eventually headed back to Mississippi in 2003 to run for governor. He took office in 2004, and a year later saw his governorship consumed by Hurricane Katrina, which killed 238 Mississippians, destroyed 68,000 homes and turned 28,000 square miles, or 60 percent of the state, into a major disaster area. Barbour became a one-man fuse box of political and corporate connectedness. His old friend Sam Adcock, the head lobbyist for the aerospace firm EADS, sent five helicopters and an ambulance plane to Mississippi. Another lobbyist, David O'Brien, donated 100 satellite phones. The C.E.O. of the timber giant Georgia-Pacific (a former lobbying client) offered his firm's services to help salvage storm-damaged timber.
While fully engaged in the grave matters of Mississippi, Barbour retained strong links to the capital. ''Washington has been very nice to me,'' he said. ''I have a lot of Democratic friends. I have a lot of liberal friends. I even have friends in the news media.'' Indeed, on the night before the 2010 White House Correspondents Dinner, Barbour was scheduled to travel to Washington to speak at a book party for the CNBC host Maria Bartiromo -- a k a the ''Money Honey.'' Ed Rogers, a founder of Barbour's old lobbying firm, was the party's host. Prudishly speaking, a journalist's agreeing to be celebrated at a party hosted by a lobbyist and headlined by two newsmakers might be seen as compromising -- especially when one of those newsmakers (Barbour) was thinking seriously at that point about running for president and when the honoree (the Money Honey) wound up moderating a Republican debate the following year.
In the end, Barbour could not make the Bartiromo bash because he had to stay back in Mississippi to tend to the BP oil spill in the Gulf of Mexico, so the Macker took over his speaking duties. He exalted Bartiromo in his remarks as ''the greatest economist, the greatest woman ever to be involved in dictating how world economic policy is done.'' NBC's Andrea Mitchell, who attended with her husband, the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan, went on likewise about her colleague Maria. But first she paid tribute to the fun-loving trilogy of McAuliffe, Barbour and Rogers, singling Barbour out for special citation for his efforts in the gulf. ''Haley Barbour is really a hero to a lot of people,'' declared Mitchell, who has known Barbour since he worked in the Reagan White House, which she covered for NBC.
Soon after, everyone raised a glass -- to the Money Honey, to the Macker, to Barbour, to the whole team.
McAuliffe had thought about starting some kind of clean-energy company as far back as 2006. But he focused instead on writing a book and then, starting in early 2007, on being chairman of Hillary Clinton's 2008 presidential campaign. Then there was the ill-fated run for governor of Virginia in 2009, after which he started GreenTech, purchasing a company from China and moving it back to the United States. He sent a team out to scout for locations in several states, but in the end chose Mississippi because, he said, in addition to the tax incentives and abatements he received, ''I knew I could trust Haley's word, and he knew he could trust mine.'' Barbour emphasized to me that GreenTech received no preferential deal, just a standard off-the-shelf package that the state would offer to an automotive company. ''The fact that Haley Barbour and Terry McAuliffe are friends is lagniappe,'' Barbour said.
Lagniappe?
''It's a French word. It means something extra, like a cherry on top.''
McAuliffe says he hates to sleep, musters about four hours a night and downs about seven or eight cups of coffee a day. He was up at 5 on the morning of the Horn Lake opening. He checked the assembly line, met with his board and made certain all the American flags were in place and the ribs and catfish ready to barbecue. He donned a GreenTech polo shirt and determined that the first car off the line should also be green.
But this ran counter to the original plan, which was to have the first car be one that was specially customized for the local Domino's, which is purchasing a fleet to deliver pizzas into areas whose roads are restricted to low speeds, like the University of Mississippi, in Oxford. The speed limit on campus is 18 M.P.H., in homage to the famed alum quarterback Archie Manning's old number. (MyCars, which cost upward of $15,000, are generally limited to roads with a speed limit of 25 miles an hour and need a battery charge every 100 miles or so.) Still, even with the late-breaking car-color change, the program went off with few glitches. Barbour gave a great and generous speech, and so did President Clinton, and McAuliffe proclaimed his hopes for the future of the country and the green movement.
After the remarks, McAuliffe, Barbour and Clinton descended the stage and squeezed into the maiden MyCars for photos amid a furious blaring of ''Born in the U.S.A.'' After a few minutes, McAuliffe and Clinton walked the assembly line, Bon Jovi's ''Livin' on a Prayer'' now resounding, while Barbour bolted for the air-conditioned area backstage. He seemed less than his usual happy-go-Haley self, but Clinton and McAuliffe rejoined him in a few minutes and Barbour regained his game face. Banter ensued:
''Hey, you notice that Clinton refused to get into the car that Terry was driving?'' Barbour kept saying. Big laughs.
Barbour told McAuliffe the joke about the two Episcopal preachers.*
(*Disclaimer: I prodded him.)
''Reagan supposedly had great jokes,'' McAuliffe said.
''Oh, God, he's great,'' Barbour confirmed.
A few minutes later, Barbour made his exit, and McAuliffe and Clinton stayed behind to pose for an impromptu group photo with assorted staff and stragglers. ''Hey, get in here,'' someone called out to a young African-American aide to McAuliffe. ''We need some diversity in this photo.''
''Yeah, we only got one Jewish guy in this picture,'' Clinton quipped. ''That's not enough.''
On his way out, the Vegan Dog stopped in the hallway and offered a quick assessment of why politics has become so nasty. 1) Our national leaders don't stay in Washington enough and don't get to know one another. 2) They travel constantly, don't sleep enough and are jet-lagged. And 3) For good measure, he's really proud of Terry.
With that, Clinton headed out a back door and into his motorcade while the Macker bounded back down the hallway as if he owned the place.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Terry McAulif e, Bill Clinton and Haley Barbour at the unveiling of GreenTech's new electric car earlier this month. (MM22-MM23)
 Party Heads: McAulif e the Democrat (left) and Barbour the Republican, share a laugh. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA DIMMOCK / VI I , FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); FUNDRAISING (75%); LOBBYING (73%)

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); HALEY BARBOUR (89%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



838 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ED; Column 0; Education Life Supplement; ENTREPRENEURSHIP FELLOWSHIPS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Drop Out, Start Up

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
Taylor Wilson has big dreams: to build nuclear fusion reactors that will solve the world's energy crisis. ''I've got some technology that will really change the world, so college right now is not the best option for me,'' said Mr. Wilson, who is just 18 but built his first working reactor at 14. He plans to start a company, aided by a $100,000 grant as the recipient of a ''20 Under 20'' Thiel Fellowship. Before tackling a new form of energy, he will address slightly more modest tasks: detecting nuclear weapons and diagnosing cancer with his technology.
The two-year fellowship, for applicants under age 20, was started last year by Peter Thiel, the Silicon Valley investor who believes more young people should be chasing breakthrough technologies instead of wasting their time and money in college. Mr. Wilson is in the second group of grant recipients, announced last month. He joins 43 other fellows -- 39 men and 4 women -- working on projects like developing unmanned aerial vehicles and building electric car motors with rare earth magnets. 
By recruiting would-be Mark Zuckerbergs, Mr. Thiel is tapping into the lore of Silicon Valley, where coffee shops are crammed with C.E.O.'s barely out of their teens and being a dropout is a badge of honor -- one held by tech's biggest luminaries, including Steve Jobs and Bill Gates as well as Mr. Zuckerberg.
But the Thiel Fellowship has also fueled a fierce debate about the value of a college education in a changing economy, one where the skills to write software or build a robot, coupled with an outsize dose of ambition and a youthful belief in one's ability to change the world, have the potential to produce fame and fortune in a way that few other professions do.
''You increasingly have people who are graduating from college, not being able to get good jobs, moving back home with their parents,'' Mr. Thiel said. ''I think there's a surprising openness to the idea that something's gone badly wrong and needs to be fixed.''
James O'Neill, a founder of the program, blames the cost of college for what he sees as a lack of innovation in areas like energy, transportation, nanotechnology, space travel and robotics. ''Not only does college track you into a career with a big company,'' he said, ''but for many people, it piles on a huge amount of debt that limits people starting a company or quitting your job to tinker in your garage.''
The fellowship offers little structure. Fellows meet quarterly to discuss their projects and listen to guest speakers, but they work on their own. They are assigned mentors to turn to for what Mr. O'Neill calls ''life-hacking skills,'' like whether it is productive to work every day or to take time off and how much exercise entrepreneurs need. The grant comes with no strings; Mr. Thiel doesn't even get first refusal rights to invest if fellows are raising money to start a company.
James Proud is a Thiel fellow who sold his start-up, a music recommendation Web site called GigLocator, in June. He said he knows he is missing out on the deep computer science knowledge that he could learn in college. ''I would've been the first person in my family to go to university, so it was a pretty big deal not to go,'' he said. ''But I decided that I've learned so much over the past year, building a company, starting stuff and meeting all these people, that I'd be losing out more if I paused.''
Eden Full left Princeton to build a device that rotates solar panels so they absorb maximum sunlight, intended for the developing world. She has pilot projects in Africa, India and Peru. Ms. Full plans to reapply to Princeton when her fellowship ends. ''I didn't find college valuable before,'' she said. ''But I've learned so much about myself and I have this newfound appreciation for what college can do for me.''
But not all Thiel fellows are successful. John Burnham had bold plans to start a company to extract minerals from outer space. He quickly learned that $100,000 was not nearly enough to do that, so he came up with a new idea: creating models to make capital-intensive projects like space exploration economically viable. That idea also floundered, so now Mr. Burnham is figuring out what to do next. ''It's been really eye-opening for me to realize that just because you have a big idea doesn't mean that's all it's going to take to make something happen,'' he said.
For those who drop out -- and fail to get a start-up off the ground -- giving up college can hurt. Unemployment for those with just a high school diploma is 21 percent. And college has countless benefits even for out-of-box thinkers, from networking opportunities to learning practical skills that apply to starting companies.
William Damon, an education professor who directs the Stanford Center on Adolescence, is studying how young people become entrepreneurs. ''A lot of the entrepreneurs are actually doing it based on the education they are getting in colleges or business schools, and the ones who aren't, the famous exceptions, all have very deep and rich networks, often through their family.''
Mr. Wilson understands that. ''College is the safe route,'' he said. ''The fellowship is definitely not the safe route. There's a risk, but the only rewards come with risks.''
Applying for the Uncollege
The Thiel Foundation will start accepting applications again in November for its $100,000 grant. This may be a techie's alternative to college, but the process involves two familiar fears: SATs and essays. (Last year there were two: one on how you plan to change the world, another on what you believe that nobody else does.) Of 1,000 applicants for 2012, about 40 were flown to the Bay Area for follow-up interviews and to pitch to 100 mentors. All finalists got to meet industry insiders, but only 20 made the cut.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE THIEL NETWORK: Taylor Wilson is one of this year's fellowship winners. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE WOLTERBEEK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); GRANTS & GIFTS (76%); SCIENCE FUNDING (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); ROBOTICS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (72%); SPACE EXPLORATION (67%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (66%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (66%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (63%); CANCER (55%); MILITARY WEAPONS (55%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (52%)

PERSON: MARK ZUCKERBERG (74%); STEVEN JOBS (53%); BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



839 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: Looking Beyond Silicon Valley's Bubble

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: Within the bubble of Silicon Valley, everyday conversations can touch on private jets and billion-dollar deals. But if you look past the ostentation, truly magical work is taking place. 

 BODY:
It is still up for debate whether there is a bubble in Silicon Valley.
One thing I know for sure: much of Silicon Valley is enveloped in a bubble.
I moved to the center of the tech industry from New York City last year, and I have never experienced anywhere quite like the Valley.
The money here is obscene. The newly minted rich are obsessed with outperforming their rivals. One industry party I attended had a jungle theme. This included a real, 600-pound tiger in a cage and a monkey that would pose for Instagram photos. A prominent Googler's Christmas party in Palo Alto had mounds of snow in the yard to round out the festive spirit. It was 70 degrees outside. Sean Parker, a founder of Airtime, threw a lavish, $1 million party that included models he hired to roam the room and a performance by Snoop Dogg.
Eat dinner with start-up founders and venture capitalists, and the conversation can quickly shift from industry banter about the latest billion-dollar acquisition to the type of private jet people own.
This is where a select group in the Valley are oblivious to the rest of the world, ensconced in their own protective bubble. In the rest of America, where the unemployment rate is stuck above 8 percent, people are struggling to cover their mortgages or to find jobs that won't be replaced by technology or sent overseas. In Silicon Valley, some people are worrying about which multimillion-dollar home they can buy - there are only so many available, after all - or whether their handcrafted jeans subtly signal that the wearer is more attuned to aesthetics, like, say, Steve Jobs was.
This is a company town, like Los Angeles and the movies, or Washington and politics. Everything revolves around the tech industry; there is often nowhere to hide.
Like other tech reporters I have spoken with, I often hear pitches for people's start-ups in the most bizarre places: waiting in line at coffee shops or on the beach. "Hey! You're Nick Bilton from The Times!" I once heard someone yell when I was standing at a bathroom urinal. "I'm an entrepreneur - can I show you my new iPhone application?"
Everyone here introduces themselves as an "entrepreneur." It's as if they hand out the title at the airport when you arrive. "Welcome to San Francisco, you are now an entrepreneur! Which start-up T-shirt would you like?"
This belief that everyone is an entrepreneur has a stultifying effect. It can drive founders to seek an easy acquisition instead of a quest for true innovation and a sustainable, profitable business - a truly entrepreneurial challenge.
There is also a bizarre micro-celebrity culture here. People who are famous within the Valley but wouldn't be noticed anywhere else in the world, even if they were spray-painted fluorescent yellow, create copycat start-ups, with only slight modifications on a previous success - a diminutive variation of Facebook, Instagram or Twitter.
But there is another side to the Valley. One where people are building truly innovative companies. Where founders aren't driven by seeing their name on tech blogs or tweeting a picture of themselves with their new investors, M.C. Hammer or Ashton Kutcher.
There are truly excited inventors, designers and programmers here, some of the brightest people in the United States, who are trying to build something that will fix a problem in the world. This is why I love working in Silicon Valley.
Where else in the world would people try to make a better and more efficient taxi service, thermostat or tool for revolt? Where else would they reinvent education, the Boy Scouts and even government? And there are those who are helping the economy, creating services that enable people to find new forms of income.
Once you are able to navigate through the sludge of pandering and ostentation, you can see there is truly magical work taking place.
Luckily for people who live outside the bubble of Silicon Valley, there is a wonderful group of creators here who believe that everything is broken and that technology, creativity and guts can actually fix it.

        
What Marissa Mayer Means for Silicon Valley Women
        
Vinod Khosla: Maintain the Silicon Valley Vision
        
Daily Report: Reality TV Comes to Silicon Valley
        
Untold Stories From Hacker Hostels
        
Daily Report: Hostels for the Hopeful Young in Silicon Valley

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); CELEBRITIES (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%) Silicon Valley; Computers and the Internet; Entrepreneurship; Silicon Valley (Calif); Internet; Start-ups

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (94%) Silicon Valley (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



840 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Sticky Wages and the Macro Story

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: How the world works, not what's wrong with it. 

 BODY:
A bit more methodology discussion. I've written quite a lot about sticky wages, aka downward nominal wage rigidity, which is one of those things that we can't derive from first principles but is a glaringly obvious feature of the real world. But I keep running into comments along the lines of "Well, if you think sticky wages are the problem, why aren't you calling for wage cuts?"
This is a category error. It confuses the question "What do we need to make sense of what we see?" with the question "What is the problem?" So let me talk about that.
When Keynes argued against the "classical economists", he was to a large degree arguing against the view that there is no such thing as involuntary unemployment -- a view often defended, then and now, by an appeal to the usual logic of supply and demand. If we're looking at the market for, say, wheat, and there's an excess supply -- sellers want to sell more than buyers want to buy -- we expect to see the price fall rapidly to clear the market. So if there were really a large excess supply of labor, shouldn't we be seeing wages plummeting?
And the answer is no -- wages (and many prices) don't behave like that. It's an interesting question why, one that has to be answered in terms of psychology and sociology, but it's simply a fact that actual cuts in nominal wages happen only rarely and under great pressure. So wage stickiness is an essential part of a demand-side story about what's going on with the economy; it's how you answer the question of why wages aren't falling.
But that's not at all the same thing as saying that excessive wages are the problem. (I'm focusing here on a country with its own floating currency, like the US or the UK; for members of the euro zone, wages are part of the problem). To be fair, in IS-LM type models that don't include balance sheet effects and also assume that we're not in the liquidity trap, it is the case that the level of employment is determined by M/w -- the ratio of the money supply to the wage rate. So in such models you could say that other things equal a wage cut would be expansionary. But even then it's far easier to just increase M.
In any case, however, we in a liquidity trap, and balance sheet effects are very important. So there is no reason to believe that cutting wages would be helpful; on the contrary, falling wages would worsen the balance-sheet problem, a point some of us have been making for quite a while.
So when I emphasize nominal wage rigidity, I am defending an analysis of how the economy works, which is not at all the same thing as saying that this rigidity is the problem. On the contrary, for the US (though not for countries like Spain), wage stickiness is if anything good for us right now, helping stave off destructive deflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); EURO ZONE (63%); MONETARY UNIONS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (77%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%); UNITED KINGDOM (67%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2012



841 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 22, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2019 words

HEADLINE: The Moral Hazard of Drones

BYLINE: JOHN KAAG and SARAH KREPS


HIGHLIGHT: As in the myth of Gyges, our use of drone warfare confuses our ability to kill without detection with the moral right to do so. 

 BODY:
As the debate on the morality of the United States' use of unmanned aerial vehicles ("U.A.V.'s," also known as drones) has intensified in recent weeks, several news and opinion articles have appeared in the media. Two, in particular, both published this month, reflect the current ethical divide on the issue. A feature article in Esquire by Tom Junod censured the "Lethal Presidency of Barack Obama" for the administration's policy of targeted killings of suspected militants; another, "The Moral Case for Drones," a news analysis by The Times' Scott Shane, gathered opinions from experts that implicitly commended the administration for replacing Dresden-style strategic bombing with highly precise attacks that minimize collateral damage.
Amid this discussion, we suggest that an allegory might be helpful to illustrate some of the many moral perils of drone use that have been overlooked. It shows that our attempts to avoid obvious ethical pitfalls of actions like firebombing may leave us vulnerable to other, more subtle, moral dangers.
While drones have become the weapons of our age, the moral dilemma that drone warfare presents is not new. In fact, it is very, very old:
Once upon a time, in a quiet corner of the Middle East, there lived a shepherd named Gyges. Despite the hardships in his life Gyges was relatively satisfied with his meager existence. Then, one day, buried in a nearby cave, he found a ring.

This was no ordinary ring; it rendered its wearer invisible. With this new power, Gyges became increasingly dissatisfied with his simple life. Before long, he seduced the queen of the land and began to plot the overthrow of her husband. One evening, Gyges placed the ring on his finger, sneaked into the royal palace, and murdered the king.
In his "Republic," Plato recounts this tale, but does not tell us the details of the murder. Still, we can rest assured that, like any violent death, it was not a pleasant affair. However, the story ends well, at least for Gyges. He marries the queen and assumes the position of king.
This story, which is as old as Western ethics itself, is meant to elicit a particular moral response from us: disgust. So why do we find Plato's story so appalling?
Maybe it's the way that the story replaces moral justification with practical efficiency: Gyges' being able to commit murder without getting caught, without any real difficulty, does not mean he is justified in doing so. (Expediency is not necessarily a virtue.)
Maybe it's the way that Gyges' ring obscures his moral culpability: it's difficult to blame a person you can't see, and even harder to bring them to justice.
Maybe it's that Gyges is successful in his plot: a wicked act not only goes unpunished, but is rewarded.
Maybe it's the nagging sense that any kingdom based on such deception could not be a just one: what else might happen in such a kingdom under the cover of darkness?
Our disgust with Gyges could be traced to any one of these concerns, or to all of them.
One might argue that the myth of Gyges is a suitable allegory to describe the combatants who have attacked and killed American civilians and troops in the last 10 years. A shepherd from the Middle East discovers that he has the power of invisibility, the power to strike a fatal blow against a more powerful adversary, the power to do so without getting caught, the power to benefit from his deception. These, after all, are the tactics of terrorism.
But the myth of Gyges is really a story about modern counterterrorism, not terrorism.
We believe a stronger comparison can be made between the myth and the moral dangers of employing precision guided munitions and drone technologies to target suspected terrorists. What is distinctive about the tale of Gyges is the ease with which he can commit murder and get away scot-free. The technological advantage provided by the ring ends up serving as the justification of its use.
Terrorists, whatever the moral value of their deeds, may be found and punished; as humans they are subject to retribution, whether it be corporal or legal. They may lose or sacrifice their lives. They may, in fact, be killed in the middle of the night by a drone. Because remote controlled machines cannot suffer these consequences, and the humans who operate them do so at a great distance, the myth of Gyges is more a parable of modern counterterrorism than it is about terrorism.
Only recently has the use of drones begun to touch on questions of morality. Perhaps it's because the answers to these questions appear self-evident. What could be wrong with the use of unmanned aerial vehicles? After all, they limit the cost of war, in terms of both blood and treasure. The U.S. troops who operate them can maintain safer stand-off positions in Eastern Europe or at home. And armed with precision-guided munitions, these drones are said to limit collateral damage. In 2009, Leon Panetta, who was then the director of the Central Intelligence Agency, said, U.A.V.'s are "very precise and very limited in terms of collateral damage the only game in town in terms of confronting or trying to disrupt the al Qaeda leadership." What could be wrong with all this?
Quite a bit, it turns out.
Return, for a minute, to the moral disgust that Gyges evokes in us. Gyges also risked very little in attacking the king. The success of his mission was almost assured, thanks to the technological advantage of his ring. Gyges could sneak past the king's guards unscathed, so he did not need to kill anyone he did not intend on killing. These are the facts of the matter.
What we find unsettling here is the idea that these facts could be confused for moral justification. Philosophers find this confusion particularly abhorrent and guard against it with the only weapon they have: a distinction. The "fact-value distinction" holds that statements of fact should never be confused with statements of value. More strongly put, this distinction means that statements of fact do not even statements of value. "Can" does not imply "ought." To say that we target individuals without incurring troop casualties does not imply that, we to.
This seems so obvious. But, as Peter W. Singer noted earlier this year in The Times, when the Obama administration was asked why continued U.S. military strikes in the Middle East did not constitute a violation of the 1973 War Powers Resolution, it responded that such activities did not "involve the presence of U.S. ground troops, U.S. casualties or a serious threat thereof." The justification of these strikes rested solely on their ease. The Ring of Gyges has the power to obscure the obvious. 
This issue has all the hallmarks of what economists and philosophers call a "moral hazard" - a situation in which greater risks are taken by individuals who are able to avoid shouldering the cost associated with these risks. It thus seems wise, if not convenient, to underscore several ethical points if we are to avoid our own "Gyges moment."
First, we might remember Marx's comment that "the windmill gives you a society with the feudal lord; the steam engine gives you one with the industrial capitalist." And precision guided munitions and drones give you a society with perpetual asymmetric wars.
The creation of technology is a value-laden enterprise. It creates the material conditions of culture and society and therefore its creation should be regarded as always already moral and political in nature. However, technology itself (the physical stuff of robotic warfare) is neither smart nor dumb, moral nor immoral. It can be used more or less precisely, but precision and efficiency are not inherently morally good. Imagine a very skilled dentist who painlessly removes the wrong tooth. Imagine a drone equipped with a precision guided munition that kills a completely innocent person, but spares the people who live in his or her neighborhood. The use of impressive technologies does not grant one impressive moral insight. Indeed, as Gyges demonstrates, the opposite can be the case.
Second, assassination and targeted killings have always been in the repertoires of military planners, but never in the history of warfare have they been so cheap and easy. The relatively low number of troop casualties for a military that has turned to drones means that there is relatively little domestic blowback against these wars. The United States and its allies have created the material conditions whereby these wars can carry on indefinitely. The non-combatant casualty rates in populations that are attacked by drones are slow and steady, but they add up. That the casualty rates are relatively low by historical standards - this is no Dresden - is undoubtedly a good thing, but it may allow the international media to overlook pesky little facts like the slow accretion of foreign casualties.
Third, the impressive expediency and accuracy in drone targeting may also allow policymakers and strategists to become lax in their moral decision-making about who exactly should be targeted. Consider the stark contrast between the ambiguous language used to define legitimate targets and the specific technical means a military uses to neutralize these targets. The terms "terrorist," "enemy combatant," and "contingent threat" are extremely vague and do very little to articulate the legitimacy of military targets. In contrast, the technical capabilities of weapon systems define and "paint" these targets with ever-greater definition. As weaponry becomes more precise, the language of warfare has become more ambiguous.
This ambiguity has, for example, altered the discourse surrounding the issue of collateral damage. There are two very different definitions of collateral damage, and these definitions affect the truth of the following statement: "Drone warfare and precision guided munitions limit collateral damage." One definition views collateral damage as the inadvertent destruction of property and persons in a given attack. In other words, collateral damage refers to "stuff we don't mean to blow up." Another definition characterizes collateral damage as objects or individuals "that would not be lawful military targets in the circumstances ruling at the time." In other words, collateral damage refers to "the good guys." Since 1998, this is the definition that has been used. What is the difference between these definitions?
The first is a description of technical capabilities (being able to hit X while not hitting Y); the second is a normative and indeed legal judgment about who is and is not innocent (and therefore who is a legitimate target and who is not). The first is a matter of fact, the second a matter of value. There is an important difference between these statements, and they should not be confused.
Fourth, questions of combatant status should be the subject of judicial review and moral scrutinyInstead, if these questions are asked at all, they are answered as if they were mere matters of fact, unilaterally, behind closed doors, rather than through transparent due process. That moral reasoning has become even more slippery of late, as the American government has implied that all military aged males in a strike area are legitimate targets: a "guilt by association" designation.
Finally, as the strategic repertoires of modern militaries expand to include drones and precision guided munitions, it is not at all clear that having more choices leads strategists to make better and more informed ones. In asking, "Is More Choice Better Than Less?" the philosopher Gerald Dworkin once argued that the answer is "not always." In the words of Kierkegaard: "In possibility everything is possible. Hence in possibility one can go astray in all possible ways."
Some might object that these guidelines set unrealistically high expectations on military strategists and policymakers. They would probably be right. But no one - except Gyges - said that being ethical was easy.
NOTE 


        
Are We Ready for a 'Morality Pill'?
        
The Future of Moral Machines
        
Good Minus God
        
Pinker on Reason and Morality
        
Atheism, Amorality and Animals: A Response

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNMANNED AIRCRAFT (90%); BOMBINGS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); TERRORISM (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (74%); ASSASSINATION (65%); MURDER (55%) counterterrorism; drones; morality; Philosophy; Terrorism; war; Civilian Casualties; Drones (Pilotless Planes); Ethics (Personal); Targeted Killings; Middle East; The Stone

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) Middle East

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



842 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1504 words

HEADLINE: ... A Bumpy Past

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
TOKYO -- When Saki Kumagai buried the penalty kick that clinched Japan's first Women's World Cup title last July, it touched off a celebration of joy, pride and relief: the joy of defeating the United States for the first time in 26 tries; the pride of upsetting a faster, larger rival; and the relief for a nation still in shock from a devastating earthquake and tsunami months earlier.
The triumph was also a watershed for women's soccer in Japan, which has long struggled for legitimacy and financial stability. Attendance at Nadeshiko League games and international matches has skyrocketed, companies have rushed to strike sponsorship deals, and the players on the national squad have become celebrities.
Although many inside the game welcome the newfound attention, they are wary. If Japan does not keep winning internationally and the domestic women's league does not become more professional, the good times could disappear. 
''The players can't forget the enthusiasm of the national team,'' said Tamotsu Suzuki, the coach of Japan's team two decades ago. ''They have to keep playing hard, be polite and never give up.
''If they don't do things right, it will be the same as in the past.''
Over coffee in Tokyo recently, Suzuki recalled those dark days. In the 1990s, some players had to borrow money to travel abroad with the national team. Only a few hundred fans attended women's games, and the teams did not sell tickets -- because if they did, stadium owners would charge higher rent. Japan's economic funk led companies to disband their teams, including the brokerage Nikko Shoken, which in 1998 stopped financing the Dream Ladies, which had won three straight league titles. A top executive from the company went to the clubhouse to tell the players, who tearfully pleaded with him to reconsider.
Suzuki, who also coached that Nikko Shoken team, remembers the frustration that his players felt. The men's J-League was in the spotlight and growing, but women's soccer was an afterthought.
''When the J-League started, some of my players said, 'Why was I born a girl?' '' Suzuki recalled. ''We were working so hard, but it still wasn't enough.''
The fear of returning to obscurity is a big motivation for Japan, which is trying to become the first women's team to hold the World Cup and Olympic titles simultaneously. For older stars like Homare Sawa, the world's top female player in 2011, the Olympics could be a happy swan song. For younger players, the Olympics are a chance to show that their World Cup victory was not a fluke.
''I think the U.S. doesn't particularly think they lost to us yet, so we have to win a gold medal at the London Olympics,'' said Aya Miyama, who replaced Sawa as captain of the national team.
Japan will face a rough road. In the first round, it plays Sweden and Canada, which are ranked fourth and seventh in the world. If Japan gets through, it will probably face Brazil in the knockout rounds. Then there are the Americans, who have won three of the past four Olympic tournaments and are itching for revenge, which Japan's coach, Norio Sasaki, acknowledged in a recent interview here. But he said there was no more pressure than usual on his team.
The Japanese are the only team to beat the United States this year (they also played to a draw in April), so at least in public, the Americans have been careful to show them respect.
''They are the best team in the world right now,'' said Hope Solo, the United States goalkeeper. ''I don't know why we have the No. 1 ranking.''
The Japanese are not used to being considered a soccer power. In addition to their proclivity for modesty, many players are still coming to grips with their sudden fame.
''People look at me differently,'' said Azusa Iwashimizu, a defender on the World Cup team who plays for the NTV Beleza club at home. ''If we didn't win, I wouldn't know the world. I'm happy to experience it, but I feel strongly that I have to be careful not to lose myself.''
For years, women's soccer in Japan was trotted out at the Olympics and the World Cup but mostly ignored. At the same time, Japan embraced its men's national team and the glossy J-League, which made its debut in 1993 and was crucial to the country's effort to host the World Cup with South Korea in 2002.
Title IX in the United States started a boom in participation that strengthened the national team. Without that legal imperative in Japan, many high schools and colleges do not offer soccer for girls and women.
In the early days, women were treated like children. At the first national tournament in 1980, the rules called for a smaller pitch, eight players to a side, 25-minute halves and a ball designed for boys. Girls could use their hands to prevent the ball from hitting their chests.
''This was really discriminatory, but the rules were probably taken seriously at the time,'' Suzuki, the former national coach, said.
In the 1980s, when the economy was booming, companies started sponsoring women's club teams, which mainly played on dirt fields. Practices were held in the evenings because the players held jobs. With little money for travel, the teams mainly played local rivals.
That changed in 1989 at the height of Japan's economy. Companies like Nissan and Yomiuri, the nation's largest newspaper, sponsored teams in a new semiprofessional women's league. Many players were given office jobs and had access to better training facilities, including grass fields.
''There were only six teams and just a few hundred fans, but I was really happy when the league started, because I could play nationally,'' said Midori Honda, who played during the league's first few seasons.
Honda, who later became the first woman to coach a Japanese club team, was also a midfielder for Japan's first national team in 1981. In its debut, Japan lost to Taiwan, 1-0, in Hong Kong. While gratified to play on an international stage, Honda said she and her teammates were shocked that their opponents, even from tiny Taiwan, were faster, stronger and fiercer.
Japan's appearance at the inaugural World Cup in Beijing in 1991 was brief: losses to Brazil (1-0), Sweden (8-0) and the United States (3-0). During the next 20 years, Japanese women's soccer steadily improved along with the men's, as a result of the national obsession with learning proper technique. In a country where the group trumps the individual, Japanese coaches have focused on teaching all players, often at young ages, not just on grooming elite athletes.
''Practice seems to take on a different importance in Japanese lives than to Westerners,'' said Tom Byer, a former soccer player who has helped create youth soccer academies throughout Japan. ''There's no on- or off-season; it's 365 days a year. The pool of talented players is much bigger than it used to be in Japan.''
For many years, girls who played soccer had to practice with boys' teams because few girls' teams existed. The girls were, however, excluded from games. But the experience helped them improve and taught them to fight.
''It was good for me to play with boys because the speed, technique and skills were much higher than the girls I played with,'' said Mami Yamaguchi, a midfielder for Okayama Yunogo Belle, a team in the Nadeshiko League. ''When I was young, I didn't know about women's football, because I was playing with boys and I didn't see many girls playing.''
Now 25, Yamaguchi played at Florida State University and with a club team in Sweden. When she returned to Japan this year, what she found was eye-opening. Though teams have access to practice fields, they often share them with other clubs. Locker rooms and training facilities are far less elaborate than they are overseas. And most players still hold day jobs.
Yet Japan has made inroads internationally. At the 2004 Athens Games, the women lost in the quarterfinals to the United States. In 2008, Japan went one step further, losing to the United States in the semifinals. At home, the Japan Football Association stepped in to bolster the sagging Nadeshiko League.
Now the league is basking in the reflected glow of the women's national team. Attendance at many games is two or three times what it was. Toyota and Konami have become sponsors this year. Teams can afford to pay stipends to a few players.
To capitalize on the sport's popularity, the league is trying to improve what has been an insular and amateurish operation. It is providing workshops for players on ways to deal with the news media and surveying fans to find out who they are and what will keep them coming back.
Still, much work remains. When the Japanese national teams left for the Olympics on the same flight last week, the men were seated in business class while the women, despite their World Cup title, sat in premium economy.
''This is just the beginning,'' said Munehiko Harada, who teaches sports management at Waseda University and advises the Japan Football Association. ''Women's soccer is really just getting out of the Dark Ages.''
Lasting success, he said, ''depends on how we do in London.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Japanese team after capturing its first Women's World Cup title a year ago by beating the United States in a penalty shootout. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KAI PFAFFENBACH/REUTERS)
 AYA MIYAMA, below, captain of the Japanese national team. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); SOCCER (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (77%); CELEBRITIES (75%); TSUNAMIS (72%); SPONSORSHIP (70%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (70%); EARTHQUAKES (58%)

ORGANIZATION: WOMEN'S AFFAIRS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



843 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Protest Gets a Pedestal Among Baseball's Greats

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
Some of the thousands of people who gathered in Cooperstown, N.Y., on Sunday for the annual induction ceremony into the National Baseball Hall of Fame no doubt visited the attached museum to gaze at items connected to memorable moments or the greats of the game.
But one display, near the center of an exhibit called ''Today's Game,'' may have surprised some visitors because of its ties to the Occupy Wall Street movement. 
Inside a glass case was a white jersey with flowing blue lettering and a blue hat that might seem vaguely familiar to Brooklynites of a certain vintage. The team name, however, was the Tax Dodgers; the hat displayed a 1 percent logo.
The items, which were donated by a satirical street theater group tied to Occupy Wall Street, have been included in the Hall of Fame Museum not because of their political content but because they reflect baseball's prominent place in the national landscape, said Tom Shieber, senior curator at the museum.
''Baseball is a pervasive part of the American vernacular,'' Mr. Shieber said. ''It's a language we all speak.''
The idea to form the Tax Dodgers came early in 2012. A group of Occupy Wall Street activists formed a street theater group to satirize people and companies that use lobbying or loopholes to lower the amount of taxes they pay or to eliminate payments altogether.
The group roamed through Midtown Manhattan on tax day, April 17, swinging baseball bats and singing about economic deception to the tune of ''Take Me Out to the Ball Game.'' They visited the Eighth Avenue post office where last-minute filers were standing in line, said Gan Golan, a member of the group, and brought a giant cardboard baseball mitt, emblazoned with the word ''Mitt,'' to a Romney fund-raiser at the Trump Tower on Fifth Avenue.
As a result of such appearances, the Tax Dodgers gained a modest following, and a friend of Mr. Shieber's sent him a clip of the group in action. Mr. Shieber said he was interested in how the group used baseball imagery to communicate a political message, something that many others had done in the past.
For instance, Mr. Shieber said, the museum already owned sheet music for patriotic songs written in 1943 that used baseball metaphors to buoy spirits during World War II, and it had a Currier and Ives lithograph from 1860 depicting Abraham Lincoln and other presidential candidates using baseball idioms to analyze their electoral prospects.
Mr. Shieber asked the Tax Dodgers if they would donate a uniform, and the group sent one by overnight mail. In July, several members of the team drove to Cooperstown, in uniform and accompanied by two cheerleaders. They arrived to find one of their shirts along with a 1 percent cap and a plaque designed by the museum. Next to it was the bat that the Texas Rangers outfielder Josh Hamilton had used on May 8 to hit four home runs in one game.
Mr. Golan, 38, an artist and writer who moved from Oakland to Brooklyn when Occupy protests began last fall, said that he was pleased with the display and hoped that it would help the group's message reach a wider audience. He added that he had never expected the Tax Dodgers to gain the company of players like Willie Mays and Walter Johnson.
''We're playing the bad guys, and those guys are heroes,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A group tied to the Occupy Wall Street protest is featured at the Baseball Hall of Fame. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ATHENA SOULES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (93%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX FRAUD (89%); MUSIC (86%); FUNDRAISING (78%); EXHIBITIONS (77%); STREET ART (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (68%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%); SONG WRITING (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



844 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Long Before London Games, James Bond Tactics

BYLINE: By GREG BISHOP; Scott Sayare contributed reporting from Paris.

 BODY:
As Olympic training became more detailed, more scientific and more complicated, France created an agency in its sports ministry. Its nondescript name -- Preparation Olympique et Paralympique -- masked a more ambitious purpose: to boost medal counts through athletic surveillance, as much Spy Games as Olympic Games, under the direction of a man competitors called the French James Bond.
But France is not the only nation looking for an Olympic edge through stealth. Someone from the United States' BMX cycling team surreptitiously rode the competition course in London for this summer's Olympic Games with a three-dimensional mapping device, specifics of which officials declined to reveal, so the Americans could build and train on a replica of the Olympic track.
And USA Sailing opportunistically snatched up property near the Olympic competition site in Weymouth, England, to build a training base in enemy territory to study weather and current conditions before the Games. 
As the Games have grown in magnitude and in dollars, countries have turned to ever shrewder tactics, like technological investments in training and equipment, painstaking research on opponents, and outright espionage. When the Summer Games begin this week in London, many teams will have engaged in this new Olympic reality -- the gamesmanship of the Games, as coaches and officials seize upon untapped resources often beyond the scope of rules.
''We realized that international competition was becoming more and more pronounced,'' said Fabien Canu, the man known as the French James Bond, who was the French agency's director from 2006 to 2010.
It was Canu who pioneered the use of technology and intelligence gathering to enhance the traditional training methods of Olympic athletes.
''If we continued our little artisanal operation, which was sometimes wonderful, it wouldn't be good enough,'' he said. So he used the Internet and athletes to look for advances in techniques and technologies used by the competition. Among the intelligence his agency picked up: cryotherapy, a recovery technique in which athletes are subjected to low temperatures, was used by Australian rowers.
Revitalized in part by its reconnaissance, France seized 41 medals at the Beijing Games in 2008, and not, Canu said, ''by chance.''
In rowing, where the arrangement of a boat's rigging can affect a crew's time, everyone pays close attention to the opponents' equipment. Before Peter Cipollone won gold in rowing at the 2004 Athens Games for the United States, he coached. As a young assistant, he took his cues from other coaches. This included trips at night to the marina, where he examined opponents' boats to find any competitive edge, logging measurements in notebooks no one ever saw.
''You might see a Brit, an Aussie and a Kiwi doing the same thing,'' he said. ''If you run into them, it's O.K., because we all speak English. We're all sort of on the same side. Like, 'Just having a quick look.' ''
''There's no law against it,'' Cipollone added. ''It's considered bad form to get busted.''
In recent years, increasingly advanced examples have surfaced, as if ripped from the pages of spy novels.
In luge, athletes talked of how they blocked their sleds at starting lines when opposing coaches tried to sneak peeks. The British Olympic Association claimed that two of its databases had been hacked into in late 2007. That same year, Chinese police officers raided weather monitoring equipment used by the British sailing team.
In Beijing, so closely guarded were the hosts' secrets that the 2008 Summer Games became known in some circles as the Spy Games. That started in early 2008, when China sequestered its top athletes at the national sports training center, a compound guarded by paramilitary and Beijing municipal police 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
''We are now entering a period of silence,'' Li Yongbo, the badminton coach, told reporters then.
Preparation Olympique et Paralympique, the French agency known as P.O.P., came about in 2005 after Paris lost its bid for the 2012 Games to London. Canu said he found an ''extraordinary tool,'' with a ''phenomenal richness'' in the most obvious place of all, the Internet. His group set out to harness the Web to gather otherwise unseen information about the competition.
Spending upward of 100,000 euros, or about $121,000, for a custom-built search engine designed by a company that specializes in economic intelligence software, P.O.P. began to track news reports, government documents, Web sites and archives in various countries. France employed two full-time ''watchers'' to search for and organize the data by country and then by sport. Such an operation, while legal, would have been unheard-of -- not to mention impossible -- a mere 20 years ago.
The French agency also taught individual sports federations to perform systematic debriefings of trainers and coaches upon returning from international competitions. Canu saw all of this as an evolution of more traditional training -- run, jump, lift, rest -- something all the elite countries practiced in some form, only under different names. Some called it innovation. Others called it research and development. The French labeled their efforts as surveillance, or intelligence. Canu has been quoted saying, ''Sports espionage is the reality these days.''
Before Vancouver, British Columbia, hosted the Winter Olympics in 2010, Canada created an arm for research and innovation known as Top Secret, and everyone involved signed nondisclosure agreements, engineers included, lest their intelligence end up in the hands of the competition. The wildly successful British track-cycling program labeled its program the Secret Squirrel Club, and it produced a superbike made from components used in Formula One racing and the aerospace industry.
Canada created its Top Secret initiative as part of a larger program, Own the Podium, in 2005. A sizable increase in financing, much of it from corporate sponsors keen on ballooning the host's medal count, provided Top Secret with more than $2 million each year for five years leading into the Olympics. That went to 55 projects, and included about 18 institutes and 3 think tanks.
Dr. Jon Kolb, a director of sports science, medicine and innovation, Canada's answer to Canu, led the program. He said he could not quantify how many medals Top Secret ultimately produced. Its financing is now lower, its name changed, but Kolb and his colleagues are already pointed toward the Olympics in 2014 and 2016.
''London is way in my rearview mirror,'' he said while at an airport, on his way to a research summit in Europe. ''We've already got projects for Rio in the works. I can't tell you what they are, of course.''
As the London Games approached, the United States BMX team performed its reconnaissance at a test event in London -- without consent of the hosts. According to the national team coach James Herrera: ''We had guys on the ground, taking video, 3D-, engineering-type images. So we knew how many feet it was going to be from the base of the ramp to the first obstacle, how high, how far.''
But Olympic officials changed the course in January. The United States team flew the same builder back to the Olympic Training Center in Chula Vista, Calif., and altered its replica course accordingly. Officials declined to provide details but did speak to the advantages such a course provided. ''Massive'' is how Herrera described it, noting how the American team built a replica track for Beijing, too, from drawings mostly, and won half of the six BMX medals.
Reports from Britain noted how the British track cyclists filmed Australian coaches who were filming their training sessions at a recent competition. ''The espionage out here has reached such farcical levels that our lot are filming their lot filming our lot,'' an article in The Daily Mail began.
Many of the involved parties declined to speak about espionage, past or present. A true spy never reveals his tricks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Windsurfers near Weymouth, England, where USA Sailing snatched up property to study conditions before the Games. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT CARDY/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); ESPIONAGE (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (88%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ROWING (78%); WATER SPORTS (73%); CYCLING (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); INTERNET & WWW (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



845 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 271 words

HEADLINE: A Path for Newspapers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Fissures Are Growing for Papers'' (Media Equation column, July 9), David Carr catalogs several hurdles for newspapers. 
Yes, newspapers -- and many other companies -- are challenged by economic and cultural trends. In response, newspapers are innovating and experimenting with a variety of methods to drive new revenue and customers. Some of these are radical departures from the established business model, such as developing all-purpose digital agencies, social media-based news readers and partnerships with platform providers.
I do agree with Mr. Carr's observation that great journalism ''is the one sure hedge against irrelevancy.''
And great newspaper journalism continues to thrive in American communities:
In Florida, The Tampa Tribune investigated how recipients of grants from the state's jobs incentives fund failed to meet obligations.
In Ohio, The Columbus Dispatch found that data-processing workers routinely inflated schools' attendance records.
In California, The Desert Sun in Palm Springs uncovered questionable practices by a community college athletics department.
Insightful local coverage and continued innovation are why newspapers reach more than 160 million adults in print and online in an average week.
Changing market dynamics are driving aggressive innovation by newspapers to develop nontraditional approaches. These new strategies will rankle some, but will in the end enable newspapers to continue investing in the quality journalism valued by the communities they serve.
CAROLINE H. LITTLE President and Chief Executive Newspaper Association of America Arlington, Va., July 12, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOURNALISM (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: NEWSPAPER ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (79%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



846 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEW AMERICAN JOB; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1290 words

HEADLINE: As California Warehouses Grow, Labor Issues Are a Concern

BYLINE: By JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
MORENO VALLEY, Calif. -- As the freeway snakes toward this city an hour's drive east of Los Angeles, the strip malls gradually give way to the warehouses that supply their goods. There are dozens and dozens of them -- in some places, the gray squat buildings are the only things visible from the road -- a labyrinth of sprawling distribution centers for retailers that include Walgreens and Wal-Mart, Toyota and Home Depot.
In the last decade or so, Moreno Valley and the rest of the Inland Empire have become the nation's largest hub of distribution warehouses, where workers sort the imported goods that come through Los Angeles ports. In the industry, known as logistics, those goods are prepared for and delivered to stores across the country.
By most estimates, Inland Empire, with its $300 billion piece of the industry, is the country's most bustling trade gateway. Lured by ''cheap dirt,'' as many here put it, companies are only increasing their demands for large tracts of land in the region. 
Still reeling from the economic downturn, many community leaders in the Inland Empire say they are desperate for jobs, particularly for low-skilled workers, many of whom lost their jobs in construction after the housing collapse. They see the region's warehouses and related delivery industries -- which now employ an estimated 200,000 people, more than Salt Lake City's population -- as the best way out of the doldrums, seeing salvation in the form of shipping containers.
''We know we face challenges, and these bring in jobs and pump up the economy right away,'' said Barry Foster, the director of economic development for Moreno Valley. Last year, the footwear company Skechers opened a worldwide distribution center here, and the city is also moving toward approving plans for a 40-million-square-foot warehouse complex.
''We need to get to the point where we have a job for every household,'' Mr. Foster said. ''Right now we have half of that. These are good jobs that would keep people who are living here working here and have a foothold into the middle class.''
But there are plenty of skeptics. Environmentalists say the parade of trucks has a dangerous impact on the air in the area, contributing to an already high rate of asthma in children. Labor advocates say a vast majority of the jobs provide just minimum wage, often without benefits.
In some warehouses, workers are paid based on how much work they complete, like the number of trucks they empty. In October, a state investigation found that two staffing agencies that supply workers to Wal-Mart distribution centers failed to provide workers with proper information about their wages, making it unclear how much they were earning on the job. The state fined the two staffing agencies more than $1 million.
Julie A. Su, the California labor commissioner, has heard many complaints about the industry since taking office last year. But she said investigations were often stymied because so many warehouses use staffing agencies, which classify workers as temporary, even though they may work for years in the same building.
There are frequent complaints that workers are told to show up each morning -- often with the reminder that the first to arrive will be the most likely to get work -- only to be informed that there is no work for them that day. Under state law, in those cases, workers are to be paid for two hours, but many say they rarely are.
''There seems to be an unfortunate model of subcontracting used to cut costs and really depress the working conditions,'' Ms. Su said. ''It really reflects the economy moving to this kind of day-labor system in a way that really can destabilize the economy.''
After the state investigation, Warehouse Workers United, a union-backed advocacy group, filed a lawsuit in federal court against the agencies in October, saying workers were ''forced to work long hours under oppressive conditions for legally inadequate pay'' that was below the state minimum wage of $8 an hour.
The criticism has done little to slow the growth so far. As of now, there are more than 400 million square feet of warehouses and distribution centers spread through the Inland Empire, roughly the amount of office space in Midtown Manhattan. Dozens more large buildings are being built on speculation, with investors confident that companies will eagerly come in.
For higher-skilled jobs, annual salaries do reach into the middle class, with workers bringing in an average of $46,000. In this area, where unemployment reaches above 15 percent in several cities, such jobs are sorely needed.
''Construction is obviously in great trouble, and here is a place where we can just keep adding jobs -- it is the only industry adding thousands of jobs,'' said John Husing, a local economist who has enthusiastically endorsed the growth of the industry. ''You can have people come here and find a robust blue-collar work force eager for employment.''
Workers in the warehouses frequently complain that it is difficult to know who is in charge at the distribution centers, where multiple subcontractors operate in the same building and workers receive different pay depending on which agency they work with, although the jobs are almost identical.
Limber Herrera, 28, has worked in the logistics industry in the area for more than five years. He now makes $12 an hour emptying shipping containers at a distribution center that processes goods for Wal-Mart. These days, his concerns are less about pay than basic safety at work.
''There's nobody who cares about our health -- there's just pressure to empty cases at a fast pace,'' said Mr. Herrera, who is part of a complaint that Warehouse Workers United filed last week with the state. ''All the dust we inhale, all the heavy things we have to lift with all our strength and no support, it's very hard.''
Over all, the warehouse and logistics industry accounts for roughly 10 percent of all jobs in the Inland Empire, more than any other private industry. But some economists have pointed out that earnings vary widely, with the median annual salary around $32,000. And even that figure does not take into account the thousands of workers who are employed by staffing agencies making minimum wage.
Iddo Benzeevi, the chief executive of Highland Fairview, which owns the 1.8-million-square-foot distribution center leased by Skechers, said that he planned to open several more facilities and that warehouses would increasingly rely on more skilled workers to operate computers.
''This is the center for all of the trade in the world,'' he said. ''You can get to much of the country with a drive of just a few hours.''
The Skechers warehouse is filled with machines that use sophisticated technologies to make basic processes move more quickly and often with little human assistance. Skechers executives said they employed 550 to 800 people in the warehouse depending on the season, but they declined to give any information about the kinds of jobs available and the salaries employees receive.
Some local critics have said the new center has done little to generate new jobs, since many of them were simply moved from six smaller warehouses the company had operated for several years in Ontario, about 20 miles to the west.
''It's attractive because it's something that governments can take advantage of now,'' said Jordan Levine, the director of economic research at Beacon Economics, a research and consulting firm. ''There's no need to have to recruit an educated work-force base or have a lot of strategy around.''
He added: ''All that stuff takes time and money and decades to bear fruit. This is far more expedient.''
THE NEW AMERICAN JOB: Articles in this series are looking at the changing nature of occupations and careers.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In Moreno Valley, Calif., where much of the state's logistics industry is based, a new distribution center is being built, top. Skechers opened a warehouse, left and above, in the city last year. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); FOOTWEAR (76%); CHILDREN (76%); MINIMUM WAGE (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (69%); DISMISSALS (69%); LAYOFFS (65%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); ASTHMA (50%)

COMPANY: INLAND EMPIRE NATIONAL BANK (RIVERSIDE CALIFORNIA) (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



847 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: Beyond the Bubble In Silicon Valley

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
It is still up for debate whether there is a bubble in Silicon Valley.
One thing I know for sure: much of Silicon Valley is enveloped in a bubble.
I moved to the center of the tech industry from New York City last year, and I have never experienced anywhere quite like the Valley.
The money here is obscene. The newly minted rich are obsessed with outperforming their rivals. One industry party I attended had a jungle theme. This included a real, 600-pound tiger in a cage and a monkey that would pose for Instagram photos. A prominent Googler's Christmas party in Palo Alto had mounds of snow in the yard to round out the festive spirit. It was 70 degrees outside. Sean Parker, a founder of Airtime, threw a lavish, $1 million party that included models he hired to roam the room and a performance by Snoop Dogg. 
Eat dinner with start-up founders and venture capitalists, and the conversation can quickly shift from industry banter about the latest billion-dollar acquisition to the type of private jet people own.
This is where a select group in the Valley are oblivious to the rest of the world, ensconced in their own protective bubble. In the rest of America, where the unemployment rate is stuck above 8 percent, people are struggling to cover their mortgages or to find jobs that won't be replaced by technology or sent overseas. In Silicon Valley, some people are worrying about which multimillion-dollar home they can buy - there are only so many available, after all - or whether their handcrafted jeans subtly signal that the wearer is more attuned to aesthetics, like, say, Steve Jobs was.
This is a company town, like Los Angeles and the movies, or Washington and politics. Everything revolves around the tech industry; there is often nowhere to hide.
Like other tech reporters I have spoken with, I often hear pitches for people's start-ups in the most bizarre places: waiting in line at coffee shops or on the beach. ''Hey! You're Nick Bilton from The Times!'' I once heard someone yell when I was standing at a bathroom urinal. ''I'm an entrepreneur - can I show you my new iPhone application?''
Everyone here introduces themselves as an ''entrepreneur.'' It's as if they hand out the title at the airport when you arrive. ''Welcome to San Francisco, you are now an entrepreneur! Which start-up T-shirt would you like?''
This belief that everyone is an entrepreneur has a stultifying effect. It can drive founders to seek an easy acquisition instead of a quest for true innovation and a sustainable, profitable business - a truly entrepreneurial challenge.
There is also a bizarre micro-celebrity culture here. People who are famous within the Valley but wouldn't be noticed anywhere else in the world, even if they were spray-painted fluorescent yellow, create copycat start-ups, with only slight modifications on a previous success - a diminutive variation of Facebook, Instagram or Twitter.
But there is another side to the Valley. One where people are building truly innovative companies. Where founders aren't driven by seeing their name on tech blogs or tweeting a picture of themselves with their new investors, M.C. Hammer or Ashton Kutcher.
There are truly excited inventors, designers and programmers here, some of the brightest people in the United States, who are trying to build something that will fix a problem in the world. This is why I love working in Silicon Valley.
Where else in the world would people try to make a better and more efficient taxi service, thermostat or tool for revolt? Where else would they reinvent education, the Boy Scouts and even government? And there are those who are helping the economy, creating services that enable people to find new forms of income.
Once you are able to navigate through the sludge of pandering and ostentation, you can see there is truly magical work taking place.
Luckily for people who live outside the bubble of Silicon Valley, there is a wonderful group of creators here who believe that everything is broken and that technology, creativity and guts can actually fix it.
E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (76%); CELEBRITIES (71%); CHRISTMAS (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (65%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



848 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: News From the Advertising Industry

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
Accounts
Nascar, Daytona Beach, Fla., chose Ogilvy & Mather Worldwide, New York, part of WPP, to serve as creative agency of record, an assignment that had been handled by Jump Company, St. Louis. The decision came after a review to find a giant agency that would help Nascar with efforts to broaden its fan base to include younger and multicultural fans. Spending was estimated at more than $50 million.
New Orleans Tourism Marketing Corporation awarded Dentsu America, New York, part of the Dentsu Network unit of Dentsu, its marketing agency of record contract for 2012-13, with the Spears Consulting Group, New Orleans, as its local agency partner. Spending was estimated to $8 million to $10 million. The tourism organization had worked since 2001 with Peter Mayer Advertising, New Orleans, and GMc & Company, New Orleans. Mayer will work on a project basis on assignments like the GoNola mobile app and media and fan guides for Super Bowls. GMc & Company will complete project work in connection with the Treme Bicentennial. 
Old World Industries, Northbrook, Ill., which sells automotive products like Peak antifreeze, Peak motor oil and Herculiner truck bed liner kits, named Borders Perrin Norrander, Portland, Ore., to handle its creative account as well as media planning and buying. Spending was estimated at $12 million. The creative duties had been handled by Energy BBDO, which is the Chicago office of BBDO North America, part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group, and the media duties had been handled by Kelly Scott Madison, Chicago.
People
David Murphy, co-president and director for strategic planning at Barrie D'Rozario Murphy, Minneapolis, is leaving, the agency said, ''to be closer to his family in California.'' A successor is being sought. Mr. Murphy joined the agency in 2007, a year after it was founded by Bob Barrie and Stuart D'Rozario.
David Shulman joined Organic, New York, as chief executive, succeeding Marita Scarfi, who left, the agency said, to pursue other interests. Mr. Shulman had been president at Wunderman, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP. Organic is part of the BBDO Worldwide division of the Omnicom Group.
Donald A. Baer, worldwide vice chairman and chief strategy officer at Burson-Marsteller, New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group unit of WPP, was named worldwide chief executive, succeeding Mark Penn, who is leaving after seven years to join the Microsoft Corporation as corporate vice president for strategic and special projects.
Luca Lindner, president for the operations of the McCann Worldgroup in Latin America, the Middle East and Africa, who is based in Sao Paulo, Brazil, was named president for the McCann Worldgroup Americas operations, adding North America to his oversight of Latin America. He will now be based in New York and maintain an office in Sao Paulo. Mr. Lindner's duties overseeing the Middle East and Africa will be assumed by Gustavo Martinez, president for the McCann Worldgroup European operations. The McCann Worldgroup is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies.
Jim Helberg joined RPA, Santa Monica, Calif., as senior vice president for media strategy, integration and analytics, a new post. He had most recently been executive vice president for product marketing and analytics at Autobytel, Irvine, Calif.
Stacey Lynn Schulman joined TVB, New York, as senior vice president and chief research officer, a new post. She had been senior vice president for research at Turner Broadcasting System, part of Time Warner. TVB was formerly known as the Television Bureau of Advertising.
Ed James returned to Cornerstone, New York, and resumed his job as president of the agency's public relations division. Mr. James will be based in Nashville, where he had been vice president for global public relations at the Gibson Guitar Corporation since leaving Cornerstone.
Miscellany
Conde Nast Media Group, New York, part of the Conde Nast Publications unit of Advance Publications, completed a reorganization that included the layoffs of about a dozen employees, including Thomas Hartman, who had been senior vice president for corporate sales. Josh Stinchcomb, vice president for digital sales, was promoted to vice president for corporate partnerships.
Fleishman-Hillard is starting a specialty offering aimed at helping companies reach Muslim consumers. Fleishman-Hillard Majlis will be based in the agency's Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, office. Fleishman-Hillard is part of the Diversified Agency Services division of the Omnicom Group.
GroupM, part of WPP, reduced its estimates for ad spending growth this year, both in the United States and globally, because of economic uncertainties. A previous estimate that worldwide ad spending would rise 6.3 percent this year compared with 2011 has been revised downward to an increase of 5.1 percent. And a previous estimate that American ad spending would grow 4 percent this year compared with 2011 was revised downward to an increase of 3.6 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (91%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (87%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (76%); STRATEGIC PLANNING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TOURISM (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (69%)

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (93%); OGILVY & MATHER WORLDWIDE (93%); DENTSU INC (92%); WPP PLC (85%); NEW ORLEANS TOURISM MARKETING CORP (72%); MURPHY CO (66%); MICROSOFT CORP (62%); MCCANN WORLDGROUP (62%); OLD WORLD INDUSTRIES INC (55%); BBDO NORTH AMERICA (54%); BURSON-MARSTELLER (52%); YOUNG & RUBICAM GROUP LTD (52%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (93%); 4324 (TSE) (92%); WPPGY (NASDAQ) (85%); WPP (LSE) (85%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (93%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (93%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (85%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (85%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (85%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (85%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (72%); NAICS321212 SOFTWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC2436 SOFTWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD (66%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (62%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (62%); NAICS336320 MOTOR VEHICLE ELECTRICAL & ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3694 ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT FOR INTERNAL COMBUSTION ENGINES (55%); SIC3599 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (91%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); BRAZIL (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); LATIN AMERICA (90%); MIDDLE EAST (70%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



849 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: A Week in the Life of Libor

 BODY:
The Justice Department is now expected to file criminal charges this year against at least one big bank in connection with the rate-rigging scandal, while building cases against other banks and their employees. This is welcome news: prosecuting financial crimes is essential to restoring public trust in the banking system and in the willingness of the authorities to police it.
Meanwhile, the furor over how banks fiddled with the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, for their own advantage is now in the buck-passing phase, as bankers and regulators alike attempt to minimize their role. 
It is a disturbing and disheartening spectacle. On CNBC last week, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner defended his actions in 2008, when he headed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York -- a time when the New York Fed knew Barclays was reporting false rates but did not stop or expose the misconduct. Mr. Geithner told CNBC he briefed other American regulators and British authorities on his concerns that the Libor process was ''flawed and vulnerable to misrepresentation.'' But to hear him tell it, the issue was a plumbing problem, not a potentially criminal and certainly improper pattern of rate rigging.
The British authorities to whom Mr. Geithner directed his concerns -- Mervyn King and Paul Tucker, the governor and deputy governor, respectively, of the Bank of England -- have testified that the New York Fed's warnings did not set off any alarms because they contained no allegations of wrongdoing and seemed to echo many concerns raised about technical difficulties in setting the rate. But documents released on Friday by the Bank of England suggest that the central bank knew about potential manipulation in 2007.
Further investigation will have to settle the who-knew-what-when controversy. For now, the trans-Atlantic back and forth is yet another example of the deplorable state of financial regulation during the run-up to the financial crisis. It also shows how hard it is to get to the bottom of a controversy when the officials in positions of power now -- like Messrs. Geithner, King and Tucker -- are the same people who were running things when the misconduct occurred. Going forward, Mr. Geithner should recuse himself from any investigations into the rate rigging, including any inquiries that may be conducted by the Financial Stability Oversight Council, a panel of regulators created under the Dodd-Frank law and led by the Treasury secretary himself.
And when the time comes to choose a new Treasury secretary -- Mr. Geithner has said he does not expect to remain if President Obama is re-elected -- the next president would do well to look for candidates among the regulators who have distinguished themselves by their willingness to confront the banking system's manifest problems. One such person is Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, which pursued the rate-rigging allegations against Barclays, securing a record fine and referring the matter to the Justice Department for criminal investigation.
Equally important, the Libor scandal cannot be reduced to a technocratic issue over how to best set interest rates. Central bankers and other financial officials need to find a replacement for Libor, which is deeply flawed.
But the real issue is how to reform the banks themselves. The Libor scandal is, in large part, the result of the bonus-driven bank culture, built on big returns and excessive risk. Speculative impulses also drove the recent multibillion-dollar losses at JPMorgan Chase and, obviously, the mortgage bubble. These impulses have not yet been curbed, let alone eliminated in federally insured banks, and until they are the taxpayers who stand behind the financial system remain in peril.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); MISCONDUCT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FUTURES (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); SCANDALS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); INTERBANK LENDING (56%); SECURITIES TRADING (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



850 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1192 words

HEADLINE: The Stylish Side of China

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY and JONATHAN LANDRETH; Christine Haughney reported from New York and Jonathan Landreth from Beijing.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Zena Hao, a 24-year-old publicist, avid follower of fashion trends and proud owner of four Prada handbags, has a new passion: fashion magazines. She carries home hefty copies of Vogue and Harper's Bazaar and studies the pictures for inspiration.
''Before university, I didn't read them that much because the photographs weren't that good,'' Ms. Hao said. ''But now in the last three to four years, they've gotten so much better.''
Ms. Hao's enthusiasm for fashion magazines thick with advertisements for Louis Vuitton handbags and Chanel lipsticks are a welcome source of revenue for magazine publishers based in New York. While fashion labels are spending more on magazine advertising in the United States, they're pouring even more money into magazines across mainland China.
Publishers willing to contend with censorship, relationships with local business partners and low-level corruption common in many Chinese businesses are being rewarded so far. 
Late last year, Cosmopolitan editors in China started splitting its monthly issue into two magazines because it was too thick to print. Elle now publishes twice a month because issues had grown to 700 pages. Vogue added four more issues each year to keep up with advertising demand. Hearst is even designing plastic and cloth bags for women to easily carry these heavy magazines home.
''We never take anything for granted. But so far this year, we look like we're having a pretty good year of growth,'' said Duncan Edwards, president and chief executive of Hearst Magazines International, which has agreements to have 22 magazines, including Elle and Harper's Bazaar, published here. ''There is an enormous hunger for information about luxury, and there aren't many other places you can get that information than in fashion magazines.''
Many Chinese women will spend far more of their income than their Western counterparts on these magazines and the products featured inside them. According to a 2011 study conducted by Bain & Company, mainland China ranked sixth in the world for spending on luxury goods ranked by country. In 2010, it was a $17.7 billion market. Louis Vuitton, Chanel and Gucci remain the most desired luxury brands.
For example, both Vogue and Cosmopolitan cost about $3.15, which is significant when the average monthly individual income in Beijing is about $733. Mr. Edwards added that it was fairly common to find Chinese women who earn $15,000 a year spending $2,000 on one luxury item.
''We're going through this wonderful period where huge numbers of women are coming out of poverty into the middle class and beyond,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''Many of these women are choosing to spend on luxury goods.''
Lena Yang, general manager of Hearst Magazines China, who oversees nine publications including Elle and Marie Claire, says that the typical reader of Hearst Magazines in China is a 29.5-year-old woman who is more likely to be single than married. She has an average income of about $1,431 a month and spends $938 a season on luxury watches, $982 on handbags and shoes and $1,066 on clothes.
Ms. Yang says these women often live at home and turn to their parents and grandparents to pay for them. The study also showed that many readers in their 20s saved little.
''Most of them, they are a single child,'' Ms. Yang said. ''That means they don't have to pay for their rent. So all of that goes to pocket money. They have the parents support them and the grandparents. They actually have six persons to support them.''
That's why so many different advertisers want to appear in these magazines. Next to Gucci and Prada in the pages of women's magazines sit some of these homegrown brands, with names virtually unknown outside China, like Ochirly, Marisfrolg, EIN and Mo&Co.
IDG, which works with more than 40 magazines in China, said that advertising spending for women's consumer magazines jumped 16.9 percent through June 1, even as demand to advertise in technology and business magazines slowed. Ms. Yang predicts plenty of growth potential in second- and third-tier cities, where 60 percent of all store openings have taken place in the last three years.
''In China, for them it's still a new experience,'' Ms. Yang said.
Ms. Hao, the daughter of engineers, is eager to embrace and spend on the goods she finds in these magazines. She said that she made more than $1,587 a month as a publicist and that her husband's event planning business was also growing. While her mother has only one real Prada handbag, she continues to shop for them because, she said, ''for my job, it's important that I have the real thing.''
But she also doesn't want to read these magazines digitally. While China remains the second-largest market for iPads behind the United States, and magazine executives fear that readers could all migrate to digital publications, Ms. Hao prefers the paper version.
''Magazines are just like books. People want the real thing, not just a flash on the iPad,'' she said. ''It's different. Reading magazines shows you're taking fashion seriously.''
Of course, for publishers who often profit from licensing agreements, the arrangements in China come with a price. Mr. Edwards said that because all magazines are owned by the Chinese government, Hearst has relationships with two local companies that license the names of the magazines to local publishing companies.
The first company, Hearst Magazines China, which the company bought from Hachette last year, includes magazines like Elle and Marie Claire. Hearst also profits from its 20 percent stake in the Trends Media Group, which has licenses to publish magazines like Cosmopolitan and Harper's Bazaar.
Bob Gutwillig, who introduced Elle to China in 1988, said that in the early days, the Chinese government was so involved in the magazine that it had an employee from the Communist Party assigned to sit in the editorial room. But Mr. Gutwillig said that Elle was largely spared the censorship challenges other types of news organizations faced because the official was less concerned with images in fashion magazines than what appears in traditional news outlets.
Publishing in China also carries its potential for corruption. Magazine publishers interviewed for this article offered widely varying circulation data. There are no widely accepted independently audited reports the way there are in the United States.
Additionally, Angelica Cheung, editor in chief of Vogue, said that advertisers' paying for content was expected and even demanded in this business. She says the magazine stresses that it refuses to do under-the-table deals.
Of course, the publishers recognize that this market could evaporate as the Chinese economy slows. They're especially vulnerable because the magazine industry gets a much smaller overall percentage of advertising than other media, like television, Mr. Edwards said. But for now, as long as their stories of movie stars and fashion trends steer clear of censors, the magazine industry is enjoying the profits.
''We're pretty low-risk,'' Mr. Edwards said. ''Cosmo and Elle and magazines like this are not deemed to be highly likely to offend the relevant government bodies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Many Chinese women will spend a big portion of their income on fashion magazines and products featured in them. (B1)
 Zena Hao, a publicist in Beijing, studies pictures in advertising- laden fashion magazines like Vogue and Harper's Bazaar for inspiration. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SIM CHI YIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (89%); TRENDS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (89%); WOMEN (86%); MAGAZINE ADVERTISING (77%); PRINT ADVERTISING (77%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CENSORSHIP (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (63%)

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (85%); LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (85%); BAIN & CO (63%)

TICKER: MC (PAR) (85%); LVMH (BIT) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%); NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (85%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (85%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



851 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: At Caterpillar, Pressing Labor For Concessions

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
JOLIET, Ill. -- When it comes to dealing with labor unions, Caterpillar has long taken a stance as tough as the bulldozers and backhoes that have burnished its global reputation. Be it two-tier wage scales or higher worker contributions for health insurance, the company has been a leader in devising new ways to cut labor costs, with other manufacturers often imitating its strategies.
Now, in what has become a test case in American labor relations, Caterpillar is trying to pioneer new territory, seeking steep concessions from its workers even when business is booming.
Despite earning a record $4.9 billion profit last year and projecting even better results for 2012, the company is insisting on a six-year wage freeze and a pension freeze for most of the 780 production workers at its factory here. Caterpillar says it needs to keep its labor costs down to ensure its future competitiveness. 
The company's stance has angered the workers, who went on strike 12 weeks ago. ''Considering the offer they gave us, it's a strike we had to have,'' said Albert Williams, a 19-year Caterpillar employee, as he picketed in 99-degree heat outside the plant, which makes hydraulic parts and systems essential for much of the company's earth-moving machinery.
Caterpillar, which has significantly raised its executives' compensation because of its strong profits, defended its demands, saying many unionized workers were paid well above market rates. To run the factory during the strike, the company is using replacement workers, managers and a few union members who have crossed the picket line.
The showdown, which has no end in sight, is being closely watched by corporations and unions across the country because it involves two often uncompromising antagonists -- Caterpillar and the International Association of Machinists -- that have figured in many high-stakes labor battles.
''Caterpillar has been a leader in the past 20 years in taking a hard line,'' said Richard Hurd, a professor of industrial relations at Cornell. Last winter, Caterpillar locked out about 450 workers at its locomotive plant in London, Ontario, and then closed the factory after the union rejected its demand to cut wages by 55 percent. In the mid-1990s, the company vanquished the United Automobile Workers after a 17-month strike by 9,000 workers at eight factories; the union surrendered and accepted the company's concession-filled offer.
The machinists have carried out largely successful strikes at Boeing and Lockheed Martin, ultimately winning better raises and benefits for thousands of members.
Robert Bruno, a labor relations professor at the University of Illinois, said Caterpillar was trying to drive compensation down to a new floor. ''Caterpillar sees this as 'the new normal,' while this union local feels you have to draw a line in the sand to hold on,'' he said. ''Some people are saying the union should be more deferential, more compliant, that it's a bad time to strike. How can you counter a powerful multinational in this economy?''
The current showdown is playing out on a flat stretch along Channahon Road here, 40 miles southwest of Chicago, where 15 strikers stand at the plant entrance during each four-hour picketing shift, with signs saying, ''Fighting for Our Children's Future'' and ''I Am Solidarity.'' The strikers often shout ''scab'' as replacement workers drive into the factory.
Ever since negotiations began in March, Caterpillar has insisted on a wage freeze for its top-tier workers, those employed seven years or more; they average $26 an hour, or $55,000 a year before overtime. For the junior third of the workers who typically earn $12 to $19 an hour, Caterpillar has made no promises but has suggested it might raise their wages based on local market conditions.
Caterpillar has offered workers several modest, one-time payments, but is also demanding far higher health care contributions from its workers, up to $1,900 a year more, according to the union. The company had profit of $39,000 per employee last year.
Carlos Revilla, the plant's operations manager, defended the push for a pay freeze, saying the top-tier workers were paid 34 percent above market level.
''A competitive and fair wage package is a must,'' he said in a statement. ''Paying wages well above market levels makes Joliet uncompetitive.''
But the union says Caterpillar, the world's largest producer of earth-moving equipment, is in no way uncompetitive and should be sharing its prosperity with its workers.
''A company that earned a record $4.9 billion in 2011 and $1.586 billion in the first quarter of this year should be willing to help the workers who made those profits for them,'' said Timothy O'Brien, president of Machinists Local Lodge 851, which represents the strikers. ''Caterpillar believes in helping the very rich, but what they're doing would help eliminate the middle class.''
He said the company wants a pay and pension freeze for longtime workers to push them into retirement and replace them with $13-an-hour workers.
Michael LeRoy, another labor relations professor at the University of Illinois, said Caterpillar has served as a model in legitimizing tough labor strategies, like take-it-or-leave-it contract offers.
Detroit's automakers, for example, followed Caterpillar's lead in adopting a two-tier wage system, lengthy contracts and a special health care trust fund for retirees, although ''it took a bankruptcy to do it,'' said Sean McAlinden, chief economist at the Center for Automotive Research.
Rusty Dunn, a Caterpillar spokesman, said the philosophy of paying market-based wages would help Caterpillar ''keep competitive when times are bad.''
''We think the overall approach will preserve job growth in Illinois and the U.S.,'' he said. Caterpillar has added about 6,500 jobs in the United States over the past year.
The strikers here exude an unusual defiance and pride, boasting that the hydraulic parts they produce require some of the most exacting specifications in heavy manufacturing.
''We make an excellent product here, a product that Caterpillar uses in all its vehicles,'' said Mr. Williams, a machinery repairman. ''That gives us a leverage that the other plants don't have.''
Yet he admits to feeling financial pain. He receives $150 a week in strike benefits, and he said he did not have the $40 needed for his 11-year-old son to play Little League.
The Joliet strikers hope Caterpillar will soon sweeten its offer after concluding that it needs the strikers back to produce vital components.
Caterpillar says that is unlikely.
''We believe we have exhausted the negotiating process,'' Mr. Dunn said. ''The primary strategy, going forward, is to run the plant with the contingent work force as long as the work stoppage continues.''
He added that Caterpillar's offer was ''competitive, reasonable and fair.''
Rose Bain, a striker, grows impatient with such arguments. Earning $15 an hour after two years, she said she could not afford a six-year freeze and did not trust Caterpillar to follow through with the hinted raise for lower-paid workers.
''We're the people who busted our butts to help them make record profits,'' she said. ''We shouldn't be treated like this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Members of the machinists' union on strike in early July at the Caterpillar plant in Joliet, Ill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); STRIKES (89%); MACHINE TOOLS (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LOCKOUTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (71%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (91%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (51%); BOEING CO (51%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (91%); CATR (PAR) (91%); CAT (SWX) (91%); CAT (NYSE) (91%); LMT (NYSE) (51%); BOE (LSE) (51%); BAB (BRU) (51%); BA (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (52%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); ONTARIO, CANADA (52%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



852 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: The Bankruptcy and the Burglar

BYLINE: By PAULA SHEIL. 
Paula Sheil teaches English at San Joaquin Delta College.

 BODY:
Stockton, Calif.
ONE night this May, a burglar kicked our front door out of its frame, leaving the trim in splinters. We returned home to find the flat-screen TV abandoned on the living room floor. Better, lighter booty was upstairs. The thief emptied my jewelry box and my husband's sock drawer, stuffed the loot in the socks and wheeled it all away in my husband's duffel bag.
A week later, while grading a term paper by a student at the community college where I teach, arguing for drug-treatment programs, I realized that my student and my burglar were versions of the same person. My student did time for drug-related crimes, detailing in his essay the wasted years and the need for therapy instead of prison for his methamphetamine addiction. His words mitigated my fury. 
My thief could someday face me in the classroom. Many of our students have troubled, unproductive backgrounds. Affordable higher education is their second chance. If only every desperate criminal could write -- or dance, or paint, or sing -- his way to a new life.
But Stockton is bankrupt. With nearly 300,000 people, we became, last month, the largest city in America to file for Chapter 9 protection to unburden ourselves of crushing debt. During the real estate bubble, we grew and grew and grew, spending the future's money. When the bubble burst, Stockton didn't merely implode, we went supernova.
What we lost in the process was a $1.3 million endowment the Stockton Arts Commission had so carefully shepherded through the boom and bust. This spring, the fund was simply sucked into the black hole of the city government's debts. The commission, of which I am a former chairwoman, was not even a player in the decision.
Over its 34-year history, the Stockton Arts Commission upheld its mandate to promote the arts to improve the lives of Stockton's citizens. When the recession began, we lost the public arts administrator, then the commission's executive director. We took hits like every other city department. And now the ''golden goose'' arts endowment has been sacrificed. It's not clear what the commission will be able to do in the wake of the bankruptcy.
But the arts aren't dead in Stockton.
The city may not make payroll this month, but local musicians held an impromptu concert and raised $22,000 for the local humane society. Homicides continue in record-breaking numbers, yet residents gather at Victory Park for free summer concerts. Stockton needs a $156 million loan to repair its sewage-treatment center, but the financially stable Stockton Symphony is poised to celebrate its 86th season.
Stockton is a gritty, gang-infested, agricultural, artistic anomaly. This is the area that produced the acclaimed novelist Maxine Hong Kingston, the artist Rupert Garcia, the astronaut Jose Hernandez and so many others.
I don't mean to ignore the woes of the city's retirees, who have already taken cuts in pensions and are about to lose their medical benefits, or be a Pollyanna about our decimated fire and police departments. These cuts affect me, my family and my neighbors. But I cannot lose faith in the arts and education either. Although in tough times they are the first to be cut, they are also what draw people to Stockton; they are the very qualities of life showcased in the city's promotional brochures featuring colleges, arts groups and cultural events. While police and fire departments protect, arts and education promote and propel. They are not lesser obligations.
Every semester, young people -- who come from broken homes, are foster children, are homeless, have substance abuse problems or worse -- enter my classroom and inspire me. One student, the ex-meth addict, slept on his dealer's couch, stole cars to buy drugs, lost his family and nearly his life. He pleaded with his probation officer to get him into treatment after slipping back into drugs even after he got out of jail. Treatment enabled him to gain access to college. In college, he found writing, and wrote himself a new chapter.
There's plenty of blame to go around in Stockton. City managers and leaders have been investigated for their poor decisions. Residents can also blame themselves for buying into the hype, buying into the bubble, ignoring the warning signs and being politically apathetic.
The bottom line is that we have a chance to make more right in Stockton by remembering -- and acknowledging with our votes in the upcoming election -- how significant arts and education are to the future of our city. We must refuse to sacrifice more young people like my student to the coming cuts. He earned an ''A'' in the course and is transferring to a four-year college this fall. I can only hope my thief can find a way to that path.
Bankruptcy isn't a crime. Neither is poverty.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BURGLARY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (75%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); HOMICIDE (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (72%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (70%); METHAMPHETAMINE (68%); GANGS (68%); WRITERS (67%); CITIES (66%); ANIMAL WELFARE (65%); RECESSION (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MUSIC (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



853 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Is Too Big To Regulate

BYLINE: By GAR ALPEROVITZ. 
Gar Alperovitz, a professor of political economy at the University of Maryland, is the author of ''America Beyond Capitalism: Reclaiming Our Wealth, Our Liberty, and Our Democracy.''

 BODY:
College Park, Md.
THE Barclays interest-rate scandal, HSBC's openness to money laundering by Mexican drug traffickers, the epic blunders at JPMorgan Chase -- at this point, four years after Wall Street wrecked the global economy, does anyone really believe we can regulate the big banks? And if we broke them up, would they really stay broken up?
Most liberals in Washington -- President Obama included -- keep hoping the banks can be more tightly controlled but otherwise left as is. That's the theory behind the two-year-old Dodd-Frank law, which Republicans and Wall Street are still working to eviscerate. 
Some economists in and around the University of Chicago, who founded the modern conservative tradition, had a surprisingly different take: When it comes to the really big fish in the economic pond, some felt, the only way to preserve competition was to nationalize the largest ones, which defied regulation.
This notion seems counterintuitive: after all, the school's founders provided the intellectual framework for the laissez-faire turn against market regulation over the last half-century. But for them, ''bigness'' and competition could easily become mutually exclusive. One of the most important Chicago School leaders, Henry C. Simons, judged in 1934 that ''the corporation is simply running away with our economic (and political) system.''
Simons (a hero of the libertarian idol Milton Friedman) was skeptical of enormity. ''Few of our gigantic corporations,'' he wrote, ''can be defended on the ground that their present size is necessary to reasonably full exploitation of production economies.''
The central problem, then as now, was that very large corporations could easily undermine regulatory and antitrust strategies. The Nobel laureate George J. Stigler demonstrated how regulation was commonly ''designed and operated primarily for'' the benefit of the industries involved. And numerous conservatives, including Simons, concluded that large corporate players could thwart antitrust ''break-them-up'' efforts -- a view Friedman came to share.
Simons did not shrink from the obvious conclusion: ''Every industry should be either effectively competitive or socialized.'' If other remedies were unworkable, ''The state should face the necessity of actually taking over, owning, and managing directly'' all ''industries in which it is impossible to maintain effectively competitive conditions.''
At the height of the Depression, eight major economists (including Frank H. Knight) put forward a ''Chicago Plan'' that called for outright ownership of Federal Reserve Banks, the nationalization of money creation, and the transformation of banks into highly restricted savings-and-loan-like institutions.
To be sure, Simons later revised some of his views, and in the main he and others weren't focused on financial crises. After all, in the mid-20th century, banks were far less concentrated than they are today, when the five biggest -- JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Citigroup, Wells Fargo and Goldman Sachs -- dominate the industry, with combined assets amounting to more than half of the nation's economy.
It's also true that not all Chicago School economists (not to mention their descendants) agreed with Simons, especially on the controversial issue of nationalization. But the logic of his argument remains: With high-paid lobbyists contesting every proposed regulation, it is increasingly clear that big banks can never be effectively controlled as private businesses. If an enterprise (or five of them) is so large and so concentrated that competition and regulation are impossible, the most market-friendly step is to nationalize its functions.
What about breaking up the banks, as many on the left favor? Recent history confirms another Chicago School judgment: while a breakup might work in the short term, the most likely course is what happened with Standard Oil and AT&T, which were broken up, only to essentially recombine a few decades later.
Nationalization isn't as difficult as it sounds. We tend to forget that we did, in fact, nationalize General Motors in 2009; the government still owns a controlling share of its stock. We also essentially nationalized the American International Group, one of the largest insurance companies in the world, and the government still owns roughly 60 percent of its stock.
Of course, it would probably take another financial meltdown to make banking nationalization politically tenable. But given how the sector has behaved since the last crisis, a repetition seems inevitable, and sooner rather than later. When it comes, we would do well to keep the work of Henry C. Simons and his acolytes in mind when we contemplate how to rebuild a more equitable economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); MONEY LAUNDERING (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



854 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: In the Bronx, Plans for an Outlet Mall Offering High Fashion at a Discount

BYLINE: By WINNIE HU

 BODY:
Shopping for luxury labels at a discount has long been an obsession for visitors and residents alike in fashion-setting New York City.
Now a real estate developer, the Lightstone Group, is looking to build the city's first upscale outlet mall in the Bronx, according to borough officials who have been briefed on the plans. If realized, the outlet mall could be a drawing card for a city torn between celebrating one-of-a-kind haute couture at Fashion Week and coveting the sales and convenience of mass-retail suburban malls.
''If there was a Louboutin sale in the Bronx, people would go in droves, no matter what,'' declared Amanda Sanders, a New York-based image consultant who commands up to several hundred dollars an hour to dress the comedian Chris Rock and others. 
For years, New Yorkers intent on the outlet-mall experience have piled into cars and buses bound for the Woodbury Common Premium Outlets in Central Valley, N.Y., a colonial-style village in the Catskills overflowing with racks of Versace, Giorgio Armani and Ralph Lauren, all at a fraction of Madison Avenue prices. Or they may head to other designer outlets on Long Island, in Connecticut and in New Jersey.
But while many people want designer clothes and accessories without designer prices (a pair of Christian Louboutin shoes typically costs more than $600), not everyone is willing to spend the day trekking up to Woodbury Common -- 48 miles north of Midtown Manhattan -- and back, Ms. Sanders, 39, said. For that reason, she herself goes only once or twice a year, even though it has been worth the trip: she has scored a Gucci dress and a pair of Chanel ballet flats at bargain prices.
More than 12 million people a year -- many toting empty suitcases for all their designer finds -- descend upon Woodbury Common, according to tourism officials. That makes it one of the top destinations in the state, trumping Niagara Falls (8 million visitors), the Metropolitan Museum of Art (6.3 million), the Statue of Liberty (3.8 million) and the Empire State Building (more than 3.5 million).
''If I tell people that I live near Woodbury Common, they know exactly where I live,'' said Susan Hawvermale, director of tourism for Orange County, home to Woodbury Common. ''If I tell them the name of my town, they don't.''
Ms. Hawvermale, who had not heard of the plan for a rival outlet mall in the Bronx, said she was concerned that it could draw shoppers away.
Simon Property Group, which owns Woodbury Common, declined to comment on the planned Bronx mall or to respond to questions about whether it had considered opening its own outlet mall in New York City.
The Lightstone Group, a company based in New York that has developed and managed outlet malls in Washington; Orlando, Fla.; and San Antonio, bought a 19.2-acre property at 2505 Bruckner Boulevard in the Ferry Point neighborhood for $30 million in May, according to city records. Currently, there is a 14-screen movie theater on site, Whitestone Multiplex Cinemas, and a parking lot. It can be reached by public buses and is about a mile from a subway station.
While the Lightstone Group has not unveiled its plans, a spokeswoman, Michele de Milly, said retail development of the site would bring much-needed jobs and revenue to the Bronx. But she cautioned that Lightstone was ''still exploring the economic feasibility of developing retail on this site.''
The plans for an outlet mall were first reported last month by The Bronx Times Reporter; an article on the subject appeared last week in Crain's New York Business.
Bronx officials said an upscale outlet mall would join a recent spurt of retail development that is reshaping the borough. Prestige Properties is building a $300 million suburban-style shopping center, the Mall at Bay Plaza, near Co-op City, which will feature a Macy's as well as scores of other stores. A new Target is being built near the Lightstone site.
''The Bronx is finally being recognized as a retail haven,'' said Marlene Cintron, president of the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation.
Ms. Cintron -- whose purchases at Woodbury Common include Kasper suits and Dooney & Bourke handbags. -- added that she had already told friends about the planned Bronx outlet mall. ''They were beside themselves,'' she said, including a Connecticut friend who was ''on her way home to let the rest of the neighborhood know.''
But Kenneth Kearns, district manager for Community Board 10 in the Bronx, said that while the board supported more shopping options, it was concerned that the new developments would bring more traffic to three heavily used roadways: Interstate 95, the Bruckner Expressway and the Cross Bronx Expressway.
Lightstone is not required to seek the board's approval for a mall, he said.
''Everybody's going to be coming off that road network into these stores, and it's going to be pretty congested,'' said Mr. Kearns, who said he had been contacted by dozens of concerned residents. ''And of course with the congestion comes air and noise pollution.''
At the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Midtown, where on Thursday morning lines of tourists boarded 55-seat buses leaving for Woodbury Common every 20 minutes, many said they would welcome the convenience of an outlet mall in the Bronx. A round-trip ticket for an adult costs $42, and the trip takes at least an hour each way, longer at rush hour.
Though some said they had never set foot in the Bronx -- let alone pictured it as a mecca for upscale retail -- they reasoned that if it was good enough for the Yankees and Jennifer Lopez, it was surely good enough for Prada and Louis Vuitton.
''Love J-Lo, very fashionable,'' said Tammy Bevcar, an operations manager in her 40s from Toronto. ''I would definitely go.''
John McLaughlin, 51, who was visiting from Northern Ireland with his wife and two sons, waited patiently with an extra-large duffel bag to fill at Woodbury Common with items from Calvin Klein and Timberland.
Mr. McLaughlin perked up when he heard that a future shopping expedition might be no farther than the Bronx.
''It's the hassle of having to come down here and get on a bus versus a short cab journey,'' he said. ''Plus, I have to carry all the bags. That's why I get brought along.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MARLENE CINTRON: President of the Bronx Overall Economic Development Corporation (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION DESIGNERS (92%); LUXURY GOODS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (79%); HAUTE COUTURE (78%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (78%); FASHION DESIGN (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); FASHION SHOWS (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (75%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SUBURBS (73%); MOUNTAINS (72%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (53%)

COMPANY: SIMON PROPERTY GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: SPG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (58%); SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (58%)

PERSON: GIORGIO ARMANI (79%); RALPH LAUREN (58%); CHRIS ROCK (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



855 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1329 words

HEADLINE: Hedge Fund Places Faith In Euro Zone

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Marc Lasry has never been afraid to go his own way.
While other Wall Streeters who supported President Obama in 2008 are rushing to distance themselves from the White House, Mr. Lasry remains one of the president's most loyal backers.
He loaded up on Ford Motor bonds in late 2008 and early 2009 when it seemed that the company might join Chrysler and General Motors in bankruptcy, and made a bundle when it did not.
And after markets rallied in 2009 and 2010, instead of holding out for more gains, he took money off the table and returned $9 billion to investors in his hedge fund.
Now, even as Europe's economic problems worsen and the markets punish giants like Spain and Italy, Mr. Lasry is betting on a long-term comeback for the Continent. This month, his hedge fund, Avenue Capital, finished raising nearly $3 billion for a fund that will invest in the debt of troubled European companies. 
He has committed roughly $75 million of his own money to the new fund. That's still a small part of his estimated $1.3 billion fortune, but Mr. Lasry is among a coterie of hedge fund and private equity managers who are gambling that the euro zone will stay intact and revive over the long run.
Besides Avenue, Blackstone and Kohlberg Kravis Roberts plan to buy assets in Europe and in some cases already have done so, as have other well-known money managers like Leon Black of Apollo Global Management.
Not that Mr. Lasry is expecting a quick turnaround for Europe. ''It's not a three-month bet or a six-month bet,'' he said. ''It's a three- to five-year bet.''
Last week, renewed worries about Spain's ability to keep borrowing sent stocks in Europe tumbling and sparked about a 1 percent decline Friday on Wall Street, though the major United States indexes were up slightly for the week. Mr. Lasry and Richard P. Furst, a senior portfolio manager at Avenue who directs the European strategy, say they expect worries about the Continent to keep rattling the markets, creating buying opportunities for the new fund.
So far, Mr. Lasry and Mr. Furst have put 25 percent to 30 percent of the fund to work, deploying an additional 5 percent or so each month.
''We could invest the whole fund today but you want to average in,'' said Mr. Furst. ''There will be relief rallies, but when the fear comes back in, we buy.''
The two money managers are using the broader fears about Europe to load up on troubled debt of companies in healthier countries in the region. The biggest chunk of the new fund's assets have been invested in Britain, followed by France, with purchases in Sweden and other northern European nations, as well.
They are avoiding Greece, the country where the euro zone crisis began, and the home of one of their more notable mistakes, a losing bet in 2010 on the debt of a Greek casino operator in an earlier European fund. That position has steadily lost value as Greece's outlook has deteriorated. Mr. Lasry and Mr. Furst are also steering clear of troubled giants like Spain and Italy.
Instead, they see opportunity as banks in Europe come under pressure from regulators to shrink their balance sheets and unload debt at deep discounts. Financial institutions also are focusing on home markets, prompting Italian and Spanish banks, for example, to sell off debt from other countries.
In Britain, Avenue's bets include the debt of Punch Taverns as well as Travelodge, a hotel operator burdened by heavy borrowing from an unsuccessful 2006 $1.2 billion buyout by Dubai's sovereign wealth fund.
''Travelodge is a good business but they're having trouble in the current economic environment,'' Mr. Lasry said. Another sizable investment is in Preem, the largest oil refiner in Sweden.
In Preem's case, Avenue bought bonds from holders based in the United States, while Punch's debt was purchased from British insurance companies. Travelodge's debt was acquired from banks in Britain, Italy and Ireland.
In all three cases, Avenue's traders benefited because investors were itching to get out of anything European, even though Sweden and Britain aren't being directly buffeted by the problems in the euro zone and have their own currencies.
''Bad things happen in Spain and Greece, and people want to sell bonds in a refiner that's doing well,'' added Mr. Furst. ''The perceived risk is greater than the actual risk.''
After founding Avenue in 1995, Mr. Lasry initially concentrated on distressed debt of American companies. He invested in Asia after the financial crisis there in the late 1990s, earning big profits when it roared back. He started an earlier European fund in 2004.
The companies Avenue aims for in Europe tend to be midsize, with valuations of $250 million to $1 billion. The first European fund has five-year returns with percentages in the high teens annually, according to Avenue.
The strategy requires investor patience -- and an iron stomach when volatile markets produce roller-coaster returns for Avenue. In 2008, Avenue's total portfolio dropped about 25 percent as investors fled all kinds of assets amid the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the overall market downturn.
When markets recovered in 2009 and big holdings like the Ford bonds soared in value, Avenue's returns jumped by 66 percent, followed by a 20 percent gain in 2010. Returns dropped 10 percent last year, while Avenue is up 10 percent this year, according to the fund. In all, Avenue has $13 billion under management.
Over all, Mr. Lasry's family and colleagues at the firm have more than $800 million in Avenue funds.
''Marc is definitely adventurous,'' said David Bonderman, a fellow billionaire who helped found the buyout firm TPG Capital. Mr. Bonderman was Mr. Lasry's boss when they managed money in the late 1980s for Robert M. Bass, whose family originally made its money in oil before diversifying. ''He's willing to take contrarian risks and he's willing to act promptly. Avenue doesn't have a big bureaucracy.''
''It's still somewhat early, but if you have a feeling that Europe and the euro aren't going to collapse, it's appealing,'' Mr. Bonderman said.
''He looks at every dollar he has under management like it's his own dollar, and that gives him a certain credibility in terms of raising money from investors and keeping them satisfied over the long term,'' said Blair W. Effron, a co-founder of Centerview Partners, a boutique investment bank.
Mr. Effron, who is also Mr. Lasry's brother-in-law, adds that he is a competitive athlete, especially in basketball and tennis.
Mr. Lasry, 52, was born in Morocco and came to the United States as a child. He trained as a lawyer before turning to distressed investing. About once a month, he travels to London, where Avenue has a staff of about 20 that focuses on opportunities in Europe. Over all, the firm employs 275.
From 2006 to 2008, one of those employees included Chelsea Clinton, and Mr. Lasry remains close to the Clinton family as well as President Obama. One of Mr. Lasry's five children recently worked for the White House.
While other prominent Wall Streeters like Jamie Dimon, the chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, have backed away from the president, and others complain that the White House has used bankers as a pinata, Mr. Lasry is more like the last man standing.
Last month, he held a $40,000 a plate fund-raiser for President Obama at Mr. Lasry's Fifth Avenue home, and later this month he plans to hold another fund-raiser for the president at Nomad, a Manhattan restaurant.
Unlike his fellow Masters of the Universe, you won't find Mr. Lasry spending summers on Raiders Row or other luxurious Hamptons hangouts. He prefers lower-key Westport, Conn.
''I'm a value guy,'' he joked. ''I can't afford the Hamptons.''
As for Europe, he seems happy to wait out the waves of fear, like last week's anxiety about Spain.
''Europe isn't going away, and the companies aren't going away,'' Mr. Lasry said. ''You can never time a bottom. What you can do is a time a cycle and five years from now, people will say, 'Why didn't I buy?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marc Lasry, left, chief of Avenue Capital, and Richard P. Furst, who directs the company's European strategy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEDGE FUNDS (92%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BONDS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); AUTOMAKER BANKRUPTCIES (72%); PRIVATE EQUITY (72%)

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (82%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); APOLLO GLOBAL MANAGEMENT LLC (54%)

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (82%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); APO (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); LEON BLACK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); SWEDEN (79%); FRANCE (79%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



856 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 658 words

PERSON: Oswaldo Paya 

HEADLINE: Oswaldo Paya, 60, Cuban Human Rights Fighter, Dies

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- Oswaldo Paya, an eloquent Cuban activist who spent decades trying to build a grass-roots movement that would compel the government of Fidel and Raul Castro to allow more freedom and human rights, died Sunday in a car crash in eastern Cuba. He was 60.
The circumstances of his death were in dispute. Cuban officials said the crash, near the eastern city of Bayamo, occurred when the driver lost control and hit a tree, killing Mr. Paya and another Cuban and injuring two passengers, one from Spain, the other from Sweden. 
But some Cuban dissidents said witnesses saw another vehicle hit Mr. Paya's, and one of his three children, Rosa Maria Paya, 23, said in an interview that she did not believe the crash was an accident. She said her family was still searching for details.
Between bouts of tears, she said that the family had been struggling in recent years -- with pressure on dissidents increasing as economic hardships have worsened -- but that her father never gave up hope that the country could be changed from within.
''He just wanted for Cubans to have their rights,'' she said. ''That's all he ever wanted.''
Mr. Paya, an engineer deeply inspired by his strong Roman Catholic faith, rose to prominence just over a decade ago as the main organizer of the Varela Project, a petition drive seeking to create a legal referendum for guarantees of freedom of speech and assembly, and other human rights.
When he began collecting signatures in the late 1990s, Cuba's domestic opposition movement was virtually invisible. With a mix of isolation and pressure, the Castro government had kept the ranks of dissidents small, and argued that they amounted to little more than mercenaries paid to be mouthpieces for conservative Cuban exiles in the United States. Many Cubans in Havana at the time expressed skepticism about the domestic dissidents' intentions.
But Mr. Paya created a new model with his humility, his public rejection of both American aid and the American trade embargo, and his effort to draw fellow Cubans into the movement.
''What really distinguished him was that, unlike almost all the others, he engaged in retail politics,'' said Philip Peters, a Cuba expert with the Lexington Institute. ''His Varela Project stands out as the only initiative of its time that enlisted citizen participation on a large scale. No one else did that, before or since.''
In 2002, the European Union awarded Mr. Paya its top human rights prize, named after the late-Soviet dissident Andrei Sakharov. In his acceptance speech, he said the prize was ''for all Cubans, because I believe that, in awarding it, Europe wishes to say to them: 'You too are entitled to rights.' ''
But by trying to reform the Castro government, Mr. Paya placed himself in the middle of two extremes. Reviled by the government, he was not much loved by hard-line Cuban exiles in Miami, who appreciated the attention he garnered but said he was naive.
His petition drive ultimately failed. After he delivered 11,020 signatures in May 2002 (he delivered an additional 14,000 later), the Cuban government began its own referendum, which made the island's socialist system ''irrevocable.''
And after many of Mr. Paya's allies were arrested in a 2003 crackdown that sent dozens of dissidents, writers and librarians to prison, he and his Christian Liberation Movement began to fade from international view. A new generation of dissidents arose to grab the spotlight, including the wives of the arrested political prisoners, and young bloggers like Yoani Sanchez.
Still, Mr. Paya never stopped pushing for change, peacefully and with passion. Among the new generation of activists questioning the Cuban government, respect for Mr. Paya has been a constant, though now that emotion has begun to mingle with grief and outrage.
''A faultless man just died,'' Ms. Sanchez wrote on Twitter Sunday night. Without Mr. Paya on the island, she added, ''we have become even more orphaned.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Oswaldo Paya, 60, Cuban Human Rights Fighter, Dies (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADALBERTO ROQUE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (77%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); FREEDOM OF ASSEMBLY & ASSOCIATION (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (71%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); POLITICS (69%); REFERENDUMS (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); PETITIONS (69%); RELIGION (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

RAUL CASTRO (90%); FIDEL CASTRO (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); MEXICO (92%); SPAIN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (72%)

CATEGORY: Activism

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



857 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: To Prepare for Convention, Tampa Restricts Protests

BYLINE: By COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
During the last three Republican national conventions, police officers have arrested hundreds of people as the gatherings have drawn thousands of protesters objecting to the party's positions on a range of issues, from wars to the economy to the environment.
But this time around, the protesters planning to gather in Tampa the last week in August hope their ranks will be swelled by the Occupy movement, whose members have said that they see the party's expected nominee, Mitt Romney, as the embodiment of a financial system that favors the rich and corporations over ordinary citizens. 
Now, in an effort to control demonstrations and prevent disturbances, officials in Tampa are taking unusual steps that they say will help ensure public safety but that many demonstrators and civil liberties advocates say will place unacceptable limits on public dissent.
In May the city adopted a temporary ordinance that will clamp down on protests in dozens of blocks near the Tampa Convention Center. Among other things, the ordinance requires a permit for groups of 50 or more to gather in parks; sets a limit of 90 minutes on parades; and bans an array of items, including glass bottles, aerosol cans and pieces of rope longer than six feet. It also provided for an official parade route for protesters along with viewing areas.
During public debates, some Tampa residents and City Council members opposed the rules, calling them excessive. Others complained that while the ordinance outlawed water pistols, actual pistols were allowed for those with permits to carry a concealed weapon. Although Tampa's mayor, Bob Buckhorn, had asked the state's governor, Rick Scott, to ban firearms during the convention, the governor has refused.
Mr. Buckhorn said the city did its best to accommodate varying interests in coming up with the rules.
''This balances the concerns of the vast majority of people coming here to protest peacefully,'' he said recently, while ''providing for a reasonable expectation of safety for the delegates and the convention guests.''
But protest organizers strongly disagree. Members of a protest group called resistRNC say they will avoid the official parade route and viewing areas. Amos Miers, 35, a spokesman for the group, said members preferred to pick their own spots to assemble and march.
''We were born with the right to move freely from place to place and speak our minds,'' Mr. Miers said.
Weighing security concerns and First Amendment rights has become a quadrennial issue in cities hosting national political conventions. While both major parties' conventions have become targets of protests, the Republican gatherings have involved larger demonstrations and resulted in numerous lawsuits by people who have said that they were wrongly arrested.
Mr. Buckhorn said that in devising the rules, officials in Tampa have studied previous conventions and economic summit meetings that have drawn protesters. The Tampa police have said that they expect the majority of protesters to be law abiding, but that a certain number will most likely be bent on disruption and may engage in vandalism or violence.
Protesters, on the other hand, said that officials may be using the specter of disorder to justify heavy-handed tactics. They added that over the last few years the authorities in cities where large protests took place have appeared to follow a script that includes pre-emptive detainment, indiscriminate mass arrests and infiltration of protest groups.
The resistRNC Web site includes a ''Notice to Law Enforcement Spying on Us,'' which states that the group is not planning violent actions. The site's creators also said that people who identify an informant may receive an award that they have named after Brandon Darby, a man from Texas who worked secretly for the F.B.I. while organizing a group to travel to the 2008 Republican National Convention in St. Paul.
The police may also absorb lessons from the 2008 convention in St. Paul. On the first day of the convention there, large crowds of masked youths smashed bank windows while the authorities appeared to be taken by surprise. Later, officers used plastic bullets and tear gas, sometimes targeting onlookers, journalists and protesters who appeared to have done nothing wrong.
James H. Shimberg Jr., the city lawyer for Tampa, said that the police department there has trained officers in how to monitor protests effectively while respecting the rights of participants.
''Our goal is not to arrest anybody,'' he said. ''But if there are troublemakers out there they will not be tolerated.''
As the convention approaches, both the police and protesters are preparing.
The Tampa government has paid $57,000 to sublease a lot, which will be open to protesters 24 hours a day, a few hundred feet from the convention center. About half of a $50 million federal security grant has been allocated to pay 1,000 local officers and 3,000 officers from other cities to police the protests. The city has also bought gas masks for officers and installed security cameras in downtown Tampa.
At the same time, the National Lawyers Guild is assembling a legal support team of volunteer lawyers from Florida to represent protesters. Members of Occupy groups from around the country are planning caravans to Tampa. And the Rev. Bruce Wright, of the Poor People's Economic Human Rights Campaign, said that he was arranging for an encampment called Romneyville to be set up on private property, where he said the city's rules will not apply.
''We are looking at it as kind of a refuge,'' Mr. Wright said of the camp, adding that on the first day of the convention it will be used as a staging ground for a march meant to highlight the problems of poverty, unemployment and homelessness.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In an effort to control protests like those at the 2008 Republican National Convention in St. Paul, left, Tampa adopted an ordinance to limit activity. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHARTS: Tallying Up Presidential Campaign Finances: Below is a tally of the money raised and spent through June by the presidential candidates, the national party committees and the major ''super PACs'' supporting each candidate. In addition to these committees, nonprofit groups that do not have to file with the Federal Election Commission and other super PACs have spent at least an additional $60 million, primarily against President Obama or in support of Mitt Romney. (Source: Federal Election Commission) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORDINANCES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (88%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (78%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (78%); GUN CONTROL (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); PARADES & MARCHES (70%); FIREARMS (69%); GOVERNORS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ELECTION COMMISSION (84%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); RICK SCOTT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (99%) FLORIDA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



858 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 203 words

HEADLINE: New Take on Foreign Aid

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Nicholas D. Kristof gets it half right in ''Obama's Fantastic Boring Idea'' (column, July 12). It may be fantastic, but it sure isn't boring. America's new approach to foreign aid is transformational, not just for the farmers in Africa, but for how America delivers assistance. 
Under the leadership of Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton and the United States Agency for International Development, our food security program insists on country ownership, metrics for effectiveness and transparency. It is a shift from only feeding the hungry to providing tools to spur long-term economic growth.
This is the right time for a strategic focus on agriculture development, just as President George W. Bush began with global health. And at a time when Americans are demanding results for their tax dollars, our foreign assistance is working better than ever.
Many African economies are growing at 5 to 7 percent a year, representing enormous potential markets and allies for us. That's good for Africa and good for America. That's certainly not boring.
DAN GLICKMAN Washington, July 12, 2012
The writer, agriculture secretary in the Clinton administration, is chairman of the U.S. Global Leadership Coalition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); FOOD SECURITY (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%)

ORGANIZATION: US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (57%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



859 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: In California, G.O.P. Fights Steep Decline

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- This would seem a moment of great opportunity for California Republicans. The state has become a national symbol of fiscal turmoil and dysfunction, the Legislature is nearly as unpopular as Congress and Democrats control every branch of government.
But instead, the state party -- once a symbol of Republican hope and geographical reach and which gave the nation Ronald Reagan (and Richard M. Nixon) -- is caught in a cycle of relentless decline, and appears in danger of shrinking to the rank of a minor party.
''We are at a lower point than we've ever been,'' said Representative Kevin McCarthy, the No. 3 Republican in the United States House of Representatives. ''It's rebuilding time.''
Registered Republicans now account for just 30 percent of the California electorate, and are on a path that analysts predict could drop them to No. 3 in six years, behind Democrats, who currently make up 43 percent, and independent voters, with 21 percent. 
''It's no longer a statewide party,'' said Allan Hoffenblum, who worked for 30 years as a Republican consultant in California. ''They are down to 30 percent, which makes it impossible to win a statewide election. You just can't get enough crossover voters.''
''They have alienated large swaths of voters,'' he said. ''They have become too doctrinaire on the social issues. It's become a cult.''
There is not a single Republican holding statewide office. Democrats overwhelmingly control the State Assembly and Senate. In interviews, Republicans were unable to come up with any names of credible candidates preparing to run for statewide office. By contrast, the Democratic bench is bustling with ambitious younger politicians who are waiting for their moment. It is a giant turnaround since 2003, when Arnold Schwarzenegger knocked out the Democratic governor, Gray Davis, in a recall election and set out to build a more moderate Republican Party.
Republicans said their problems were made worse this year by the emphasis during the Republican presidential primaries on social issues, particularly tough immigration measures and opposition to abortion rights. That focus could make it tougher to win independent voters who are crucial to any Republican resurgence in California.
''The national party is becoming a party of very enthusiastic social conservatives driven by Southerners,'' said Bill Whalen, a fellow with the conservative Hoover Institution at Stanford University. ''It's a problem if you're an independent voter in California. If you think about the Republican Party, what national figure comes to mind? George W. Bush or Newt Gingrich.''
Republican leaders say they are hopeful that they can turn things around because of the troubles befalling Gov. Jerry Brown and the Democratic-controlled Legislature.
''You can only have 11 percent unemployment for so long before the populace gets tired of the people in power,'' said Tom Del Beccaro, the Republican Party chairman. ''The Democrats are in a lot of trouble because they've had the governorship, the Assembly and the Senate, and the budget is way out of balance; unemployment is third-highest in the nation.''
''They don't have any plans related to these problems, other than higher taxes,'' he said. ''And the issues are coming our way because the biggest issues are budget and taxes.''
Mr. McCarthy said the Republican Party would be able to turn itself around if it recruited stronger candidates and presented an alternative agenda for the state.
''I actually believe in the next two and a half years the Republican Party is going to become much stronger,'' he said. ''What we have to do is build candidates who look for solutions, so you can talk about our conservative solutions, but you can't just say no.''
The party's decline in California has occurred even as Republicans have prospered elsewhere. In 2010 -- when Republicans made huge gains across the nation -- they were wiped out here in races for governor and the Senate. In 1994, the last time Republicans enjoyed a national sweep, Pete Wilson, a Republican, was elected governor by a large margin, but Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat, barely won re-election.
''The institution of the California Republican Party, I would argue, has effectively collapsed,'' said Steve Schmidt, a Republican consultant who was a senior adviser to Mr. Schwarzenegger. ''It doesn't do any of the things that a political party should do. It doesn't register voters. It doesn't recruit candidates. It doesn't raise money. The Republican Party in the state institutionally has become a small ideological club that is basically in the business of hunting out heretics.''
''When you look at the population growth, the actual party is shrinking,'' Mr. Schmidt said. ''It's becoming more white. It's becoming older. ''
Over the past decade, Republicans have turned to wealthy business executives like Meg Whitman and Carly Fiorina to run for statewide office. But the party's troubled demographics, as well as the history of these self-financed candidates getting roughed up by the political process, may give pause to other wealthy Californians, party officials said.
The slide began in 1994, when Republicans rallied around a voter initiative, Proposition 187, that would have made it illegal for the government to provide services for undocumented aliens. That campaign created a political rupture with Hispanics at the very moment when their numbers were exploding.
''The manner in which immigration is handled nationally presents a challenge to Republicans in California,'' Mr. Del Beccaro said.
Republicans said they feared becoming further marginalized in November should President Obama win the state by a big margin, sweeping Democratic candidates into office in the Assembly and Senate. (There is one bright spot: Republicans seem poised to lose fewer seats than once feared in the state's Congressional delegation.)
Kimberly Nalder, a political science professor at California State University, Sacramento, says Republicans in California are still too closely identified with socially conservative positions -- on immigration, the environment, abortion and gay rights -- that have put them outside the mainstream in a changing electorate.
''They're just blind to the future,'' she said. ''We're passing the tipping point now, and they are not realizing that.''
This year in San Diego, Nathan Fletcher, a Republican state assemblyman, quit the party to run, unsuccessfully, as an independent for mayor. ''There are a series of issues where I am just fundamentally out of line with the current Republican Party in California -- reasonable environmental protection, equal rights and marriage equality, immigration,'' he said. ''And it's not a party that is welcoming of dissent on those issues.''
What is frustrating for many Republicans is that this should be a moment when they can step in. Though voters might have diverged from Republican Party orthodoxy on social issues, they have, almost without exception, voted against initiatives on the ballot to raise taxes over the past decade. Two weeks ago, Democrats pushed through approval of nearly $9 billion in financing for a high-speed rail project from Los Angeles to San Francisco that polls suggest has grown increasingly unpopular since it was approved by voters in 2008.
''While there are always woes in California, now is worse than ever,'' said Connie Conway, the Assembly minority leader. ''Now the majority party in the Legislature has decided that this train to nowhere is a good idea. A lot of people are really questioning that these days. Californians are waking up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The California Republican Party nurtured the career of Ronald Reagan, and he served two terms as governor. But registered Republicans now account for just 30 percent of the state's electorate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 An Orange County rally in June 2010 for Meg Whitman, the Republican nominee for governor that year, and Carly Fiorina, the Senate nominee. Both women are wealthy executives. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (86%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERVIEWS (74%); IMMIGRATION (50%); ABORTION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (56%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); MARGARET C WHITMAN (79%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); JERRY BROWN (58%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



860 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS The data will include new home sales for June (Wednesday); durable goods orders for June and weekly initial jobless claims (Thursday); and second-quarter gross domestic product and the Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for July (Friday). 
CORPORATE EARNINGS Companies reporting results will include Halliburton, Hasbro, McDonald's and Texas Instruments (Monday); Altria, DuPont, Lockheed Martin, United Parcel Service, Whirlpool, Apple and Netflix (Tuesday); AOL, Boeing, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Caterpillar, Delta Air Lines, Eli Lilly, Ford Motor, GlaxoSmithKline, IAC/InterActiveCorp, JetBlue Airways, Nasdaq OMX, PepsiCo, US Airways, WellPoint, Visa and Zynga (Wednesday); 3M, Boston Scientific, Colgate-Palmolive, Dow Chemical, Exxon Mobil, Hyundai, International Paper, the Interpublic Group, Kimberly-Clark, McGraw-Hill, Moody's, Raytheon, Royal Dutch Shell, Sprint Nextel, United Continental, United Technologies, Volkswagen, Amazon.com, Facebook and Starbucks (Thursday); and Barclays, Chevron, K.K.R., Merck, Newell Rubbermaid and Weyerhaeuser (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Tuesday, the International Swaps and Derivatives Association will review requirements under the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial overhaul law and their effect on the global swaps market; a House Financial Services subcommittee will conduct a hearing on consumers' access to credit; and a Senate Banking subcommittee will hold a hearing on private student loans.
On Wednesday, a House Judiciary subcommittee will conduct a hearing on cloud computing; the House Small Business Committee will hold a hearing about small business survival during the recession; and the Senate Commerce Committee will conduct a hearing on short-supply prescription drugs.
On Thursday, a House Financial Services subcommittee will hold a hearing about the 10th anniversary of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act; Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner will testify before the Senate Banking Committee about the annual report of the Financial Stability Oversight Council.
On Friday, the Commerce Department will announce preliminary antidumping duties on wind towers made in China and Vietnam.
OVERSEAS On Tuesday, inspectors from the European Commission, the European Central Bank and the International Monetary Fund will visit Greece to evaluate its progress in meeting its bailout terms.
On Wednesday, Britain will announce its first estimate of second-quarter gross domestic product. Also on Wednesday, the European Commission will propose changes to a draft law on financial market abuse to introduce punishments for the rigging of interbank lending rates, like Libor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SWAP TRANSACTIONS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); FACTORY ORDERS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); DURABLE GOODS (79%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (79%); BAILOUTS (79%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (77%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); US SARBANES OXLEY ACT (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); AIRLINES (75%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (74%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (72%); STUDENT LOANS (72%); CHEMICALS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (70%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (67%); INTERBANK LENDING (62%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%)

COMPANY: ROYAL DUTCH SHELL PLC (83%); IAC/INTERACTIVECORP (71%); JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (71%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (70%); SPRINT NEXTEL CORP (69%); EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (63%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (58%); FORD MOTOR CO (58%); NETFLIX INC (57%); ALTRIA GROUP INC (57%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (57%); BOEING CO (57%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (57%); WELLPOINT INC (57%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (57%); LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (57%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (57%); PEPSICO INC (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); COLGATE-PALMOLIVE CO (56%); BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORP (56%); RAYTHEON CO (56%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (56%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (56%); DOW CHEMICAL CO (56%); FACEBOOK INC (56%); NEWELL RUBBERMAID INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (58%)

TICKER: RDSA (LSE) (83%); RDSA (AMS) (83%); RDS.B (NYSE) (83%); RDS.A (NYSE) (83%); IACI (NASDAQ) (71%); JBLU (NASDAQ) (71%); IPG (NYSE) (70%); S (NYSE) (69%); KMB (NYSE) (58%); FORDP (PAR) (58%); F (NYSE) (58%); NFLX (NASDAQ) (57%); MO (NYSE) (57%); LCC (NYSE) (57%); BOE (LSE) (57%); BAB (BRU) (57%); BA (NYSE) (57%); TXN (NASDAQ) (57%); WLP (NYSE) (57%); UPS (NYSE) (57%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%); GSK (NYSE) (57%); GSK (LSE) (57%); BIOC (EGX) (57%); LMT (NYSE) (57%); BMY (NYSE) (57%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); CL (NYSE) (56%); BSX (NYSE) (56%); RTN (NYSE) (56%); UTX (NYSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (56%); XOM (NYSE) (56%); DOW (SWX) (56%); DOW (NYSE) (56%); DOW (LSE) (56%); 4850 (TSE) (56%); FB (NASDAQ) (56%); NWL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (83%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (83%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (71%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (71%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (71%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (71%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (70%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (70%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (69%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (58%); NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (57%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (57%); NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (57%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (57%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (57%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (56%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (56%); NAICS325320 PESTICIDE & OTHER AGRICULTURAL CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325180 OTHER BASIC INORGANIC CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS339940 OFFICE SUPPLIES (EXCEPT PAPER) MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS337920 BLIND & SHADE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS326199 ALL OTHER PLASTICS PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3951 PENS, MECHANICAL PENCILS, & PARTS (56%); SIC3089 PLASTICS PRODUCTS, NEC (56%); SIC2591 DRAPERY HARDWARE & WINDOW BLINDS & SHADES (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GREECE (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



861 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 612 words

HEADLINE: A Week Abroad, With Pitfalls and Payoffs

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
So why spend the coming week in England, Israel and Poland, as Mitt Romney is doing?
Overseas trips by candidates have almost become an expected part of the ''I can be president'' process. President Obama and his 2008 rival, Senator John McCain of Arizona, each ventured across the Atlantic before their November face-off.
But there are risks as well as potential rewards from a trip abroad. Here are some of each: 
Rewards
Campaigning against a sitting president is often visually lopsided, with the incumbent drawing attention by jetting around the world in Air Force One while the challenger is at a doughnut shop in a small Ohio town.
Mr. Romney's trip allows voters to see him on a much larger stage, interacting with world leaders. It is a chance for Americans to imagine what it would be like to have him represent the United States to the world.
A former one-term governor, Mr. Romney can use the trip to highlight his foreign policy positions. That can be more difficult back home, where voters expect a focus on jobs and the economy. An overseas trip offers an excuse to talk about his vision for America's role in the world.
In particular, Mr. Romney will contrast that vision with Mr. Obama's. The decision to visit Israel, where the president has failed to significantly move the peace process along, is no accident. That stop will also allow Mr. Romney to highlight the anxiety surrounding the Arab Spring. And Poland provides an opportunity to talk about the American relationship with Russia, an issue on which Mr. Romney has been critical of Mr. Obama.
Mr. Romney's advisers are aware of the political dangers of criticizing a sitting president from abroad. But even without explicit attacks, Mr. Romney can make his points.
There is also one other benefit: money. Mr. Romney's stop in London will give him a chance to tap into the deep pockets of rich Americans living abroad, just as Mr. McCain and Mr. Obama did.
Risks
Mr. Romney will no doubt be pressed to provide more details about his foreign policy positions during the trip. That can be tricky for a candidate who has not spent his life thinking about national security issues. His earlier claim that Russia is the nation's ''No. 1 geopolitical foe'' drew scorn from foreign policy experts and even some Republicans.
The contrast with Mr. Obama is not entirely helpful. The raid to kill Osama bin Laden and the president's decisions to wind down the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq have been widely popular. Mr. Romney's overseas trip could draw attention to those successes.
Unlike Mr. Obama, who visited Afghanistan and Iraq as a candidate, Mr. Romney is avoiding both. But that may not insulate him entirely from the need to address how his views differ from the president's on troop withdrawals.
Shifting the conversation to foreign policy also violates one of Mr. Romney's own campaign imperatives -- to focus on the domestic economy. By traveling abroad, he is essentially taking his eye off the ball for a week.
Mr. Romney will no doubt talk about economic issues -- trade policy and the global banking system. But Americans who have lost a job or are struggling with a mortgage payment will most likely hear little from Mr. Romney that feels relevant to their lives while he is abroad.
Mr. Obama, meanwhile, will have the field to himself. The president is making a West Coast swing across Nevada, California, Oregon and Washington this week. He will also stop in Louisiana before returning to the White House.
Both candidates will speak early in the week at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Reno, Nev. But once Mr. Romney leaves for Europe on Tuesday, Mr. Obama will be the only one out on the trail.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney in New Hampshire on Friday. He will set out Tuesday on a trip taking him to England, Israel and Poland. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHERYL SENTER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (62%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (91%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (92%); ENGLAND (90%); AFGHANISTAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



862 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Turkey to Europe: Who's Sick Now?

BYLINE: DAN BILEFSKY


HIGHLIGHT: Turkey is no longer the 'sick man of Europe,' prospering as much of the Continent flounders. But experts warn that those fortunes could quickly shift. 

 BODY:
With Europe roiled by economic crisis, Turks could be forgiven for engaging in a bit of Ottoman-style chest-thumping.
A sense of material-fueled contentment is evident in Istanbul's giant gleaming malls where clutches of hip young women in brightly colored headscarves clasp their Gucci purses while shopping with reckless abandon.
Corporate lawyers join six-month waiting lists to pay more than $150,000 for the latest BMW model. There is even a new lifestyle magazine for the burgeoning Islamic bourgeoisie that eschews thrusting cleavage in favor of chic designer veils and five-star resorts with separate his and her's beaches.
While much of the continent sputtered last year, Turkey's economy grew by 8.5 percent, according to official data. Even with the fallout from the troubles in the European Union, which accounts for the bulk of Turkey's exports, the Turkish government forecasts that growth will be 4 percent this year. (The International Monetary Fund predicts a more modest 2.3 percent).
During the decadence of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century, Turkey acquired the unwelcome nickname "The sick man of Europe." Now that distinction has been happily passed on to neighboring Greece, where high-spending Turkish tourists have been flocking to islands like Mykonos this summer, perhaps helping to give the battered Greek economy a bump.
Yet for all the signs of evident prosperity - and the loud declarations by Turkish leaders that Turkey is an economic model for the world - economists warn that the Turkish economy is at risk of overheating and then stalling.
Analysts say explosive growth in consumer credit has stoked a worrying expansion in the country's current account deficit, which is forecast by the government to be 8 percent of gross domestic product this year, an improvement over last year's 10 percent, but hardly reassuring.
The challenges of plugging financial holes of that magnitude were behind the country's past two economic ruptures, and some fear that Turkish arrogance threatens to blind Ankara to the perils ahead.
"The economy is slowing down, and if external conditions do not improve the country may not be able to rebound like it did after the 2009 crisis," said Sinan Ulgen, a visiting scholar at Carnegie Europe. "The government, however, seems to discount this scenario," he added, noting that overconfidence threatened to blind it to the effects of protracted crisis in Europe on Turkey.
While Turkey's economic luminaries gloat that Turkey - not Europe or even the United States - will win the 21st century, the I.M.F has in recent months been expressing a far less rosy outlook. That may explain why Deputy Prime Minister Ali Babacan, who is in charge of the economy, recently acknowledged that Ankara had blocked the domestic release of four to five I.M.F. reports, according to the newspaper Milliyet. It said the minister cited "certain subjective analyses" to justify the blackout.
Among its warnings, the I.M.F. has noted that Europe's spiraling crisis threatens to undermine Turkish exports while the availability of easy credit risks drying up as European banks, which own a sizable chunk of the Turkish banking sector, focus on challenges closer to home. The I.M.F. has forecast 2012 inflation of 10.6 percent and an unemployment rate of 10.3 percent.
On a trip to Turkey in May, the fund's straight-talking chief Christine Lagarde warned that while Turkey had had a remarkable period of growth over the last ten years, "vulnerabilities are arising as a result of the large current account deficit financed by short-term capital flows."
The I.M.F. is not alone in advising caution.
 In May, Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan lashed out at the ratings agency Standard & Poor's after it downgraded Turkey's credit rating from positive to stable, even as it improved its outlook for crisis-wracked Greece. "This is entirely an ideological approach. You cannot fool anybody, you cannot fool Tayyip Erdogan," the irate prime minister harrumphed.
Justifying its view, S&P said that less buoyant European demand for Turkish exports combined with the country's large external debt and a dependence on indirect taxes to plug budget gaps were undermining Turkey's creditworthiness.
Others point out that regional instability, including the festering conflict in neighboring Syria, could also have a detrimental effect on Turkey.
And while Turkey, buoyed by the Arab Spring, seeks to offset its dependence on Europe by investing in and expanding its presence in the Middle East, economists warn it could take decades before fragile, still underdeveloped economies like Egypt or Iraq yield meaningful economic dividends for Ankara.
Even as the notes of caution intensify, Turks show little sign of reining in their bullishness. 
''Those who called us 'sick' in the past are now 'sick' themselves,'' Zafer Caglayan, Turkey's minister of economy, said recently, with more than a hint of well-honed Turkish schadenfreude. ''May God grant them recovery.''

        
A Black Student Journalist Discovers in Turkey Her Color Is the Story
        
Released Journalist Denounces Turkish Repression
        
Time to Dial the Turkey-Syria Hotline
        
Kurds, Marginalized, Could Be Key to Syrian Revolt's Success
        
Much Ado About 'Mandatory' Turkish Health Insurance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TRENDS (74%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); CONSUMER CREDIT (73%); RESORTS (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (70%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (69%); BEACHES (69%); EXTERNAL DEBT (67%); EXTERNAL DEBT REDUCTION (67%); CONSUMER LENDING (63%); LAWYERS (56%); RELIGION (55%) turkey; Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Lagarde, Christine; Economic Conditions and Trends; European Sovereign Debt Crisis (2010- ); Forecasts; International Relations; International Trade and World Market; Middle East and North Africa Unrest (2010- ); Ottoman Empire; European Union; International Monetary Fund; Ankara (Turkey); Europe; Istanbul (Turkey); Middle East; Syria; Turkey; View From Europe

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (91%) European Union; International Monetary Fund

PERSON: RECEP TAYYIP ERDOGAN (73%); CHRISTINE LAGARDE (66%) Erdogan, Recep Tayyip; Lagarde, Christine

GEOGRAPHIC: ANKARA, TURKEY (94%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (94%) TURKEY (98%); EUROPE (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); GREECE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%) Ankara (Turkey); Europe; Istanbul (Turkey); Middle East; Syria; Turkey

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



863 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Choice)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: US

LENGTH: 323 words

HEADLINE: How Much Merit Aid Will Your College Offer? Take a Look

BYLINE: TANYA ABRAMS


HIGHLIGHT: An interactive list of more than 600 colleges and universities includes the tuition and fees of each institution, the percentage of freshmen who receive merit aid, and the average amount of money that they receive. 

 BODY:
For middle-income students who are deemed too rich to qualify for need-based financial aid, but in reality are too strapped to pay for college out-of-pocket, merit aid from prospective universities may be a big factor in your college decision. This type of financial assistance, often awarded in the form of grants and scholarships that needn't be repaid, is based on the student's academic potential instead of the family's household income.
Education Life, the higher education quarterly of The New York Times, has published an interactive list of more than 600 colleges and universities that award merit aid. The list includes the sticker price of the institution's tuition and fees, the percentage of freshmen who receive merit aid, and the average amount of money that they receive.
Here's a sampling of the data: 
In a related article, Christopher Drew reports that the percentage of students receiving merit aid grew rapidly from 1995 to 2008, so much so that "it rivaled the number of students receiving need-based aid."
The most exclusive colleges and universities - the Ivy League, Stanford, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and liberal arts colleges like Amherst - don't offer merit aid at all. Grants go only to those deemed to have "need."
"Need," of course, can be defined in various ways. Last year, families making $180,000 to $200,000 got an average $23,750 in need-based financial aid from Princeton. Harvard is almost as generous.
But for those not getting into Princeton or Harvard (and most of you are not), it's useful to review how much a college awards in average merit aid, and your chances of getting it. 

        
College Costs Weighing Down a Generation With Student Debt
        
Doubling of Stafford Interest Rates May Cost Only $6 More a Month
        
Many Parents Are Financially Supporting Adult Children After College, Study Finds
        
Part 5: Answers to Readers' Questions on Financial Aid
        
Part 4: Answers to Readers' Questions on Financial Aid

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (92%); TUITION FEES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (90%); STUDENT EXPENSES (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (78%); STUDENT LOANS (78%); PARENTS (74%); PERSONAL DEBT (73%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Paying Your Way; Colleges and Universities; Financial Aid (Education); Scholarships and Fellowships; Tuition; Attention Counselors; For Juniors; For Parents; For Seniors

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



864 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: A Desert Beyond Fear

BYLINE: JANA RICHMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Burdened by my angst and worry, we walked the slickrock and sand, with Bertrand Russell as our guide. 

 BODY:
On a cold, sunny day in early March, my husband, Steve, and I layered up and took ourselves out to our backyard: Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument. For a few days we had been spiraling downward through a series of miscommunications and tensions - the culmination of my rigorous dedication to fear, or what Bertrand Russell aptly coined "the tyranny of the habit of fear." A fresh storm had dropped 10 inches of snow with little moisture giving it an airy, crystallized texture that sprayed out in an arc with each footstep and made a shushing sound, as if it were speaking directly to me. 
Moving into the elegant world of white-draped red rock is usually enough to strip our minds of the qualms that harass us, but on this particular day, Steve and I both stomped into the desert bearing a commitment to hang onto the somber roles we had adopted. Solemnity is difficult, however, when one is tumbling down hills of snow-covered, deep sand and slipping off steep angles of slickrock on one's backside. Still, it took a good half-mile before we were convinced of our absurdity.
Such is the nature of the desert. If you persist in your gravity, the desert will take full advantage - it will have you falling over yourself as you trudge along carrying your blame and angst and fear; it will mock you until you literally and figuratively lighten up and conform to the place. The place will never conform to you. We knew that; that's why we went. That's why we always go to the desert when we're stuck in a cycle of self-induced wretchedness.
"Fear," Russell writes, "makes man unwise in the three great departments of human conduct: his dealings with nature, his dealings with other men, and his dealings with himself."
I can attest to the truth of Russell's words. I've spent many lifetime hours processing fear, and I've brought fear's oppression into my marriage. Because fear is the natural state of my mind, I often don't realize I'm spewing it into the atmosphere with my words and actions. The incident that drove us into the desert on that particular day was, in my mind, a simple expression of concern, a few "what will happen ifs"; in Steve's mind, a paranoid rant. Upon reflection, I have to agree with his version.
A few months prior, Steve and I had decided upon a change in our lives: certainty in the form of a bi-weekly paycheck was traded for joy in the form writing time. It wasn't a rash decision; it was five years in the making. Yet, from the moment the last check was cashed, my fear began roiling, slowly at first, but soon popping and splashing out of its shallow container. My voiced concerns regarding homelessness and insolvency went considerably beyond probable, falling to the far side of remotely possible. In my world, that's enough for worry, discussion, obsession, more discussion, and several nights of insomnia.
We had parked the truck at the "head of the rocks," an understated description of a spot that allows a 360-degree view of red and white slickrock cut with deep gulches and painted with the sweeping wear of wind and water. The Grand Staircase Escalante National Monument is 1.9 million acres of land, much of it devoid of human intrusion on any given day. Before we moved to the small town of Escalante on the Monument's border, we came here from our city home five hours away - alone or together - whenever life threatened to shut us down.
From the head of the rocks, we followed the old cream cellar road, a wagon trail of switchbacks carved into stone in the early 1900s. We could see our destination about two miles out - a smooth, jutting wall with a level run of sand at its base that would allow us to sit with our faces to the sun and our backs against the wall - a fitting spot.
Steve walked behind me in silence, but I knew his thoughts. My fear perplexes and disparages him. His acts of heroism should dispel my anxiety, but it persists beyond the reach of his love. Yet, his love, too, persists.
Knowing I'll pick up and read anything placed in my path, Steve had left on the butcher block where I eat breakfast Russell's timeless collection of essays, "New Hopes for a Changing World," published in 1951, five years before I was born. I skimmed the table of contents until I reached three essays entitled, "Fear," "Fortitude," and "Life Without Fear," in which Russell writes about the pervasive and destructive nature of fear. One of the significant fears Russell writes about - a fear close to his own heart - is the fear of being unlovable, which, he writes, is self-fulfilling unless one gets out from under fear's dominion. I've been testing Russell's theory for the past eight years.
I've heard it said that all fear stems from the knowledge of our own mortality, and indeed, many of our social systems thrive by exploiting our fear of death and our desire to thwart it. But fear of death has never been my problem. To me, life, not death, holds the promise of misery. When life is lived as a problem to be solved, death offers the ultimate resolution, the release of all fears, the moment of pure peace.
By the time we had dropped from the head of the rocks halfway down to the scooped-out basin below, I could feel Steve letting go. His stride had become rhythmic, his foot placement sure. Without surprise, I noticed the same of myself. Steve's 6'4" lanky frame flows effortlessly through the desert. He blends with his environment like a native species - skin the color of sandstone, eyes the color of juniper berries. If I turned to look at him, I would see a serene expression on his face, his hands held in front of his chest, the fingertips gently touching-his walking contemplation pose.
When we reached our destination, Steve pulled a space blanket out of his pack and spread it for us to sit on. The warm rock allowed us to discard several layers of clothing before resting our backs on the wall and tipping our faces upward. Steve placed a hand on my leg. In his autobiography, Russell wrote, "In general, I find that things that have happened to me out-of-doors have made a deeper impression than things that have happened indoors." A curious statement upon first read, but my desert rambles have confirmed that nothing illuminates irrational fear more brilliantly than sun bouncing off slickrock.
"My fear is a bit much," I said.
"Yes," Steve said.
"The tyranny of the habit of fear," I said, quoting Russell.
"Yes."
Sometimes in the mornings I wake up feeling as if my world is about to fly apart, and it takes a few minutes to pull myself back into my bed, my bedroom, my house - the one where my kind husband moves around the kitchen making coffee, the one where a sweet, asthmatic cat has taken up the still-warm, vacated space on the bed next to me.
I once had a therapist tell me that I likely learned my fear at a pre-verbal stage of life, which means, as I understand it, it got hard-wired in my brain. She called it Armageddon Syndrome. It is the deep nature of my fear that makes it an all-or-nothing proposition for me, something that needs to be treated like an addiction. Dabbling in it, however briefly, can bring on a full-scale blackout. The only option is letting go entirely - one moment at a time.
I've had throughout my life what I refer to as moments of bravado - a sudden urge to push myself beyond my fear in some big way. Those are the moments responsible for the significant changes in my life. They took me from my hometown of Tooele, Utah, to a Wall Street job in New York City, from finance to writing, and from New York City back to the West where I belong. Ultimately, my moments of bravado took me to the deserts of the Escalante, a place so stunning in its grandeur it defies fear. If ever there were a place on earth that allows one to enter and dwell at peace, this would be it.
From the outside looking in, my moments of bravado may appear as a connected life - a life lived with courage and intent. Yet each moment was taken in sheer terror. In "The Courage to Create" Rollo May writes that Kierkegard, Nietzsche, Camus and Sartre all defined courage not as the absence of despair but as the ability to act in spite of it. If I go by that definition, I can technically call myself courageous.
Treating my fear as an addiction that doesn't allow wavering often means placing myself in what others see as risky situations: How wise is it, for instance, for a woman whose deepest fear is financial destitution to quit her job (the one with a good salary and health insurance!) during the worst economy on recent record?
The answer lies in Russell's words: "Until you have admitted your own fears to yourself, and have guarded yourself by a difficult effort of will against their myth-making power, you cannot hope to think truly about many matters of great importance . . ."
Fear is noisy, and it takes up a lot of space. Very little else - including matters of great importance - can break through. But at times, I can sit long enough to quiet the din of fear. When I do, in the part of my gut that is often churning with anxiety, I know that those"risky" decisions are the only things that keep my world from flying apart.
When I wake up in the swirl of Armageddon, I have two choices: the first is to lie in bed convincing myself that the media headlines loom near - I will soon lose my house, my husband, and what little money I have. I can probably keep the cat, but he and I will be sharing a food bowl. The other choice is the courageous choice: get out of bed, open the blinds, and look to the east where the Escalante River gorge cuts through the sunlit ridge.

        
Cancer on the Brain
        
Finding Clues in the Fearful Brain
        
Things to Fear and Loathe
        
Searching the Brain for the Roots of Fear
        
Jokers Wild

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATIONAL PARKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WEATHER (78%) Addiction; Anxiety; bertrand russell; fear; nature; Russell, Bertrand; Addiction (Psychology); Anxiety and Stress; Fear (Emotion); Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (Utah)

PERSON: Russell, Bertrand

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument (Utah)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



865 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 466 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
101 Cookbooks: Why food is endlessly interesting: Someone (in this case, Heidi Swanson) is always coming up with something entirely new, like cookies made with whole vanilla beans. -- Julia Moskin 
Crain's New York Business: Not just for breakfast anymore: Fancy-schmancy doughnuts are supplanting cupcakes as a snack craze, in part because they're cheaper to make (if not always to buy). -- Patrick Farrell
: Talia Baiocchi appraises the excellent wine list at Reynards, a new restaurant in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. -- Eric Asimov
NPR: Have thickening agents encroached upon the utopia of the growing Greek yogurt craze? Hamdi Ulukaya, founder of the seven-year-old phenomenon Chobani, says his competitors are using thickeners that include "milk protein concentrates" to produce cheap, faux creaminess. True Greek yogurt must be strained to remove enough liquid to give it the proper thickness, Mr. Ulukaya says. -- Glenn Collins 
Westchester Magazine: Julia Sexton compiles a master list of her favorite eating and drinking experiences in the suburban county that gave us the stories of John Cheever ...
The Journal News: ... And (in an echo of a recent controversy involving the restaurateurs Mario Batali and Joe Bastianich) a former server is accusing a Westchester County burger joint of underpaying its waitstaff. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Treehugger: Some forward-thinking cities have figured out an incentive for citizens to recycle: free vegetables, in return for recyclables. "Delicious Recycling" is in its 10th year in Brazil. -- Julia Moskin
Nation's Restaurant News: Is Chipotle's spiciness cooling? After seven consecutive quarters of double-digit same-store-sales increases, Chipotle Mexican Grill posted a disappointing 8 percent gain, and its stock fell 20 percent initially. The company blamed reduced consumer spending in a weak economy. Or is the chain beset by its own rapid expansion, and growing competition that could be maxing out the "quality" Mexican category? -- Glenn Collins 
The New York Times: "No jerks" - and other tips on leadership and management from the founder and chairman of Panera Bread. -- Jeff Gordinier
Gather Journal: A new, elegant, ethereal (but with recipes!) food quarterly has arrived. This issue's theme: Float. -- Julia Moskin
National Geographic: There's a growing craze in China for yartsa gunbu, a strange fungus that's seen as having medicinal properties; that means it's boom time for the Tibetans who methodically harvest it. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Wall Street Journal: Are mosquito pesticides to blame for the sweeping die-off of lobsters in Long Island Sound? (Subscription required.) - Patrick Farrell
The Writer's Almanac: The poet Nikki Giovanni's paean to the pleasures of a Tennessee summer, hanging out and chowing down. -- Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); MILK (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); WRITERS (89%); RESTAURANTS (78%); GELLING THICKENING & STABILIZING AGENTS (78%); FAST FOOD (78%); SAME STORE SALES (75%); RETAIL SALES (75%); COUNTIES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); PESTICIDES (60%); SUBURBS (52%)

COMPANY: PANERA BREAD CO (63%); CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (53%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

TICKER: PNRA (NASDAQ) (63%); CMG (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (63%); NAICS445291 BAKED GOODS STORES (63%); NAICS311811 RETAIL BAKERIES (63%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (55%) UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (79%); TIBET (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



866 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: More Diversity in the Suburbs

BYLINE: REBECCA BERG


HIGHLIGHT: The number of racially diverse suburbs increased by 37 percent between 2000 and 2010, a study finds, but its authors warn that there remain factors that can tip such areas back into segregation. 

 BODY:
America's suburbs are becoming more diverse, but tenuously so, a study has found.
The study, conducted by Myron Orfield and Thomas Luce at the Institute on Metropolitan Opportunity at the University of Minnesota Law School and released Friday, determined that the number of racially diverse suburbs increased by 37 percent between 2000 and 2010, and diverse suburbs are growing more quickly than majority-white suburbs.
The findings, which draw on data from the nation's 50 largest metropolitan areas, also underscore shifting demographic trends, which indicate that minority groups will be in the majority in only a few decades.
"People that grow up in diverse communities are comfortable living and working in the multiracial society we're going to become," Mr. Orfield said.
Diverse communities strike a fragile balance that can easily be lost over time, the study found. Once the communities fell back into segregation, they tended to remain that way.
"The frightening thing is they don't stay stable and we don't have a plan to keep them stable," Mr. Orfield said. "We haven't finished with the issues of discrimination in the housing market that make these things unstable." 
Those issues, although technically outlawed in large part by the Fair Housing Act, which was passed in 1968 and amended substantially in 1988, persist because of mortgage lending discrimination, a lack of affordable houses and rentals, the manner in which school districts draw their boundaries, and racial steering, wherein real estate agents show homes with a neighborhood's demographics in mind.
"What this report reinforces is the need to thinking about a new housing policy for the country," said Bruce Katz, the director of the Metropolitan Policy Project at the Brookings Institution. He added, "The question is whether we're doing it in a smart or stupid way. Some places have been doing it smartly and the end result is opportunity."
Among those places that the study found to be acting smartly was the Oak Park neighborhood of Chicago, where the community has made a concerted effort to maintain racial diversity, in part through free assistance for those seeking housing.
In other diverse suburbs, too, such as Montgomery County in Maryland or the Louisville, Ky., area, desegregation was often a function of effort. Cities in the North and the Midwest, Mr. Orfield said, showed the least progress.
It's a nontrivial issue, because living in a suburb can often afford minority groups access to better schools and resources, while fostering a sense of community that encourages civic engagement and a host of other benefits.
"More communities need to work on remaining stable," Mr. Orfield said. "It's not just something that happens; it's something that communities need to consciously attempt to do."

        
Saluting Teamwork
        
How Elite Colleges Still Aren't Diverse
        
If the Tea Party Went Downtown
        
Still Few Women at the Top in Most Big U.S. Companies
        
Supporting Older Americans

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); DISCRIMINATION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); TRENDS (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); CITIES (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (72%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (66%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (64%) diversity; integration; Population; Suburbs; Orfield, Myron; Segregation; University of Minnesota; Luce, Thomas

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA (93%) University of Minnesota

PERSON: Orfield, Myron

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



867 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Drama League Plans a Home for Itself

BYLINE: LARRY ROHTER


HIGHLIGHT: The Drama League Theater Center is to be located at 32 Avenue of the Americas, on the lobby level of the former AT&#038;T building, and is scheduled to open toward the end of the year. 

 BODY:
The Drama League, a fixture on and around Broadway for nearly a century, is moving to a home of its own in TriBeCa, the group announced on Monday. The new Drama League Theater Center will be located at 32 Avenue of the Americas, on the lobby level of the former AT&T building, and is scheduled to open toward the end of this year.
Gabriel Shanks, the executive director of the Drama League, described the move as the primary element in a "wholesale transformation" of the group, founded in 1916. The new space will allow the league to beef up existing programs, like its long-established program for young directors, as well as expand into new undertakings.
"Our current programing is going to grow five or six fold because we have the space, the ability, to do so," Mr. Shanks said. As examples of activities likely to benefit from the move, he mentioned artist residencies, play readings, workshops, open rehearsals and all sorts of classes, seminars and conferences. "In 2013, we're going to be launching an educational curriculum, something we've never really been able to do before," he said.

Plans call for the Drama League Theater Center to include a laboratory and development space in which theater artists will be able to create and polish work for presentation elsewhere. The TriBeCa location, in the same building where the Tribeca Film Festival and the choreographer and composer Meredith Monk have offices, will also encourage interaction with theater companies and other arts groups in that neighborhood, Mr. Shanks said.
The group began seriously considering a move to a home of its own about a year and a half ago, Mr. Shanks said, and had even before then been "putting away cash for a rainy day" in anticipation of such an opportunity. When a member of the league's board, Samantha Rudin, a member of a family long prominent in New York City real estate, heard that space in a landmark building had become available, that pushed the discussion from the theoretical to a concrete analysis of the economics of a move, which concluded that the increased cost would be slight and manageable.
"Because we don't have space of our own and work nomadically, we have been spending a significant amount of money on other people's spaces," he said. 
"When we realized we could have our own home for the same amount, and be 24 hours a day dedicated to our mission, it ended up making sense pretty fast for us. We'll always have a relationship to Broadway, but people need our help in other parts of New York now," he added. "In one fell swoop, this allows us to work with everybody, so it's more an expansion than a trade."

        
Performance Space 122 Announces New Season
        
Women's Project Has New Plays for Its New Home
        
Fall Slate Is Set for 59E59 Theaters
        
New Music Inspired by Beckett Plays
        
New York Musical Theater Festival Report: 'How Deep Is the Ocean?'

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER (89%); THEATER COMPANIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); FILM (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); CURRICULA (67%) Theater; Drama League; New York City

ORGANIZATION: Drama League

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



868 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 168 words

HEADLINE: Free Money

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Where's my fiscal crisis? 

 BODY:
Take a look at the latest Treasury real yield curve data -- the interest rate the U.S. government pays on bonds that are indexed to inflation:
That's right: for every maturity of bonds under 20 years, investors are paying the feds to take their money -- and in the case of maturities of 10 years and under, paying a lot.
What's going on? Investor pessimism about prospects for the real economy, which makes the perceived safe haven of US debt attractive even at very low yields. And pretty obviously investors do consider US debt safe -- there is no hint here of worries about the level of debt and deficits.
Now, you might think that there would be a consensus that, even leaving Keynesian things aside, this is a really good time for the government to invest in infrastructure and stuff: money is free, the workers would otherwise be unemployed.
But no: the Very Serious People have decided that the big problem is that Washington is borrowing too much, and that addressing this problem is the key to ... something.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BONDS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); YIELD CURVE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



869 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: When Agendas Meet Science in the Gas Drilling Fight

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A researcher leading a study of fracking and water quality doesn't mention big financial ties to industry. 

 BODY:
[July 25, 8:30 p.m. | Updated | StateImpact Texas has published an important piece updating the conflict of interest case at the University of Texas described below. Charles Groat, in an e-mail exchange with the reporter, does not acknowledge the appearance of conflict in his highly compensated relationship with a drilling company.]
It's time to dig in a bit on how transparency and peer review matter in considering the merits of the science deployed by both the "ban" and "bonanza" factions in the war over expanding hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, as a means of harvesting America's natural gas bounty.
I'll be posting Wednesday* on peer review, or the lack thereof, in research related to environmental and health impacts of gas drilling. The piece will focus on a new and as-yet-unpublished (but much publicized) study of fetal risks related to gas drilling by Elaine L. Hill, a doctoral candidate in Cornell University's department of applied economics and management.
But first, let's look at the importance of transparency when conveying out findings on contentious and consequential issues like the environmental impacts of America's gas rush. 
The University of Texas Energy Institute used a news conference at the annual meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science last February to roll out what it called an authoritative report separating the "real and perceived consequences of shale gas development."
The news release from the science association at the time included a quote from the lead author of the report, Charles G. "Chip" Groat, that was clearly aimed at signaling neutrality and academic integrity: 
"The research project discussed at the symposium was not supported by energy industry companies, Groat added. Instead, the money came from the university's own funds."
At the time, I described the package of related background material from the university as "invaluable" in a passing mention in a post. I still think much of the material provides valuable background and analysis on environmental impacts of drilling. 
But what Groat and the university never mentioned in the report, news releases or other output related to the gas-drillling analysis was a suite of potential conflicts of interest deriving from Groat's gas-industry affiliations, income and investments.
By not being open from the start, they left it up to journalists and watchdogs to reveal. (A university official has said the school was unaware of Groat's ties, see below. Groat has not responded to e-mails seeking comment.)
Particularly notable is a detailed Bloomberg article today by Jim Efstathiou, Jr., on Groat's finances and the University of Texas gas study and other examples of academic research with unstated industry connections.
The Public Accountability Initiative* has raised important questions about Groat's financial and industry background in "Contaminated Inquiry- How a University of Texas Fracking Study Led by a Gas Industry Insider Spun the Facts and Misled the Public." Here's an excerpt from this group's report: 
Groat serves as a director of an oil and gas company engaged in fracking, Plains Exploration and Production (PXP), and also has a significant financial stake in the company. The directorship and financial stake are not disclosed anywhere in the UT Energy Institute study, on the Institute's website, or in the various presentations Groat gave on the study.
Groat joined the board of Pogo Producing, a Houston-based oil and gas driller, in November 2005, just five months after resigning as director of the U.S. Geological Survey (amidst a scandal and Congressional investigation, described below).34 When Pogo was acquired in 2007 by Plains Exploration & Production (PXP), Groat became a director there, and has remained on the PXP board since.
Since 2007, Groat has received over $1.5 million in cash and stock compensation from PXP (an average of $380,000 per year). As a result, the value of Groat's current stake in the company is $1.62 million (based on PXP's closing stock price on July 20, 2012, $40.34). This level of compensation dwarfs the $173,000 salary Groat earns from the University of Texas as of 2012.
In any other arena, like medical research, such disclosures are a standard element of scholarship. Read the statement on conflicts of interest by the International Committee of Medical Journal Editors to get the idea. As many watchdogs in medical science will readily note, that system is hardly perfect, but being up front about finances and backers sure is a helpful way to retain credibility -- whether you're a journal editor or a researcher.
Big drug companies have contributed greatly to scientific understanding, but knowing which studies or scientists they back is a vital starting point.
As I noted on Twitter this morning, the lack of proactive transparency by the university and Groat is a serious issue. 
Until there is clarity here, no matter how sound the report's conclusions (and many are, including its criticisms of industry resistance to revealing ingredients in fracking fluid), the school and Groat have left themselves open to legitimate criticism, including those leveled in a blog post calling this practice "Frackademia."
In a phone conversation this evening, Raymond L. Orbach, the director of the University of Texas Energy Institute, reiterated what he told Efstathiou in the Bloomberg story, saying he was unaware of Groat's financial involvement with the gas industry until now. 
He added: "We didn't know, and we should have. It would have been very sensible to put an asterisk to indicate Chip's board membership."
Orbach insisted he sees no signs that the report was torqued in any way as a result. "There's zero evidence of any influence whatsoever," he told me. "Had there been any influence people would have pushed back strongly."
Nonetheless, he agreed that transparency is vital, and was not provided in this report. "We are putting together a second edition and we're putting together a reference to this," he said. 
Of course, this is too little, too late. 
Stay tuned for more if I hear from Groat, and for a discussion of the vital need for peer review of health studies in gas country if credibility is the goal.
[July 25, 8:30 p.m. | Updated | .]
[July 24, 8:13 a.m. | Updated | * ]

        
Exploring America's, and the World's, Energy Choices
        
On Shale Gas, Warming and Whiplash
        
An M.I.T. Plan for Natural Gas With Planet in Mind
        
Study Links Flammable Gas in Water and Nearby Drilling
        
Gas Leaks on the Path to a Post-Fossil Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (93%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SCIENCE POLICY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ETHICS (78%); WRITERS (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (74%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (71%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%) conflict of interest; corruption; energy; Ethics; fracking; Natural Gas; Texas; Academic and Scientific Journals; Conflicts of Interest; Hydraulic Fracturing; Water Pollution; American Assn for the Advancement of Science; University of Texas; activism; environmental policy; industry

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (94%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (82%); CORNELL UNIVERSITY (55%) American Assn for the Advancement of Science; University of Texas

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



870 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: 'The Dark Knight Rises' Takes in $88 Million Overseas

BYLINE: BROOKS BARNES


HIGHLIGHT: The film also had $160 million in North American box office sales over the weekend, showing that the deadly shooting last Friday at a theater in Colorado had dampened the enthusiasm of moviegoers only slightly. 

 BODY:
Warner Brothers said on Monday that final box office data for the opening weekend of "The Dark Knight Rises" showed that the movie took in $161 million in North America, on par with unofficial estimates on Sunday.
That total ranks as one of the best on record - particularly for a movie that did not benefit from premium-priced 3-D shows - but falls about 15 percent below prerelease expectations, a clear indication that Friday's mass shooting at a screening of the film in Colorado may have frightened away potential moviegoers.
Warner said "The Dark Knight Rises" took in an additional $88 million in 17 international markets. The Hollywood Reporter characterized that total as "strong," but there were signs that the shootings also hurt the movie abroad. For instance, "Rises" took in $22.5 million in Britain, a 6 percent decline from first-weekend sales for "The Dark Knight" in 2008, after adjusting for inflation.
"The Dark Knight Rises" will roll out in 40 additional overseas markets on Friday. The film cost an estimated $400 million to make and market, meaning that ticket sales will need to total $800 million or so for Warner to break even, after splitting box office revenue with theater owners.

        
Hollywood Struggles for Proper Response to Shooting
        
In Aurora, a Sadly Familiar Template Kicks In for the News Media
        
Village Roadshow, Supplier of Movies to Warner Brothers, Gets New Financing
        
Making High-Definition Movies Easier to Move
        
'Last Samurai' Legal Dispute Is a Long-Running Hollywood Tale

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (92%); FILM (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%) "The Dark Knight Rises''; Warner Brothers; Movies; Colorado; Great Britain; North America; The Dark Knight (Movie)

ORGANIZATION: Warner Brothers

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (94%) NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%) Colorado; Great Britain; North America

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



871 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: A Plan for a Greener Business

BYLINE: TOM SZAKY


HIGHLIGHT: Once you have taken the easy steps, there are harder questions. Should your business invest in environmental practices that will cost money instead of saving it? Whatever you do, be sure to avoid "eco-ironies." 

 BODY:
Every day, the pressures mount to make a business as green as possible - even if the business isn't intrinsically green, like TerraCycle, Method or Earth911. At the same time, lots of small businesses are just trying to make it through the week, which is why many people do not feel they have the luxury of devoting time and energy to reviewing their operations and turning them green. For their businesses the question becomes, how can you go green in a smart way that gives you the best bang for your buck?
Many companies equate sustainable practices with economic efficiencies. For example, if you cut your product's packaging weight by, say, 30 percent, you will have made a more environmentally friendly package and most likely have saved money in the process. Not surprisingly, these kinds of "eco-efficiencies" are big in the corporate world because they are driven by financial efficiencies that translate into quantifiable savings. 
Obviously, every business should put in place every eco-efficiency it can. Most often, these efficiencies can be found in the form of reductions in the use of resources. But they may also come in less traditional ways, such as from installing solar panels (which we just did at our headquarters in Trenton), encouraging employees to car-pool and installing LED light bulbs.
Once you have taken the easy steps, there are harder questions. Should your business invest in environmental practices that will cost money instead of saving it? Should a business offset its carbon emissions? Sponsor a TerraCycle brigade for its nonrecyclable waste? Participate in1% for the Planet (you give 1 percent of your profits to various charitable causes)? There are lots of options. The challenge is that all of these programs have a cost. So the next question is: what is the value for your brand from a marketing perspective? For some businesses, a program can provide an immediate sales lift. For others, it can help with a long-term strategy of building brand loyalty.
Let's take an example. Suppose you have a coffee shop. What would bring greater marketing benefit to you? Eliminating waste (from coffee cups and coffee grounds), giving a percentage of your profit to a social cause or offsetting all of the carbon your shop produces? I would argue - and, yes, this is somewhat self-serving - that consumers can relate more to something concrete, like tackling the waste produced from a cup of coffee, than doing something less tangible, like offsetting a pound of carbon emissions.
Some businesses fail to take action because they do not want to call attention to their own waste problems. I would encourage these businesses to think differently. Consumers are not dumb, and they will not be surprised. More important, they will give you credit for facing the problems in your business head on.
Sometimes, the benefits of greening your business can include a marketing boost. If your coffee shop decides to compost coffee grounds and recycle cups, you should call attention to that with signs and other point-of-purchase material. Greening your shop can also give your business more of a premium feel, and it can help with branding. It may help set you apart from competitors.
In the end, any decision to go green should be evaluated the way you would a choice between newspaper and TV advertising. You should ask whether the money spent will generate more sales and more customers than a traditional form of marketing.
And don't assume that if your business is standard issue - an office with cubicles - that means there is nothing you can do. There is always something. You can put bricks in your toilets to use less water. You can print double-sided or avoid printing altogether. You can put timers on lights to ensure that rooms without people in them are not lighted. You can buy reusable coffee mugs. You can replace traditional light bulbs with efficient ones. All of these measures will save money and make you greener.
If you've tried those, you might move on to using recycled paper, or even something exotic like paper made from elephant waste (which packs a bit of humor). Or give a financial incentive to your clients to get their billings electronically rather than in the mail. Or perhaps use an ink stamp as a business card instead of an actual business card.
If you do decide to carry out these kinds of green measures, there are two crucial mistakes to avoid. First, don't do things that are trivial if you don't have larger projects behind them. For example, reducing the size of your business cards to cut down on paper use is a joke if you don't deploy more substantial green practices as well.
Second, when you go green, you want to eliminate any glaring infractions, such as not recycling in your office, overusing the HVAC, driving a Hummer, using cartridge coffee without a recycling program and so on. Avoiding these kinds of "eco-ironies" is crucial to making people feel that you are taking the practice seriously. At TerraCycle, even though our business is recycling, we had serious trouble getting our staff to recycle properly at the office. This was such a glaring eco-irony that we spent considerable time fixing the problem, and now we can boast that we have a fantastic office program.

        
Cutting a Deal With Big Tobacco
        
The Myth of Biodegradability
        
How Do You Engage Your Customers?
        
Introducing Sustainable Profits: Turning Waste Into Profit
        
Is Your Business Trying to Go Green?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREEN MARKET (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (74%); BRANDING (74%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); CHARITIES (70%); CARBON OFFSETS (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); BRAND EQUITY (67%) going green; recycle; sustainability; Advertising and Marketing; Recycling of Waste Materials; Small Business; TerraCycle; Trenton (NJ); Sustainable Profits

ORGANIZATION: TerraCycle

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%) Trenton (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2012



872 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 463 words

HEADLINE: Venture Capital Firm Makes Long-Term Bet on Brazil

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: While the Brazilian economy is cooling, Redpoint e.Ventures has raised a $130 million fund to invest in early-stage Internet start-ups in Brazil. 

 BODY:
SO PAULO, Brazil - At a time when the Brazilian economy is cooling, at least one Silicon Valley firm is doubling down.
Redpoint e.Ventures announced Monday that it had raised $130 million to invest in early-stage Internet start-ups in Brazil, South America's largest economy.
The firm, less than a year old, is a joint effort between Redpoint Ventures of Menlo Park, Calif., and BV Capital of San Francisco, which has just renamed itself e.Ventures. Each firm had invested in Brazilian Internet companies separately, including the online travel site Viajanet and Grupo Xango, a tech holding company co-founded by a former Microsoft executive.
Jeff Brody, Redpoint's founding partner, acknowledged Brazil's challenges, including slower growth and sagging industrial production. On Friday, Brazil's government lowered its 2012 gross domestic product forecast to 3 percent growth, from 4.5 percent.
"None of that is good news for us," Mr. Brody said. "Europe and China slowing down will definitely impact Brazil."
But he said that the firm was more focused on the long term, the next decade, and that recent economic concerns "were not mentioned at all" by investors in the new fund.
In fact, the firms raised more than their original $100 million target, said Mathias Schilling, a founder of e.ventures. Internet use is still growing, and so is the mobile Web, and Brazilians still face a large void in early-stage venture capital, presenting a major opportunity.
A few pioneering local firms have already tapped into the market, including Monashees Capital of So Paulo. In addition, Kaszek Ventures of Argentina holds just under $100 million, with two-thirds of its investments in Brazil.
Still, the Redpoint joint venture is the first such fund in Brazil originating from Silicon Valley, said Allen Taylor, director of global networks for Endeavor, an American nonprofit group that promotes entrepreneurship in emerging markets.
Redpoint "has really taken a leadership position from the beginning" in helping encourage Brazil's start-up culture and seeking it out as a market, Mr. Taylor said.
The founding partners of Redpoint e.Ventures, based here in So Paulo, Anderson Thees and Yann de Vries, say they will typically make initial investments from a few hundred thousand dollars to $5 million.
For many, the benefits go beyond the cash.
Camila Souza introduced the fashion shopping site Sophie & Juliete with her partner, Ronald Beigl, last week. It is backed by Redpoint e.Ventures and IG Expansion.
Thanks to the presence of the new fund, and what she hopes will be other funds to follow, she said "entrepreneurship will become a lot more professional now" and less dependent on wealthy families.
"It will influence people who before did not really believe it was possible," she said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: STARTUPS (92%); INTERNET & WWW (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); FINANCING ROUNDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (69%); JOINT VENTURES (58%) BV Capital; Redpoint eVentures; Redpoint Ventures; Brazil; Technology; Venture Capital

COMPANY: REDPOINT VENTURES (83%); MICROSOFT CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BV Capital; Redpoint eVentures; Redpoint Ventures

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



873 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Campaign Stops)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1811 words

HEADLINE: The Politics of Anything Goes

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: In 2004, President Obama famously denounced "spin masters and negative ad peddlers." Facing a tough re-election bid, has he adopted the strategy he once scorned? 

 BODY:
Barack Obama first captured the national spotlight with a speech at the 2004 Democratic Convention in Boston in which he called for an end to the politics of division. The audience roared back its applause at the end of almost every line:
Now even as we speak, there are those who are preparing to divide us, the spin masters and negative ad peddlers who embrace the politics of anything goes. Well, I say to them tonight, there's not a liberal America and a conservative America; there's the United States of America. There's not a black America and white America and Latino America and Asian America; there's the United States of America.
Americans, Obama declared, are 
one people, all of us pledging allegiance to the stars and stripes, all of us defending the United States of America. In the end, that's what this election is about. Do we participate in a politics of cynicism, or do we participate in a politics of hope?
Now, faced with a tough re-election fight, President Obama has, in fundamental respects, adopted the strategy he denounced eight years ago.
He is running a two-track campaign. One track of his re-election drive seeks to boost turnout among core liberal groups; the other aims to suppress turnout and minimize his margin of defeat in the most hostile segment of the electorate, whites without college degrees.
This approach assumes a highly polarized electorate and tries to make the best of it.
On his campaign web site, Obama singles out 16 specific target constituencies under "groups." Some are listed because it would be politically damaging to fail to include them: People of Faith; Veterans and Military Families; Rural Americans; Seniors; and Small Business Owners.
Others make up the heart of the liberal-left coalition: African Americans, Environmentalists, Latinos, Young Americans, LGBT Americans, Native Americans, Asian-Americans and Pacific Islanders, Educators, Jewish Americans, Nurses and Women.
Obama is actively courting all of these constituencies: endingthe deportation of many young workers who are in the United States illegally; endorsing same-sex marriage; loosening work requirements for welfare recipients; pressing Congress to keep student loan rates low; rejecting the proposal to build the northern portion of the 1,700 mile Keystone pipeline from Canada to Texas; and promoting health-care reform that requires insurance plans to fully cover birth control without co-pays or deductibles.
Interestingly, the Obama campaign is not spending the lion's share of its money on these groups. Instead, Obama's television ads, at $65.6 million the biggest cost of his re-election bid so far, are overwhelmingly aimed at discrediting Mitt Romney.
The negative ads run by the Obama campaign and its allied "super PAC," Priorities USA - ads demonizing Romney - target not only whites without college degrees, but in particular white men without degrees, a constituency Obama has no hope of winning.
The two anti-Romney commercials that appear to have resonated most powerfully, according to measures of YouTube views, are explicitly aimed at these voters.
The Priorities USA ad titled "Stage" - with over 1.4 million views - is narrated by Mike Earnest, a middle-aged white working-class man. He describes building a stage at a paper plant in Marion, Ind., that was in operation 24 hours a day. Shortly afterward, workers from all three shifts were called in. "A group of people walked out on that stage and told us that the plant is now closed and all of you are fired," Earnest says. "Mitt Romney made over $100 million by shutting down our plant and devastated our lives. Turns out when we build that stage it was like building our own coffin, and it just makes me sick."
An Obama ad, "Firms" with over 1.9 million views, shows Romney singing "America the Beautiful" at The Villages, a Florida retirement community. The screen shifts from Romney to images of shuttered factories and empty office rooms, overlaid with a series of headlines, "In Business, Mitt Romney's Firms Shipped Jobs to Mexico and China," "He Had Millions in a Swiss Bank Account," "Tax Havens Like Bermuda and the Cayman Islands."
Obama's current level of support from white men without college degrees is so low that "if sustained through Election Day," it "would represent a modern nadir for Democrats," Ron Brownstein pointed out earlier this month in the National Journal. Brownstein cited a Quinnipiac poll showing Romney beating Obama 56-29 and a Washington Post/ABC survey putting the contest at 65 for Romney, 28 for Obama among these voters.
A central goal of the anti-Romney commercials is to cross-pressure these whites. Persuading more than 28 percent of them to vote for Obama is a tough sell, but the Obama campaign can try to make the alternative, voting for Romney, equally unacceptable. Conflicted voters, especially those holding negative views of both candidates, are likely to skip voting altogether. 
In 2004, for example, in a tactic designed to decrease black turnout, the Bush campaign sent deeply religious black voters mail and email noting Democratic support for same-sex civil unions, with the goal of creating ambivalence toward Senator John F. Kerry. Over the past two years, Republican-controlled state legislatures have been conducting an aggressive vote-suppression strategy of their own through the passage of voter identification laws and laws imposing harsh restrictions on voter registration drives.
When a top Pennsylvania Republican remarked last month that the state's new voter ID law would help Mitt Romney win Pennsylvania in November, which no Republican presidential candidate has done since 1988, he reignited a debate over whether the law is intended to curb fraud, as Republicans say, or to depress Democratic turnout, as critics charge.
Mike Turzai, the House majority leader in Pennsylvania, made the remark when he spoke to a meeting of the Republican State Committee. He ticked off a number of recent conservative achievements by the Republican-led legislature, including, as Turzai put it, "Voter ID, which is going to allow Governor Romney to win the state of Pennsylvania, done." 
Arthur Lupia, a political scientist at the University of Michigan, has demonstrated that in 2008, even if Obama had failed to boost turnout among key Democratic groups, he would have won because of the failure of many 2004 George W. Bush supporters to vote for John McCain. "Bush voters' decisions not to vote or to support Obama were a sufficient condition for Obama's victory," Lupia wrote in "Did Bush Voters Cause Obama's Victory?" a paper published in PS, the journal of the American Political Science Association.
Romney and the Republican Party must achieve the highest possible turnout level among whites. Republicans, including Romney, have adopted anti-immigration stands that have extinguished the possibility of boosting margins among Hispanics. Asian Americans have become increasingly Democratic, self-identifying in public opinion surveys as Democratic rather than Republican by a 52-32 margin. African Americans remain reliably loyal to the Democratic Party by an 86 to 8 percent margin.
Romney is particularly vulnerable to a campaign designed to suppress turnout because his support is more tepid than Obama's.
A New York Times/CBS poll released on Wednesday found that 52 percent of Obama voters back their candidate strongly, compared to 29 percent of Romney voters. In addition, a third of Romney's voters say they are voting for him because of their dislike of Obama, while only 8 percent of Obama voters are primarily motivated by their hostility to Romney.
Vote suppression is important for Obama because his numbers among whites without degrees are worsening, despite the omnipresence of anti-Romney ads in the battleground states. Obama's 29 percent level of support among non-college white men in the Quinnipiac poll cited above is a drop from 32 percent in its April survey, and the 28 percent level in the ABC/Washington Post poll is a drop from 34 percent in their May survey.
With his margins in this group falling, Obama directly benefits from every white non-college voter who stays home and does not vote for Romney. The importance of vote suppression in a close contest can be seen in the following hypothetical: say there are 1,000 voters evenly split, 500 to 500. Candidate A persuades just one of the voters backing his opponent to fail to go to the polls. Candidate A wins 500 to 499.
For Obama, hurdles in recruiting whites without a college degree are particularly high because of the employment patterns illustrated in this chart produced by RBC Capital Markets, which shows the devastating consequences of the 2008 financial collapse on non-college workers.
Voters of all races and ethnicities without college have taken a hit in the job market; politically, however, the drop in employment is most damaging to Obama among whites. African Americans without college degrees are not only loyal to the Democratic Party, but the election puts at risk a second term for the nation's first black president. Hispanics without college have a president who has taken a liberal stand on immigration reform, backed the DREAM Act and appointed the first Hispanic justice, Sonia Sotomayor, to the Supreme Court.
The problems Obama and the Democratic Party face with white non-college voters have deep roots. A study conducted by political consulting firm CRG Communications for the Democratic National Committee in 1985 reached conclusions about the defection of working class whites to the Republican Party that remain relevant in 2012. CRG reported that these defectors believed that:
the Democratic Party has not stood with them as they moved from the working to the middle class. They have a whole set of middle class economic problems today, and the Democratic Party is not helping them. Instead it is helping the blacks, Hispanics and the poor. They feel betrayed.
Looked at this way, CRG reported, key Democratic constituencies - affluent liberals, gay rights activists, ethnic and racial minorities - were "leaving the 'common man' out of the picture."
Demographic trends - the steady decline of the share of the population made up of non-college whites, from 86 percent in 1940 to 48 percent in 2007 - have made winning these voters by increasingly large margins crucial to the Republican Party, while diminishing the Democratic Party's need for their support. 
The 2012 election will be another test of strength in the decade-long competition between this white voting bloc - which dominated in 2002, 2004 and 2010 - and such ascendant Democratic constituencies as Hispanics, college-educated women and young voters, who flexed their muscles in 2006 and 2008.

        
More Than Just a Running Mate
        
How to Get Our Citizens Actually United
        
Connecting With Voters
        
Romney in the Lions' Den
        
Presidential Vacation Reading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (75%); ASIAN AMERICANS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); NATIVE AMERICANS (71%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (68%); FAMILY (66%); STUDENT LOANS (64%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (64%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); INSURANCE DEDUCTIBLES (64%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (63%); MARRIAGE (63%); JEWS & JUDAISM (63%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%); DEPORTATION (50%); GAYS & LESBIANS (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%) 'Firms'; 'Stage'; 2004 Democratic convention; Barack Obama; Mike Turzai; political advertising; presidential election of 2012; voter suppression; Obama, Barack; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Priorities USA

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Priorities USA

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MITT ROMNEY (79%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



874 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 842 words

HEADLINE: Discouraged Dads

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: Many men find it difficult to remain with and nurture their children for a wide range of reasons, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
The percentage of men who contribute time and money to raising children has declined over time in the United States, the other side of the more publicized trend of the rise of single motherhood.
As Jason DeParle points out in a recent article in The New York Times, changes in household structure have contributed to increased poverty and inequality.
But the changes in fathers' willingness to support children associated with these residential shifts may be as much consequence as cause of increased poverty and inequality. Public policies have done little to address this problem beyond small-scale efforts to promote marriage through counseling and education.
Most discussions of single mothers focus on their choices, faulting them for deciding to raise a child without a secure commitment from a father.
Yet the majority have been to the altar (or a justice of the peace) at least once. In 2010, about 62 percent of custodial mothers living with children whose biological father was absent were either divorced or married.

Further, the detailed and comprehensive "Fragile Families and Child Well-Being" study, focusing on low-income parents, shows that most mothers were romantically involved with the fathers of their children during pregnancy and childbirth, hoping for a long-run parenting partnership.
Both nonmarital births and divorce, shaped by a class gradient, are lower among the more educated. One could argue that women who don't get a college degree are stupid, and stupid women are not very smart at picking parenting partners, so we should discourage them from bearing children.
This seems to be the implicit argument behind widespread hostility to public assistance for single mothers. We need to save them from the spider web of dependency on government.
This argument, combined with the widespread misperception that most single mothers are black, helps explain why policies in the United States are so much less supportive of single parents than those in other countries. It also helps explain why poverty rates among children in the United States are exceptionally high. (For detailed statistics, see this compendium provided by the advocacy group Legal Momentum).
Many single mothers are also handicapped by low wages and poor benefits in paid employment.
Still, if they would just marry men like Mitt Romney, they would have it made. Instead, they have sex with men who don't help pay their bills.
In 2009, the latest year for which data are available, only about 41 percent of custodial parents (predominantly women) received the child support they were owed. Some biological dads were deadbeats.
Many others simply couldn't pay up. Men with low levels of education have also been hammered in the job market, and William J. Wilson, among others, has pointed to the decline in "marriageable men" as part of the explanation of changes in family structure. A study of Britain between 1971 and 2001 suggests that deindustrialization and job loss contributed significantly to the growth of lone parenthood.
A recent Government Accountability Office report shows that economic recession also bites. The year 2009 was the first in the history of the current child enforcement program to show a decline in total receipts, even though the amount "intercepted" from unemployment payments nearly tripled.
The report also points out that many states currently dictate that child support payments for families receiving public assistance be used to repay the state, rather than to benefit children.
Declining real wages, high unemployment and cutbacks in social programs affect a wide swath of the economically vulnerable. Research in the field of social epidemiology shows that poverty and economic inequality are stressful, with negative effects on both the physical and mental health of those who feel they have little control over their lives.
In "Promises I Can Keep," the sociologists Kathryn Edin and Maria Kefalas show how the endless struggle to make ends meet can exacerbate mistrust in couples. In continuing research, Professor Edin and Timothy Nelson are studying why many men find it difficult to remain involved with their children.
The social psychologist Shelley Taylor asserts persuasively that men and women have evolved different responses to stress. Men, when threatened, often experience a "fight or flight" response. Women are more likely to resort to a "tend and befriend" strategy.
This gender difference could help explain why low-income women are more likely than their affluent counterparts to become mothers, while low-income men are less likely to live with the mothers of their children.
We know that high unemployment rates in the United States contribute to a discouraged-worker effect, in which people give up actively searching for employment and drop out of the labor force.
Economic conditions at the bottom of the income distribution are also contributing to a discouraged father effect.

        
Credits for Children
        
The Recession in Pink and Blue
        
Social Security and the Stork
        
Price Tags for Parents
        
The Unfunded Liabilities You Love

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PARENTING (91%); SINGLE PARENTS (91%); MEN (90%); TRENDS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); PARENTS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (89%); FAMILY (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); CHILD WELFARE (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); POVERTY RATES (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); DISMISSALS (60%) Child Care; Daily Economist; employment; family; family economics; fath; fathers; marriage; motherhood; Nancy Folbre; parents; Poverty; single parents; Unemployment; Parenting; Government Accountability Office; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (84%) Government Accountability Office

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



875 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 3015 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Cnooc to Acquire Nexen for $15 Billion | Cnooc, the Chinese state-run oil giant, agreed on Monday to buy Nexen for $15 billion, as global players looked to beef up their access to natural resources.
Under the terms of the deal, Cnooc will pay $27.50 a share for the Canadian natural gas company. The price is 61 percent above Nexen's closing price on Friday.
"This is an exciting opportunity for us to build on our existing joint venture relationship with Nexen in Canada, and to acquire a leading international platform in the process," Wang Yilin, chairman of Cnooc, said in a statement.
The deal is one of the biggest overseas expansion efforts by a Chinese company to date. Cnooc was behind one of the most prominent previous efforts when it sought to buy Unocal, an American oil company, but was stymied by political concerns. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
What Is Yahoo, Exactly? | David Carr writes in his column in The New York Times: "Seventeen years after the company was founded, you still have to wonder whether the frothy trademark Yahoo! should be replaced with Yahoo? to convey the uncertainty of purpose." new york times
Murdoch Resigns From Boards of British Papers | The New York Times reports: "After more than a year of scandal in his British newspaper empire, Rupert Murdoch has resigned his directorships in a string of companies that control titles that include The Sun tabloid, The Times and The Sunday Times, raising fresh speculation that he may be planning for an eventual sale of the newspapers that were a major steppingstone during the decades in which he built his global media empire." new york times
Hedge Fund Manager Buys Huguette Clark's Penthouse | The City Room blog reports: "A penthouse in antique, as-is condition at 907 Fifth Avenue, one of three apartments there held by the estate of the reclusive copper heiress Huguette M. Clark, sold for a pre-emptive $25.5 million, $1.5 million above the listing price, to the hedge fund whiz kid Boaz Weinstein, making it the biggest sale of the week according to city records." new york times city room
Stock Investors Play Defense | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Investors are flocking to stocks of large, dividend-paying companies, particularly those seen as less vulnerable to a slowing economy or turmoil in Europe. But their popularity has pushed these so-called defensive stocks to their priciest levels in years - and raised questions about whether they have run too far." wall street journal
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Citic Securities' Shares Slump on Planned $1.3 Billion Deal for CLSA | Investors reacted with caution on Monday to the planned $1.3 billion purchase of one of the leading independent securities firms in Asia by Citic Securities, the biggest brokerage firm in China. DealBook 
NRG Energy to Buy GenOn for $1.7 Billion | NRG expects to raise its annual earnings by $200 million by 2014, as well as save an average of $100 million in interest payments a year. DealBook 
Goldman Hired to Advise on Brewery Offer | Reuters reports: "Singapore conglomerate Fraser and Neave has hired Goldman Sachs to weigh Heineken NV's $6 billion bid for Asia Pacific Breweries as the takeover battle for the maker of Tiger Beer intensifies, sources said." reuters
Kirin Said to Weigh Bid for Asia Pacific Breweries | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Kirin Holdings Co. is in early discussions with bankers for a potential bid for Asia Pacific Breweries Ltd., a move that could intensify the battle for control of the Singapore maker of Tiger Beer, people familiar with the matter said Monday." wall street journal
DreamWorks to Buy Classic Media for $155 Million | The Wall Street Journal reports: "DreamWorks beat out more than half a dozen bidders for Classic Media and will pay cash for the 12-year-old rights-holding company, which is owned by Boomerang Media Holdings I L.L.C., a portfolio company of private-equity firm GTCR L.L.C." wall street journal
Universal May Find Buyers in Indie Labels | As Universal Music looks to sell assets to secure approval for its acquisition of EMI, The Financial Times reports that "several industry members and advisers now expect Universal to bypass Sony and Warner. Instead, independent labels, music publishers, private equity groups and wealthy individuals are examining the assets, they said." financial times
AMR to Review Merger Options | The Wall Street Journal reports: "American Airlines parent AMR Corp. intends to spend the summer and fall evaluating potential merger opportunities and compare them with a plan to emerge from bankruptcy protection as a stand-alone company, Chief Executive Officer Tom Horton said in an interview Friday." wall street journal
Interesting Deals That Flew Under the Radar | The last several weeks have brought several fascinating, less noticed deals, including the Georgia Gulf/PPG deal and the holdings of Philip Falcone's special purpose entity, the Deal Professor writes. DealBook 
HTC Sells Back Part of Stake in Headphone Maker | Reuters reports: "Taiwanese smartphone maker HTC Corp. has sold 25 percent of its holding in audio technology firm Beats Electronics back to Beats' founders, but said it will continue to work closely with the maker of high-end headphones and speakers." reuters
Republic Tobacco Said to Be on the Block | Reuters reports: "Republic Tobacco, a privately held company that makes the Drum brand of loose tobacco in the United States, is seeking a buyer and could fetch more than $2 billion in a potential sale, according to people familiar with the matter." reuters
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Senior Barclays Official Rules Himself Out as Next Chairman | Barclays may find it tough to replace its top executives, as it continues to deal with the fallout from the rate-manipulation scandal. Michael Rake, the British bank's deputy chairman, has ruled himself out as the next chairman, according to a regulatory filing on Monday. DealBook 
Dimon Scoops Up JPMorgan Shares | Bloomberg News reports: "JPMorgan Chase & Co. Chief Executive Officer Jamie Dimon, his wife and a limited-liability company linked to him bought $17.1 million of the bank's shares after the stock slid amid trading losses." bloomberg news
European Central Bank Shuns Greek Bonds | The New York Times reports: "In a decision that appeared to unsettle some investors, the European Central Bank said on Friday that it would at least temporarily stop accepting Greek government bonds as collateral for low-cost loans. This move could hurt some Greek banks that use holdings of their own government's bonds as collateral to obtain low-cost loans from the central bank." new york times
Spain's Borrowing Costs Creep Higher | The New York Times reports: "Spanish borrowing costs rose to worrisome levels for a second day on Friday as the government said the economy would remain in recession through 2013 and the region of Valencia would need state financing." new york times
Banks Spawn Thousands of Subsidiaries | Bloomberg News reports: "The biggest U.S. banks created more than 10,000 subsidiaries in the past 22 years as they expanded, using legal structures to pay lower taxes and escape tighter regulation, according to a Federal Reserve study." bloomberg news
Seeking Shelter in Corporate Debt | Bloomberg News reports: "The world's biggest fixed-income investors, fed up with yields on benchmark government bonds that pay less than zero percent, say they've found a new haven from turmoil sweeping global markets: corporate debt. BlackRock Inc., Glenmede Corp. and at least four other firms that collectively manage in excess of $4 trillion are putting more of their money into the bonds of companies, contributing to a record rally." bloomberg news
The Seeming Randomness of Valuation Advice | Reuters Breakingviews writes: "It's hard to imagine a worse advert for the worth of M.&A. valuation advice than Citigroup and Morgan Stanley's battle to put a price on their wealth management joint venture. The two Wall Street firms are in negotiations for Morgan Stanley to boost its controlling stake by 14 percent, to 65 percent. But their valuations for the business are a whopping $13.5 billion apart." reuters
Julius Baer in Partnership With Bank of China | Reuters reports: "Julius Baer has agreed with a strategic partnership with Bank of China to refer clients to each other and undertake joint marketing activities, the Swiss private bank said on Monday." reuters
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Private Equity Firms Invest in Junk Bonds | Bloomberg News reports: "Private-equity firms from Blackstone Group to Carlyle Group that fueled an expansion in the market for junk bonds and loans during the leveraged buyout boom are now loading up on that debt as takeovers dwindle." bloomberg news
Champ Private Equity Seeks Buyers for Blue Star | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Champ Private Equity has appointed Goldman Sachs New Zealand to sell communications group Blue Star, a person familiar with the matter said." wall street journal
Blackstone and Bain Said to Join Bid for R.B.S. Unit | Bloomberg News reports: "Andy Haste, the former chief executive of RSA Insurance Group, will lead a bid by private equity firms for Royal Bank of Scotland Group's Direct Line Group, the Sunday Telegraph said, citing people it didn't identify." bloomberg news
E.T.F. Industry Draws Interest From Private Equity | The Financial Times reports: "Earlier this month, FactorShares, a provider of leveraged E.T.F.'s with $15.4 million in assets, was acquired for an undisclosed sum by Gencap Ventures, which is owned by Esposito Private Equity Group." financial times
HEDGE FUNDS 
Avenue Capital Hedge Fund Takes Chance on Euro Zone | Even as Europe's economic problems worsen, Marc Lasry and his hedge fund, Avenue Capital, finished raising nearly $3 billion this month for a fund to invest in the debt of troubled European companies, Nelson D. Schwartz reports in The New York Times. DealBook 
Ackman Acolyte to Start New Fund | Bloomberg News reports: "Bill Ackman, the hedge fund manager who is pressing for changes at Procter & Gamble Co., is losing the first analyst he hired for his Pershing Square Capital Management, according to a letter to investors. Scott Ferguson, now a partner at Pershing Square, will leave by the end of the month to start a hedge fund that will use an activist strategy similar to Ackman's, the letter said." bloomberg news
Paulson Plots a Comeback | Pensions and Investments magazine writes that John A. Paulson's hedge fund "has a saving grace: About 60%, or $12.6 billion, of June 30 assets are from employees." pensions and investments
JANA Partners Said to Shuffle Management | Absolute Return magazine reports: "Changes are coming to Barry Rosenstein's $3.2 billion JANA Partners. Gary Claar, who co-founded the event-driven firm with Rosenstein in 2001 and was joint portfolio manager for his entire tenure, has been shifted to a lower-profile "senior adviser" role, according to investor documents obtained by AR." absolute return
London Hedge Fund Manager Goes After the Kremlin | Spiegel Online reports: "Financial investor Bill Browder was once a fan of Russian President Vladimir Putin. But after his lawyer died in prison under suspicious circumstances, he launched a crusade against the Kremlin." spiegel online
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Nasdaq Raises Compensation Offer on Facebook I.P.O. | In a filing it submitted to regulators on Friday, the stock market operator said it would now put aside $62 million in cash to compensate members who lost out when the exchange went down just as Facebook's shares started trading. DealBook 
Facebook's Day of Judgment | The New York Times reports: "In the race for digital advertising dollars, Google has been the clear winner, with its ability to customize advertisements based on what you search for. But Facebook, which customizes ads based on who you and your friends are, hopes to be a contender. An important test of how it is doing will come on Thursday, when it releases its first earnings numbers since going public." new york times
For Kayak Founders, Winding Journey to an I.P.O. Ends | Kayak's founders, Steve Hafner and Paul M. English, said in an interview on Friday that while the travel company's going-public process had been stretched out, nothing had gone wrong, except for a case of poison ivy. DealBook 
BATS Said to Plan Another Attempt at I.P.O. | Reuters reports: "BATS Global Markets will make another attempt to list after a failed initial public offering in March, Mark Hemsley, chief executive for BATS Chi-X Europe, told German daily Handelsblatt." reuters
Reliance Communications of India Withdraws an I.P.O. | The Wall Street Journal reports: "Reliance Communications Ltd. on Friday pulled the initial public offering of a unit that holds its undersea cable assets, adding to a string of large I.P.O.'s that have been scrapped in Asia this year." wall street journal
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Venture Capital Firm Makes Long-Term Bet on Brazil | While the Brazilian economy is cooling, Redpoint e.Ventures has raised a $130 million fund to invest in early stage Internet start-ups in Brazil. DealBook 
V.C. Firms Discover a Flair for Self-Promotion | Though venture capitalists once shunned the limelight, the industry has evolved. The New York Times reports: "Sand Hill Road in Silicon Valley is one long parade route. Venture capitalists are hiring full-time public relations experts to tell bloggers and reporters of their investing prowess. They publicize their every doing and thought on Twitter and in blog posts. In the last year, several top firms have hired people to handle marketing, branding and public relations full time." new york times
Kleiner Perkins Loses Bid to Send Discrimination Case to Arbitration | The Bits blog writes: "Kleiner immediately said it planned to appeal, which could essentially freeze the case for a year. But Judge Harold E. Kahn's ruling puts the firm in a vulnerable position that leaves it contemplating two unpleasant possibilities: an embarrassing trial or an expensive settlement." new york times bits
A Tech Bubble, of the Protective Sort | Nick Bilton writes on the Bits blog: "Eat dinner with start-up founders and venture capitalists, and the conversation can quickly shift from industry banter about the latest billion-dollar acquisition to the type of private jet people own. This is where a select group in the Valley are oblivious to the rest of the world, ensconced in their own protective bubble." new york times bits
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Libor Case Documents Show Timid Regulators | Documents released on Friday show that regulators balked at playing a more public role in reform efforts in 2008, and some British officials pushed back on certain fixes. DealBook 
UBS's Track Record of Averting Prosecution | James B. Stewart, the Common Sense columnist for The New York Times, says that the Swiss bank UBS, one of more than a dozen being investigated for manipulating interest rates, has a trail of transgressions that makes it stand out from other banks. The New York Times
Can Wall Street Be Regulated? | Gar Alperovitz, a professor of political economy at the University of Maryland, writes in an op-ed piece in The New York Times: "The Barclays interest-rate scandal, HSBC's openness to money laundering by Mexican drug traffickers, the epic blunders at JPMorgan Chase - at this point, four years after Wall Street wrecked the global economy, does anyone really believe we can regulate the big banks? And if we broke them up, would they really stay broken up?" new york times
In Rate-Rigging Scandal, Regulators Passing the Buck | The New York Times editorial board writes: "For now, the trans-Atlantic back and forth is yet another example of the deplorable state of financial regulation during the run-up to the financial crisis. It also shows how hard it is to get to the bottom of a controversy when the officials in positions of power now - like Messrs. Geithner, King and Tucker - are the same people who were running things when the misconduct occurred." new york times
Libor Scandal Shows the Pitfalls of Self-Policing | James Surowiecki writes in The New Yorker: "The most striking thing about this scandal is that it was predictable - the way Libor was designed practically invited corruption - yet no one did anything to stop it. That's because, for decades, regulators and people in the financial industry assumed that banks' desire to protect their reputations would keep them honest." new yorker
A Summer of Scandals | Joe Nocera writes in his column in The New York Times: "Is it my imagination, or does every week bring news of another financial scandal? No, it's not my imagination." new york times
What the Bailout Watchdog Saw | Gretchen Morgenson writes that a new book by Neil Barofsky, the official who policed the Troubled Asset Relief Program, is "illuminating, if deeply depressing." new york times
Futures Regulator Under Scrutiny After Peregrine | The Wall Street Journal reports: "The collapse of Peregrine Financial Group Inc. has prompted new scrutiny of the futures industry's front-line regulator and triggered plans to change its practices just as the agency prepares to take on a bigger role in policing derivatives markets." wall street journal
Former Bank of America Official Indicted in Municipal Case | Bloomberg News reports: "A former executive at the Bank of America Corporation has been indicted in connection with what prosecutors called a 'far-reaching conspiracy' to defraud municipal bond investments through bid-rigging." bloomberg news
Kodak Loses a Patent Fight | Bloomberg News reports: "Eastman Kodak has lost its patent case against Apple and Research in Motion over digital image-preview technology in a ruling that could hurt the company's efforts to get a high price for its patents. Kodak said it would appeal." bloomberg news
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (78%); MERGERS (78%); HOME PRICES (76%); DIVIDENDS (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (62%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%)

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (90%); NEW YORK TIMES CO (90%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (90%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (90%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (93%); CHINA (90%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



876 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Quad)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Leading Off: Penn State Earned Any and All Wrath

BYLINE: LYNN ZINSER


HIGHLIGHT: The statue of Joe Paterno has been removed. The N.C.A.A. has announced the penalties against Penn State. It's hard to argue against the importance of either. 

 BODY:
As the college football world absorbs the enormity of the sanctions the N.C.A.A. brought down on Penn State Monday morning, there will certainly be squawking. Of course there will. There was squawking as Penn State finally made the most decent move on Sunday of removing the Joe Paterno statue from outside Beaver Stadium, when it is almost impossible to believe anyone wanted to continue to deify in bronze a man who harbored a child molester from prosecution for 14 years.
Unlike the symbolic statue-razing, the N.C.A.A.'s decision comes with significant collateral damage. Yes, it is easy to feel for the current players. And the regular folks whose livelihoods depend on the economic engine that is Penn State football. They deserve empathy most of all, because the N.C.A.A. is allowing the players to pick up and move their careers to another school, to get on with football as they choose, but it is not so easy just to pick up your sandwich shop and move to Tucson.
But sometimes symbolism must happen. To argue Penn State did not deserve this on any front is barely defensible. It became the poster child for sports run completely amok, for priorities so skewed that it makes your mind spin. No, Penn State is not alone. Yes, those priorities are trampled nearly everywhere in this country. But don't we have to start somewhere? Isn't 14 years of child rape in the name of football glory a worthy place to start?
The hardest part to endure about the squawking is that much of it is based on the same underlying reflex that drove Penn State off this particular cliff. It is the don't-mess-with-my-games reflex. It wasn't just Paterno who lost his mind thinking his program trumped the fate of all those innocent boys. It's an entire sports culture gone over the wall. So whatever you think about the N.C.A.A. and Mark Emmert and all the people saying they overstepped legal bounds and rattled everyone's Penn State fandom foundation, isn't it so hard to argue that had to be done? And if this doesn't warrant a gigantic , what on earth does? Even Penn State absorbed its blow today and accepted it. 
So yes, many of us will be with this sentiment:
And on ESPN2, Bayless and Smith debate Penn State penalties through volume & bloviating. Had to turn it off. Could not take it today.
- Richard Deitsch (@richarddeitsch)23 Jul 12
The reaction to today's news, along with the de-statueing move of the weekend, will be coming in as the day goes along. We'll keep you updated on what's being written, so check back for a growing list.
To kick it off, Dan Wetzel of Yahoo.com explains some of the motivations of Emmert and his history of frustration with the N.C.A.A.'s rusty wheels of justice.
As current Coach Bill O'Brien contemplates the fallout, Sarah Ganim of The Patriot-News writes that O'Brien's contract left him no escape hatches.
11:48 a.m. | Updated Christine Brennan's take on USA Today, saying the punishment was completely deserved.
I will never forget Paterno on his lawn as Sandusky story broke leading chants of "We Are!" on his lawn. Good for you, NCAA.
- Bill Reiter (@foxsportsreiter)23 Jul 12
Anyone who is currently talking about JoePa no longer being winningest coach in NCAA history has completely missed the point.
- Reid Forgrave (@ReidForgrave)23 Jul 12
Blaming NCAA, PSU, Paterno, etc is a little like blaming Congress: totally warranted, but also a great way of not blaming ourselves.
- Patrick Hruby (@patrick_hruby)23 Jul 12
Emmert warns about "athletic culture taking precedence over the academic culture," which means 185 schools are no longer in compliance
- Ray Ratto (@RattoCSN)23 Jul 12
12:17 p.m. | Updated 
Penn State penalty focus shouldn't be on PSU per se--should be on whether it causes other schools to monitor employees better. Yes? Good.
- Mark Purdy (@MercPurdy)23 Jul 12
12:40 p.m. | Updated 
Dan Wetzel of Yahoo.com again weighs in (you have to hand it to him for being fast and thorough), rebutting the idea that these penalties are worse than the death penalty.
1:26 p.m. | Updated 
For Steve Politi of The Star-Ledger today's news makes it a day of hope for college sports to reclaim their soul, but also a day of fear that they won't.
1:57 p.m. | Updated 
RT Paterno statement: "Punishing past, present and future students of the University because of Sandusky's crimes does not serve justice."
- Pete Thamel (@PeteThamelNYT)23 Jul 12
2:44 p.m. | Updated 
ESPN.com's Ivan Maisel is wary of too-swift justice, but sort of understands why the presidents tried to re-grab control.
2:46 p.m. | Updated 
To CBSSports.com's Gregg Doyel, the N.C.A.A.'s punishment - to his astonishment - fit the crime.

        
Penn State Lettermen Lash Out at N.C.A.A.
        
Q. and A. With Mark Emmert
        
At Paterno Statue, Support and Shock
        
Leading Off: Penn State Gets a Coach; the Badgers Get Another Year from Montee Ball
        
In Poll, Fans Still Have Favorable Opinion of Paterno

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); 2011 PENN STATE SEX ABUSE SCANDAL (90%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); CHILD ABUSE (76%); SEX OFFENSES (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%) Bill O'Brien; Jerry Sandusky; joe paterno; mark emmert; N.C.A.A.; Penn State; Emmert, Mark; O'Brien, Bill; Paterno, Joe; College Athletics; Sex Crimes; National Collegiate Athletic Assn; Pennsylvania State University

ORGANIZATION: PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (94%); NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (84%) National Collegiate Athletic Assn; Pennsylvania State University

PERSON: JOE PATERNO (94%); JERRY SANDUSKY (58%) Emmert, Mark; O'Brien, Bill; Paterno, Joe

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2012



877 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: A Closer Look at Middle-Class Decline

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: No one can accuse the presidential campaign of ignoring the American economy or the plight of the middle class. Yet the scale and the complexity of the problem are typically lost amid the charged back-and-forth between President Obama and Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
No one can accuse the presidential campaign of ignoring the American economy or the plight of the middle class. Yet the scale and the complexity of the problem are typically lost amid the charged back-and-forth between President Obama and Mitt Romney.
For the first time since the Great Depression, middle-class families have been losing ground for more than a decade. They, and the poor, have struggled particularly badly since the financial crisis led to a global recession in 2008. The idea that living standards inevitably improve from one generation to the next is under threat. Many of the bedrock assumptions of American culture -- about work, progress, fairness and optimism -- are being shaken. Arguably no question is more central to the country's global standing than whether the economy will perform better in the future than it has in the recent past.
Over the next few months on this blog, several colleagues and I will look in some detail at the challenge and at possible ways forward, and we'll encourage you to weigh in with questions, ideas and other feedback. Later in the presidential campaign, I'll produce an article with my take, with the hope that it will serve as a jumping off point to further debate. This article will be one of a handful that The Times produces on the biggest issues facing the country as it chooses its leader for the next four years. We're calling the series the Agenda. 
Heading into the project, I see the economy's problems along these broad lines:
Since median inflation-adjusted family income peaked in 2000 at $64,232, it has fallen roughly 6 percent. You won't find another 12-year period with an income decline since the aftermath of the Depression.
This unhappy phenomenon has two major sources. First, economic growth in this country has been relatively slow in recent years, which means the total bounty that the American economy produces, to be shared by all of its citizens, has not been growing very rapidly. Even before the financial crisis began in 2008, economic growth in the decade that started in 2001 was on pace to be slower than growth in any decade since World War II.
Then of course came a deep recession that caused the economy to shrink.
In addition to the slow growth in overall size of the pie, the share that has been going to anyone but the richest Americans has been declining. The top-earning 1 percent of households now bring home about 20 percent of total income, up from less than 10 percent 40 years ago. The top-earning 1/10,000th of households -- each earning at least $7.8 million a year, many of them working in finance -- bring home almost 5 percent of income, up from 1 percent 40 years ago. 
In the simplest terms, the relatively meager gains the American economy has produced in recent years have largely flowed to a small segment of the most affluent households, leaving middle-class and poor households with slow-growing living standards.
Why has economic growth slowed and income inequality soared? We invite readers to make their own case or simply to raise questions and possibilities. To do so, you can post a comment below or send an e-mail to agenda@nytimes.com.
In the next installment, we'll start to dig into the causes.

        
Slight Decline in the Jobs Outlook
        
Latest Data Doesn't Move the Political Needle
        
A Downward Trend, and Maybe a Nail-Biter
        
'Soft Patch' on Jobs, With Election on Horizon
        
A Darkening Jobs Picture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 2012 election; presidential election; The Agenda; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; The Agenda: Economy

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



878 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: A Closer Look at Middle-Class Decline

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: No one can accuse the presidential campaign of ignoring the American economy or the plight of the middle class. Yet the scale and the complexity of the problem are typically lost amid the charged back-and-forth between President Obama and Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
No one can accuse the presidential campaign of ignoring the American economy or the plight of the middle class. Yet the scale and the complexity of the problem are typically lost amid the charged back-and-forth between President Obama and Mitt Romney.
For the first time since the Great Depression, middle-class families have been losing ground for more than a decade. They, and the poor, have struggled particularly badly since the financial crisis led to a global recession in 2008. The idea that living standards inevitably improve from one generation to the next is under threat. Many of the bedrock assumptions of American culture -- about work, progress, fairness and optimism -- are being shaken. Arguably no question is more central to the country's global standing than whether the economy will perform better in the future than it has in the recent past.
Over the next few months on this blog, several colleagues and I will look in some detail at the challenge and at possible ways forward, and we'll encourage you to weigh in with questions, ideas and other feedback. Later in the presidential campaign, I'll produce an article with my take, with the hope that it will serve as a jumping off point to further debate. This article will be one of a handful that The Times produces on the biggest issues facing the country as it chooses its leader for the next four years. We're calling the series the Agenda. 
Heading into the project, I see the economy's problems along these broad lines:
Since median inflation-adjusted family income peaked in 2000 at $64,232, it has fallen roughly 6 percent. You won't find another 12-year period with an income decline since the aftermath of the Depression.
This unhappy phenomenon has two major sources. First, economic growth in this country has been relatively slow in recent years, which means the total bounty that the American economy produces, to be shared by all of its citizens, has not been growing very rapidly. Even before the financial crisis began in 2008, economic growth in the decade that started in 2001 was on pace to be slower than growth in any decade since World War II.
Then of course came a deep recession that caused the economy to shrink.
In addition to the slow growth in overall size of the pie, the share that has been going to anyone but the richest Americans has been declining. The top-earning 1 percent of households now bring home about 20 percent of total income, up from less than 10 percent 40 years ago. The top-earning 1/10,000th of households -- each earning at least $7.8 million a year, many of them working in finance -- bring home almost 5 percent of income, up from 1 percent 40 years ago. 
In the simplest terms, the relatively meager gains the American economy has produced in recent years have largely flowed to a small segment of the most affluent households, leaving middle-class and poor households with slow-growing living standards.
Why has economic growth slowed and income inequality soared? We invite readers to make their own case or simply to raise questions and possibilities. To do so, you can post a comment below or send an e-mail to agenda@nytimes.com.
In the next installment, we'll start to dig into the causes.

        
Slight Decline in the Jobs Outlook
        
Latest Data Doesn't Move the Political Needle
        
A Downward Trend, and Maybe a Nail-Biter
        
'Soft Patch' on Jobs, With Election on Horizon
        
A Darkening Jobs Picture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 2012 election; presidential election; The Agenda; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; The Agenda: Economy

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



879 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Likely to Visit Israel in Second Term, Campaign Says

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: Former aides to President Obama demanded that Mr. Romney offer a detailed set of foreign policy recommendations, suggesting that so far, his campaign has dispensed "political platitudes." 

 BODY:
President Obama, who has not traveled to Israel since taking office, is likely to visit the country in a second term, a former top aide said on Monday.
"We can expect him to visit Israel in a second term, if he is elected," said Colin Kahl, Mr. Obama's former deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Middle East, in a campaign conference call devoted to jabbing Mitt Romney over his foreign policy positions.
The call was timed to try to put Mr. Romney on the defensive, days before he leaves for a trip to Europe and Israel.
Mr. Kahl, responding to questions about the sometimes uneasy relationship between Mr. Obama and the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, said relations were "in good shape" and cautioned against reading anything into the president's travels, or lack thereof.
The relationship between the two countries "shouldn't be judged by a travel itinerary," Mr. Kahl said, calling criticisms about the president's not going to Israel a "distraction."
Mr. Kahl pointed out that President George W. Bush did not visit Israel until late in his second term, and that President Ronald Reagan never traveled to the country when in office.
During the call, former aides to Mr. Obama demanded that Mr. Romney offer a detailed set of foreign policy recommendations when he travels to Europe and the Middle East later this week, suggesting that so far, his campaign has dispensed "political platitudes."
In particular, they called on Mr. Romney to specifically explain, while abroad, how he would confront security challenges in Afghanistan, Israel and Iran.
Robert Gibbs, the president's former press secretary, said that "given his lack of experience on these issues and his support for failed policies pursued during Bush administration, this trip should be judged on the type of substantial ideas Mitt Romney outlines."
Mr. Gibbs seemed to draw a contrast between Mr. Obama's trip abroad as a candidate with that of Mr. Romney. Mr. Gibbs recalled, in clinical detail, all of Mr. Obama's meetings with American soldiers and military leaders in Afghanistan and Iraq. Mr. Romney's schedule of meetings while abroad is focused heavily on civilian leaders, rather than military ones.
For its part, the Romney campaign pointed to what it suggested was Mr. Obama's weak record on foreign policy.
"In no region of the world is our country's influence any stronger than it was four years ago. President Obama has failed to restore our economy, is weakening our military with devastating defense cuts, and has diminished our moral authority," said Ryan Williams, a Romney campaign spokesman. "Governor Romney will restore the pillars of American strength to secure our interests and defend our values."

        
Romney Reportedly Considering Foreign-Policy Tour
        
Obama to Skip Economic Summit in Russia
        
Biden Paints Romney as Out of Touch on Foreign Policy
        
On Foreign Policy, Romney Breaks With Advisers
        
Damage Control From Gingrich on Palestinians

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (76%); ARMED FORCES (60%) foreign policy; Gibbs, Robert L; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Williams, Ryan; Presidential Election of 2012; Afghanistan; Europe; Israel; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Gibbs, Robert L; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Williams, Ryan

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Europe; Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



880 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 567 words

HEADLINE: A Closer Look at Middle-Class Decline

BYLINE: DAVID LEONHARDT


HIGHLIGHT: No one can accuse the presidential campaign of ignoring the American economy or the plight of the middle class. Yet the scale and the complexity of the problem are typically lost amid the charged back-and-forth between President Obama and Mitt Romney. 

 BODY:
No one can accuse the presidential campaign of ignoring the American economy or the plight of the middle class. Yet the scale and the complexity of the problem are typically lost amid the charged back-and-forth between President Obama and Mitt Romney.
For the first time since the Great Depression, middle-class families have been losing ground for more than a decade. They, and the poor, have struggled particularly badly since the financial crisis led to a global recession in 2008. The idea that living standards inevitably improve from one generation to the next is under threat. Many of the bedrock assumptions of American culture -- about work, progress, fairness and optimism -- are being shaken. Arguably no question is more central to the country's global standing than whether the economy will perform better in the future than it has in the recent past.
Over the next few months on this blog, several colleagues and I will look in some detail at the challenge and at possible ways forward, and we'll encourage you to weigh in with questions, ideas and other feedback. Later in the presidential campaign, I'll produce an article with my take, with the hope that it will serve as a jumping off point to further debate. This article will be one of a handful that The Times produces on the biggest issues facing the country as it chooses its leader for the next four years. We're calling the series the Agenda. 
Heading into the project, I see the economy's problems along these broad lines:
Since median inflation-adjusted family income peaked in 2000 at $64,232, it has fallen roughly 6 percent. You won't find another 12-year period with an income decline since the aftermath of the Depression.
This unhappy phenomenon has two major sources. First, economic growth in this country has been relatively slow in recent years, which means the total bounty that the American economy produces, to be shared by all of its citizens, has not been growing very rapidly. Even before the financial crisis began in 2008, economic growth in the decade that started in 2001 was on pace to be slower than growth in any decade since World War II.
Then of course came a deep recession that caused the economy to shrink.
In addition to the slow growth in overall size of the pie, the share that has been going to anyone but the richest Americans has been declining. The top-earning 1 percent of households now bring home about 20 percent of total income, up from less than 10 percent 40 years ago. The top-earning 1/10,000th of households -- each earning at least $7.8 million a year, many of them working in finance -- bring home almost 5 percent of income, up from 1 percent 40 years ago. 
In the simplest terms, the relatively meager gains the American economy has produced in recent years have largely flowed to a small segment of the most affluent households, leaving middle-class and poor households with slow-growing living standards.
Why has economic growth slowed and income inequality soared? We invite readers to make their own case or simply to raise questions and possibilities. To do so, you can post a comment below or send an e-mail to agenda@nytimes.com.
In the next installment, we'll start to dig into the causes.

        
Slight Decline in the Jobs Outlook
        
Latest Data Doesn't Move the Political Needle
        
A Downward Trend, and Maybe a Nail-Biter
        
'Soft Patch' on Jobs, With Election on Horizon
        
A Darkening Jobs Picture

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%) 2012 election; presidential election; The Agenda; Presidential Election of 2012; United States Economy; The Agenda: Economy

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



881 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Obama Is Likely to Visit Israel in Second Term, Campaign Says

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: Former aides to President Obama demanded that Mr. Romney offer a detailed set of foreign policy recommendations, suggesting that so far, his campaign has dispensed "political platitudes." 

 BODY:
President Obama, who has not traveled to Israel since taking office, is likely to visit the country in a second term, a former top aide said on Monday.
"We can expect him to visit Israel in a second term, if he is elected," said Colin Kahl, Mr. Obama's former deputy assistant secretary of defense for the Middle East, in a campaign conference call devoted to jabbing Mitt Romney over his foreign policy positions.
The call was timed to try to put Mr. Romney on the defensive, days before he leaves for a trip to Europe and Israel.
Mr. Kahl, responding to questions about the sometimes uneasy relationship between Mr. Obama and the Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu of Israel, said relations were "in good shape" and cautioned against reading anything into the president's travels, or lack thereof.
The relationship between the two countries "shouldn't be judged by a travel itinerary," Mr. Kahl said, calling criticisms about the president's not going to Israel a "distraction."
Mr. Kahl pointed out that President George W. Bush did not visit Israel until late in his second term, and that President Ronald Reagan never traveled to the country when in office.
During the call, former aides to Mr. Obama demanded that Mr. Romney offer a detailed set of foreign policy recommendations when he travels to Europe and the Middle East later this week, suggesting that so far, his campaign has dispensed "political platitudes."
In particular, they called on Mr. Romney to specifically explain, while abroad, how he would confront security challenges in Afghanistan, Israel and Iran.
Robert Gibbs, the president's former press secretary, said that "given his lack of experience on these issues and his support for failed policies pursued during Bush administration, this trip should be judged on the type of substantial ideas Mitt Romney outlines."
Mr. Gibbs seemed to draw a contrast between Mr. Obama's trip abroad as a candidate with that of Mr. Romney. Mr. Gibbs recalled, in clinical detail, all of Mr. Obama's meetings with American soldiers and military leaders in Afghanistan and Iraq. Mr. Romney's schedule of meetings while abroad is focused heavily on civilian leaders, rather than military ones.
For its part, the Romney campaign pointed to what it suggested was Mr. Obama's weak record on foreign policy.
"In no region of the world is our country's influence any stronger than it was four years ago. President Obama has failed to restore our economy, is weakening our military with devastating defense cuts, and has diminished our moral authority," said Ryan Williams, a Romney campaign spokesman. "Governor Romney will restore the pillars of American strength to secure our interests and defend our values."

        
Romney Reportedly Considering Foreign-Policy Tour
        
Obama to Skip Economic Summit in Russia
        
Biden Paints Romney as Out of Touch on Foreign Policy
        
On Foreign Policy, Romney Breaks With Advisers
        
Damage Control From Gingrich on Palestinians

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); POLITICS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CAUCUSES (76%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CONFERENCE CALLS (76%); ARMED FORCES (60%) foreign policy; Gibbs, Robert L; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Williams, Ryan; Presidential Election of 2012; Afghanistan; Europe; Israel; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (89%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (88%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%) Gibbs, Robert L; Netanyahu, Benjamin; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Williams, Ryan

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); IRAQ (79%) Afghanistan; Europe; Israel

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



882 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: An Amazon Education

BYLINE: DAVID STREITFELD


HIGHLIGHT: On Amazon's home page, an unusual letter from Jeff Bezos, the retailer's chief executive, talks about a new benefit for Amazon's ever-growing pool of warehouse workers. The company promises workers can receive tuition assistance as long as it is in an Amazon-specified field. Aircraft mechanics, computer-aided design, machine tool technologies, medical lab technologies and nursing meet the criteria. Coursework toward a B.A. or M.A. does not. 

 BODY:
Amazon generally saves its home page for promoting the Kindle Fire or offering various deals keyed to the customer's previous purchases. On Monday, however, users saw an unusual letter from Jeff Bezos, the retailer's chief executive, talking about a new benefit for Amazon's ever-growing pool of warehouse workers.
"It can be difficult in this economy to have the flexibility and financial resources to teach yourself new skills," Mr. Bezos writes. Under a new program, Amazon warehouse workers can receive tuition assistance as long as it is in an Amazon-specified field. Aircraft mechanics, computer-aided design, machine tool technologies, medical lab technologies and nursing meet the criteria.
The fine print reveals that employees need to work for Amazon for three years to use the program, and that the maximum benefit is $2,000 a year. Only technical and vocation training programs qualify. Oddly, coursework toward a B.A. or M.A. does not.
Putting this announcement on the home page seemed to direct it less to potential employees than current customers, some of whom may have vaguely heard about difficult working conditions in Amazon warehouses through newspaper series in Pennsylvania and Seattle.
Sucharita Mulpuru, the retail analyst for Forrester Research, was unimpressed. "It seemed self-congratulatory," she said in an interview. "Most companies, when they treat their workers well, that's just what they do. They don't say, 'This is a reason you should do business with us.' "

        
At Amazon's Warehouses, Cooler Times
        
Amazon Plans Its Next Conquest: Your Closet
        
Amazon, Up in Flames
        
Amazon Has Tried Everything to Make Shopping Easier. Except This.
        
Daily Report: The Review Was Fake. The Refund Was Real.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (90%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); COMPUTER AIDED DESIGN (75%); MEDICAL & DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORIES (74%) Amazon; retailing; Shopping and Retail; Amazon.com Inc; Amazon.com Inc|AMZN|NASDAQ; Retailing

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Amazon.com Inc

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%) Amazon.com Inc; AMZN; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: JEFFREY P BEZOS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2012



883 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Congress Presses New York Fed for More Details on Rate-Rigging Scandal

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Congress is seeking more documents and communications between the New York Fed and employees from all 16 banks that help set the Libor rate. 

 BODY:
Congress widened its inquiry into the interest-rate manipulation scandal, pressing the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to further disclose its knowledge of the multiyear scheme. 
On Monday, the oversight panel of the House Financial Services Committee sent a letter to the New York Fed seeking volumes of records about the London interbank offer rate, or Libor, a measure of how much banks charge each other for loans. Lawmakers are demanding that the New York Fed detail its communications with employees from all 16 banks that help set the interest rate, which affects the trillions of dollars in mortgages and other loans.
The letter follows an Congressional request that the New York Fed turn over transcripts from phone calls its officials had with just one bank: Barclays. 
 In June, the British bank became the first to settle accusations that it tried to manipulate Libor for its own benefit. Authorities around the globe are investigating more than 10 other big banks for their role in rigging the interest rate. 
The initial transcripts released this month showed that the New York Fed learned about wrongdoing at Barclays in 2008. That revelation called into question whether the New York Fed pursued the matter fully. 
"We know that we're not posting um, an honest" rate, a Barclays employee told a New York Fed official in April 2008, according to transcripts. At the time, because high borrowing costs were a sign of poor health, banks were submitting artificially low rates to project a better image of their finances. 
The transcript, among other documents, only fed the firestorm over what regulators might have known about the rate-rigging scandal. The New York Fed and other authorities are under scrutiny for failing to thwart the illegal activities that, at Barclays, continued to 2009. 
"There are still many outstanding questions that merit further investigation," Representative Randy Neugebauer, the chairman of the House Financial Services Subcommittee on Oversight and Investigations, wrote in the letter on Monday. 
The latest request is likely to produce reams of memos and e-mails. The subcommittee is demanding "all communications and documents" between the New York Fed and the 16 banks over a five-year span, from 2007 to 2012. The New York Fed, which has until Sept. 1 to provide the documents, must also turn over its internal documents and any correspondence with authorities in the United States and abroad. 
The New York Fed has defended its actions, saying it briefed regulators about the broad problems with Libor. 
But lawmakers have questioned why the New York Fed, despite its awareness of misconduct at Barclays, did not refer the illegal acts to regulators or the Justice Department. Instead, the New York Fed circulated in June 2008 a plan to fix Libor, producing a six-point plan to revamp the rate-setting process. 
"As you know, the role of government is to ensure that our markets are run with the highest standards of honesty, integrity and transparency," Mr. Neugebauer wrote. "Therefore, any admission of market manipulation -- regardless of the degree -- should be swiftly and vigorously investigated."

        
New York Fed Knew of False Barclays Reports on Rates
        
Finding Recourse When Investors Are Cheated

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); SCANDALS (90%); MISCONDUCT (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); INTERBANK LENDING (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%) Barclays; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; House Financial Services Committee; Libor; New York Fed; Randy Neugebauer; Banking and Financial Institutions; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; House of Representatives; Neugebauer, Randy; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (94%); BARCLAYS PLC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: House Financial Services Committee; House of Representatives

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (94%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%)

PERSON: RANDY NEUGEBAUER (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



884 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: July 23: Is Minnesota a Battleground Again?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's chances of winning the Electoral College fell slightly in Monday's forecast, to 66.8 percent from 68.0 percent on Saturday. 

 BODY:
President Obama's chances of winning the Electoral College fell slightly in Monday's forecast, to 66.8 percent from 68.0 percent on Saturday.
Part of the reason is a new round of bad news from Europe, where investors are growing more concerned about the ability of Greece and Spain to meet their bailout obligations. The stock market declined on the European news, which in turn caused a decline in the economic index that our model uses.
There are times when stock market prices - and to a lesser extent, the other economic data series that our model uses - fluctuate more or less at random. But on a day like Monday, when the market was reacting to real news about Europe, it can be important to remember that what is happening overseas can sometimes be the most important political story of the day, at least when it comes to forecasting November's outcome.
Mr. Obama also received some mediocre data in Minnesota, where a new SurveyUSA poll showed him six points ahead of Mitt Romney there. This is the first survey to show the race within single digits in the state.
On the one hand, a poll showing Mr. Obama ahead by six in Minnesota is not an intrinsically terrible, or unexpected, result for him. Minnesota has become more of a swing state in recent years, and polls in similar states like Michigan and Wisconsin had shown reasonably close races there.
On the other hand, the poll shows a decline from the prior SurveyUSA poll of the state, and Mr. Obama may need to consider whether he needs to invest resources in defending it. With the new poll, Minnesota now ranks 11th on our list of tipping point states - putting it somewhere on the border between those states that the campaigns clearly need to attend to and those that might fall into the "optional" category.
Mr. Romney will need to make a decision about Minnesota as well, of course. In 2008, it proved to be a bit of a trap state for Republicans. They held their convention there and invested a significant amount of advertising in the state, but these efforts did not seem to move the needle much.
Minnesota is also interesting in that it is very similar, demographically and politically, to its neighbor and rival Wisconsin. Arguably, that makes it redundant if Mr. Romney thinks he already has a path to 270 electoral votes through Wisconsin. But the states could also be viewed as a two-for-one parlay, their 20 total electoral votes likely to move in tandem with each other.
Neither campaign, probably, should change its strategy in the state on the basis of a single poll there. The model still makes Mr. Obama a fairly heavy favorite in Minnesota, giving him an 88 percent chance of winning it in November. 
But the state has been sparsely polled and probably merits a more attention than it has been getting from pollsters and poll-watchers. 
Some pollsters, in fact, have ignored Minnesota when coming up with their list of "battleground states," even though it is more likely to play an important role in the electoral math than states like Arizona that have often been included on those lists. 
Minnesota may not be the sexiest state, but we're a long way removed from the 1980s when Democrats could take it for granted every year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (79%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (73%); RANKINGS (67%) Politics; Polling; projection update

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (98%); WISCONSIN, USA (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (93%); GREECE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012



885 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 23, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1602 words

HEADLINE: This Week in Small Business: Women Rule

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Plus: the seven best marketing videos online, a Geek Squad for small businesses, the 10 commandments for Pinterest and what we can learn from the T.S.A. 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
The Big Story: A Big Week for Women
Yahoo hires a 37-year-old pregnant woman to be its next chief executive. Kit Eaton thinks it's a great thing for Google. More Gen-X women are taking charge. American Express OPEN begins a campaign celebrating female entrepreneurs. These are the best states for female entrepreneurs. Since the recession ended in June 2009, men have gained 80 percent of the 2.6 million net jobs created, including 61 percent in the last year. But women are clearly smarter than men, and approximately 80 percent of a child's intelligence is acquired from the mother. Hillary Rodham Clinton breaks a travel record.
The Economy: Remembering the Downgrade
One year later, the downgrade of United States debt looks as if it wasn't so bad. Mike Shedlock reports that only 23 percent of American companies plan to hire in the next six months. Peter Schiff thinks the economy is heading for a collapse that will "make 2008 look like a walk in the park." A leading economic index declines. Doug Short says the big four economic indicators are not pointing toward a recession. Gary Schilling says these numbers indicate we're already in a recession. These are the most important charts in the world. Olivier Blanchard says the entire world is facing a weak recovery, and the International Monetary Fund cuts its growth forecast. Here's everything you need to know about the fiscal cliff.
The Data: Retail Sales Fall 
Retail sales fall for the third straight month, and Tim Duy says it's a slap in the face for the Federal Reserve. But a new analysis from MasterCard and Wells Fargo shows that small retailers are outperforming others. Ben S. Bernanke offers a gloomy view, and the Fed's Beige Book reveals nothing new. Matteo Radaelli says that economic activity is softening. North America's metals service centers weren't very busy. The Philadelphia Fed index looks worse than expected (but a little pop shop seems to be doing O.K.). Jobless claims rise sharply. Existing home sales are down. Business inventories and sales data look good. Industrial output climbs. Manufacturing in the New York region grew at a faster pace. Prices remain steady. Los Angeles-areaports are busy. Corporate cash continues to pile up. June 2012 residential building comes in soft, but housing starts are a bright spot. Builder confidence rises.
Management: Putting Lego Back Together
These are seven signs your home office is slowly killing you. Allen Tucker says we should pay too much. A blogger lists seven things you're doing that could be more remarkable. Valeria Maltoni explains why she admires Sephora. Crystal Watts believes there are five ways you can be the expert you say you are. Allison Nazarian explains what to do when you don't know what to do: "Keep moving forward." Mat Vogels says fix it even if it ain't broke. Here's why innovation was bankrupting Lego. America's new business model is sharing. This is Magic Mike's guide to seducing your audience.
Your People: Everyone Wants Temps
Gabriel Thompson says everyone wants temps. Jonathan Alexander gives advice for measuring your team. The Labor Department reports that public workers are more likely to have health benefits. Heather Huhman suggests these three online tools for finding the perfect job candidate. Lance Roberts believes corporate profits have surged at the expense of workers. A study finds that employees want to work (pdf) in a place that shares their values. Here's a summary of what Americans earn.
Social Media: The 10 Commandments
Here are the 10 commandments of Pinterest for business. And here are five 360-degree marketing platforms for small businesses. A Pew study finds that half of all adult cellphone owners are connected viewers who now incorporate their mobile devices into television watching. Foursquare has introduced a new feature to connect businesses with customers. Amanda Goodhue offers two case studies of successful small-business campaigns that employed social media and digital public relations. Facebook renovates its small-business site. Brian Morris offers the seven best marketing videos online right now. Fabienne Fredrickson suggests 151 ways to attract clients.
Finance: Mr. Zuckerberg Takes a Mortgage
MasterCard introduces a small-business network and agrees to a $7.2 billion settlement that could be an opportunity for small retailers. Now may be a good time to buy or sell a business. Banking.com's Erica Bell offers tips on how to choose a bank for your small business. Mark Zuckerberg took out a mortgage? Start-ups have recently raked in the most venture capital since the dot-com bubble. A retailing Web site raises $105 million.
Around the Country: Trend Schools
A Michigan retailer looks for the next great toymaker. Harriet Baskas wonders how scary our airports are. Starbucks will create more than 140 manufacturing jobs at a state-of-the-art plant in Georgia. Best Buy puts up $100,000 for dorm-room innovators. Goldman Sachs pledges millions to help small businesses in Utah. Steven Malanga says that "now that three California cities have declared bankruptcy, perhaps it's time to consider the lessons of Wisconsin." Gallup says the West North Central region is poised for a bright future. A small-town business blog publishes an e-book on how to build a business in a small town. "Trend schools" are scheduled for Los Angeles and New York. Washington's mayor introduces a battery of training and networking programs aimed at emerging entrepreneurs. American Airlines and Startup America introduce a program to support the growth of small- and medium-size businesses. Gov. Andrew Cuomo signs a law to help New York craft brewers. Travelocity comes up with a programfor small businesses. A small-business owner in Virginia doesn't understand why everyone is snickering at his shop's name (or does he?).
Red Tape: Zombie Survival
A new Ernst & Young report (pdf) says higher taxes will "reduce work effort and labor force participation." Robert Reich says small-businesses are hindered by consumers, not taxes. A zombie survival kit is available for only $24,000 and a professor of law at Arizona State University publishes a paper that "details the significant problems our government will have regarding tax policy once the undead begin trolling the earth, feasting on the brains of the living." Gov. Jerry Brown of California signed legislation that that helps businesses eliminate the cost of filing duplicate documents with local officials. The Postal Service is losing $25 million a day. MSNBC's Your Business discusses the health care overhaul. The Small Business Administration begins gathering facts about small businesses on its Web site. Here is a program to help veterans start businesses.
Technology: Small-Business Geeks
Verizon makes the Geek Squad available to its small-business customers. Facebook invests in an undersea cable project. The most successful operating system of all time is about to meet its end. A research report says small businesses increasingly rely on mobile for business operations, and Bob Egner offers these elements of a successful mobile strategy. PayPal doubles down on its mobile payment strategy. Jack Wallen shares five open source tools for knocking out business tasks. Apple is expected to introduce a mini iPad later this year. Researchers at Aarhus University in Denmark propose a new way to make a quantum logic gate that could become the building block of a new generation of atomtronic computing devices. Microsoft releases a preview of Office 2013 and reports its first loss as a public company. Intel's earnings warning is an ominous sign for the tech sector. Here are five tech buzzwords small businesses hate and six big technologies coming in 2013.
Tweets of the Week
@pkedrosky With @marissamayer joining Yahoo as CEO, there are now 41 female Fortune 1000 CEOs -- and 38 of them started since 2006.
@gingerconsult Our success in leadership is that we make others better than they were before we met. Our legacy is the leaders we leave behind.
 [#x200f]@LisaBarone Sometimes holding your opinion on Twitter is smarter than dedicating the 30 more tweets you'll need to argue w people about it.
Bests of the Week
Brad Remillard believes that skills and experiences are irrelevant when hiring: "The reason most hiring processes fail is because it is easy for a candidate to talk about her skills and experiences. Some candidates might even embellish in this area. It significantly is different to explain how she would apply those skills and experiences in your company, with your culture, your resources, your budget constraints and all the aspects that make your company unique from the company she is leaving or just left."
Ben T. Smith IV learned a few lessons from the Transportation Security Agency on how to start a company: "The importance of monitoring and adjusting can't be overemphasized. Congress had estimated 3,000 screeners would be needed for scanning checked bags. The real number of screeners needed ended up being 10 times that amount. The T.S.A. was forced to quickly re-evaluate its hiring goals. Metrics for measuring success must be aligned with long-term goals, not rigid, non-negotiable commitments to areas that may require change with time."
This Week's Question: What lessons have you learned from the T.S.A.?
Marks Group

        
This Week in Small Business: Introducing the Cashtag
        
This Week In Small Business: Pet Supplies!
        
This Week in Small Business: Groupon's New Deal
        
This Week in Small Business: Managing Millennials
        
This Week in Small Business: Health Care Fantasies

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); WOMEN (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (87%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (86%); RETAIL SALES (86%); SALES FIGURES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (77%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); CREDIT CARDS (76%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); INVENTORIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (73%); GENERATION X (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); HOUSING STARTS (71%); EXISTING HOME SALES (70%); RETAILERS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (69%); CONSTRUCTION (64%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (61%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (60%) economy; Small Business; Entrepreneurship; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (65%); GOOGLE INC (58%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (54%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (65%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (52%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BEN BERNANKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 7, 2012



886 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1709 words

HEADLINE: With Warming, Peril Underlies Road to Alaska

BYLINE: By CORNELIA DEAN

 BODY:
WHITEHORSE, Yukon Territory -- In February 1942, President Franklin D. Roosevelt gave the Army Corps of Engineers an assignment: Build a road from British Columbia across the Yukon to Alaska -- in eight months, before winter sets in.
Japan had just destroyed much of the Pacific fleet at Pearl Harbor. Alaska was vulnerable to invasion (in fact, the Japanese occupied two Aleutian Islands that June). If Americans did not build a supply road linking Alaska to the heart of North America, the thinking went, invading Japanese would do it for them.
But prospects for success were poor. The road would traverse 1,500 miles of mountainous subarctic terrain, most of it unsettled, heavily forested and unmapped. Engineers would face fierce cold, fierce heat, vicious insects, and vast stretches of permafrost and boggy terrain called muskeg that swallowed bulldozers whole.
Nevertheless, the Alaska Canada Military Highway was declared open the following October. Nicknamed the Alcan, this so-called pioneer road was little more than a gravel lane passable only by military trucks. Still, people called it the 20th century's greatest engineering feat, after only the Panama Canal. 
Today, as the road now known as the Alaska Highway celebrates its 70th birthday, cars and trucks flash along what Wally Hidinger calls ''a very good standard two-lane highway'' from Dawson Creek, British Columbia, to Fairbanks, Alaska. ''Our mantra is bare, dry pavement 365 days a year,'' said Mr. Hidinger, who directs transportation engineering for the Yukon territorial government. It is a vow he and his staff can keep.
They rely on remote sensing technology to anticipate bad weather and keep the pavement clear. They work to unkink twists and turns left over from the original construction, when the builders dealt with muskeg and other obstacles by curving the road around them.
But today the Alcan faces challenges that could not have been predicted when it was built. By far the biggest is permafrost, the permanently frozen ground that underlies much of the road.
As the climate warms, stretches of permafrost are no longer permanent. They are melting -- leaving pavement with cracks, turning asphalt into washboard and otherwise threatening the stability of the road.
Not all of the melting is due to climate change. Road improvements like heat-absorbing dark pavement alter conditions in the ground beneath, particularly if a lens of ice lies close to the surface. Merely removing roadside vegetation to uncover dark soil can have a melting effect.
Another problem is fire. ''Even a natural forest fire will change the surface of the road,'' leading to melting, said Bronwyn Benkert, who studies cold-climate issues at the Yukon Research Center, and who is researching highway conditions north of here, near the Alaska boarder.
But climate change is most worrisome of all. Not only is the world warming: it is warming fastest in high northern latitudes. And the problem is getting worse, with no easy solutions.
If the permafrost is patchy -- ''discontinuous,'' in geological parlance -- even identifying areas of melt risk is tricky. Highway engineers have been drilling core samples along the roadway for 50 years, but ''if you don't drill in the right place you won't find it,'' Mr. Hidinger said. ''We don't even have a precise picture of the soil conditions under the road.''
So engineers are using ground-penetrating radar and instruments to measure gravity variations, among other techniques, to try to identify permafrost areas.
In a test section near Beaver Creek, at the Alaska border, researchers and engineers are also experimenting with ways to limit permafrost melting along the highway, including rock embankments that insulate the ground in summer, keeping it relatively cool, and help carry cold air below ground in winter. Elsewhere, the engineers have replaced asphalt with light-colored pavement to reduce the amount of heat the road absorbs. Unfortunately, it costs up to 10 times as much as ordinary pavement.
The permafrost problem is not limited to the Alcan, of course. ''Understanding permafrost is a necessary evil building roads in the north,'' said Stephen Mooney, who directs the cold climate innovation project at the Yukon Research Center here. He hopes to encourage the use of standard terminology and measuring techniques so engineers will be able to learn from one another.
The Canadian government, as well as scientists in Alaska, Russia and other cold places are supporting research on permafrost -- support that would have meant the world to the men who carved the pioneer road out of the forest.
A Strategic Corridor
They began with only a vague idea of where it should run and hardly any idea at all of how to build it.
People had argued about building roads in the region since the Klondike gold rush at the turn of the 20th century, when stampeding miners took boats to the Alaska panhandle town of Skagway, hiked across the mountains to Whitehorse and boarded paddle-wheel steamers for the trip up the Yukon River to the gold fields. Many would-be road builders argued for a coastal path.
In 1942 it was clear that the military road had to be out of reach of carrier-based Japanese bombers. Moreover, it would have to link to the Northwest Staging Route, a series of highly primitive airstrips built between Grand Forks, N.D., and Fairbanks for ferrying Lend-Lease planes to the Soviet Union.
In the end, planners sketched an inland route and assigned five regiments of the Army Corps of Engineers to move men and equipment over frozen rivers, set up base camps and get ready to build.
But how? Heath Twichell, a historian and retired Army colonel, tells the story in ''Northwest Epic'' (St. Martin's Press, 1992), a widely cited history of the road. Their first step, he writes, was to dispatch a surveyor or two on horseback or dogsled, accompanied by a native guide. They would stake out a possible route for the road.
Behind them came men on bulldozers who knocked down the trees. Behind them came another bulldozer team to clear debris and build bridges and culverts. Next came surveyors to mark out centerlines and edges, then a team to fill low spots and construct drainage ditches.
The men dragged sleeping bags, food and supplies behind them. The entire enterprise was called a train, and the men on it worked seven days a week, in long summer days for 14 hours or more at a stretch.
They suffered ''the most extreme conditions imaginable,'' as a private contractor put it a year later while seeking civilians to work on upgrading the new road and on a subsidiary oil pipeline built nearby.
''Temperatures will range from 90 degrees above zero to 70 degrees below zero,'' read a help-wanted ad. ''Men will have to fight swamps, rivers, ice and cold. Mosquitoes, flies and gnats will not only be annoying but will cause bodily harm.''
At times progress was agonizingly slow, especially when a train encountered muskeg. Eventually, Dr. Twichell writes, the engineers learned to cut trees and plants by hand in muskeg areas, to minimize disturbance to the soil. Small plants were left where they fell; the trees they laid crosswise over the road's path, to create a surface ribbed like corduroy. Over this surface went loads of soil and gravel. The corduroy stretches were passable -- barely.
When they encountered melting permafrost, the builders did much the same.
But when possible, they built around these obstacles, ending up with a road so filled with twists and turns that people assume even today that it was designed to enable truck drivers to evade attack from the air. In a process still under way, engineers have straightened most of these curves, though occasional S-bends remain to tell drivers when they are on the road's pioneer path.
As a result of this work, the road is miles shorter than it was in 1942. By its official mileposts, Whitehorse is at Mile 918; in fact, it is only 884 miles from Dawson Creek.
Changing Landscape
Then as now, the Yukon was sparsely populated. But while today Whitehorse, the capital, has about 24,000 people, in 1941 the entire territory had only a few thousand, many of them members of indigenous tribes who had never seen or heard of bulldozers until they woke one day to find them chomping through the landscape.
The results were highly disruptive, and not just because the soldiers, desperate for fresh food and amusement, hunted with Army weapons and fished by setting off explosives in rivers or lakes. While many native people managed to ignore the road project, others worked for wages for the first time in their lives.
''The project disrupted the traditional subsistence cycle by introducing high-paying jobs that lasted a short time but made people dependent on the wage economy,'' said Michael Gates, a Yukon author and historian who lives here. ''All of a sudden rules were made about what they could or could not do. The Yukon was colonized and the indigenous people were marginalized.''
By the summer of 1943, the Japanese had been driven out of the Aleutians and the tide of war in the Pacific had turned. Shipping routes to Alaska were safe again, and the safety of North America no longer depended on the road.
The oil road, built at enormous effort and expense, found itself under investigation as a waste of time, money and effort.
Today it is maintained ''to a very low standard,'' Mr. Hidinger said. ''It is very twisty, and the drainage is terrible. It's not reliable enough for any kind of industrial use.'' But with mining for lead, gold and other metals on the rise, ''it's starting to become more interesting,'' he said.
As for the Alcan itself, after the war ended, Canada paid the United States about half the cost of building the Canadian portion. Control of the highway passed in 1946 to the Royal Canadian Engineers and subsequently from Canada's central government to British Columbia and the Yukon.
Today it is impossible to imagine life in Whitehorse without it.
Without the road, Mr. Hidinger said, there would be far fewer people here, they would get around largely by boat (and only in warm weather) and they would be a lot less healthy. ''They would be living on canned food,'' he said. Today ''you can put something on a truck in Vancouver and it's here in 30 hours.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ARTERY: The Alaska Highway, built in haste during World War II (top left), is facing big challenges, including the effects of climate change on the permafrost that much of the road was built on. Above, cracking on the shoulder of the road north of Burwash Landing, Yukon. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS
GOVERNMENT OF YUKON)(D1)
 NOT SO PERMANENT A pool of permafrost meltwater has formed along the Alaska Highway near Beaver Creek, Yukon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUY DORE/LAVAL UNIVERSITY)(D4) MAP (D1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORLD WAR II (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (90%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (86%); CLIMATE CHANGE (86%); ARMIES (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (78%); FIRES (77%); FOREST FIRES (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (58%) YUKON TERRITORY, CANADA (97%); ALASKA, USA (94%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (91%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); JAPAN (92%); PANAMA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



887 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: McDonald's Profit Declines As World Economy Weakens

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
The McDonald's Corporation reported a lower-than-expected quarterly profit on Monday, hurt by a weakening global economy and the impact of a stronger dollar. The company said sales growth at established restaurants would slow this month. 
Results from the company, the world's biggest hamburger chain, showed that the sluggish American economic recovery as well as the sovereign debt crisis and austerity in Europe were pinching even the most resilient restaurant operators by forcing diners to trim spending for meals away from home.
''We're seeing more markets that are having consumer confidence issues,'' McDonald's chief executive, Don Thompson, said in a conference call with analysts. ''It's a little more than a European cold, if you would.''
Shares in McDonald's, which has stepped up advertising for its low-priced food to keep customers coming through its doors, fell $2.64, or 2.9 percent, to $88.94.
The McDonald's results came days after Chipotle Mexican Grill, one of the best-performing restaurant chains, surprised investors by saying the lethargic economic recovery had cooled same-restaurant sales growth, adding to concerns about how much consumers were cutting back on discretionary spending.
''This year is going to be a challenge for the chain,'' said Jack Russo, an analyst at Edward Jones. ''Europe has slowed down, and the consumer remains pretty frugal.''
McDonald's reported that the growth of closely watched global sales at restaurants open at least 13 months decelerated during June, increasing 4.4 percent versus 7.7 percent a year earlier.
Net income fell 4.5 percent to $1.35 billion, or $1.32 a share, for the second quarter, from $1.41 billion, or $1.35 a share, a year earlier. The stronger dollar, which lessens the value of sales overseas for American companies, cut 7 cents a share from earnings in the latest quarter, the company said. Higher taxes and costs related to a large sales meeting and its Olympics sponsorship also weighed on profits.
McDonald's earnings missed analysts' average estimate by 5 cents a share, according to Thomson Reuters.
Total revenue edged up to $6.92 billion, from $6.91 billion a year earlier.
Overall sales at comparable restaurants rose 3.7 percent in the second quarter, exceeding the 2.9 percent increase expected by analysts polled by Consensus Metrix.
Advertising helped the company beat sales expectations for Europe in the quarter, when American restaurant margins took a hit as McDonald's competitors put more focus on lower-cost value menus, analysts said.
''You are starting to see signs that consumers are spending less at restaurants,'' said R. J. Hottovy, a Morningstar analyst. ''You are also seeing increased competition.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); SALES & SELLING (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EURO CRISIS (76%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (71%); PUBLIC DEBT (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); EXECUTIVES (55%)

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (98%); CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (55%)

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (98%); CMG (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (98%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



888 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Enrollment Off In Big Districts, Forcing Layoffs

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH; Hank Stephenson contributed reporting from Mesa, Ariz., and Rebecca Fairley Raney from San Bernardino, Calif.

 BODY:
Enrollment in nearly half of the nation's largest school districts has dropped steadily over the last five years, triggering school closings that have destabilized neighborhoods, caused layoffs of essential staff and concerns in many cities that the students who remain are some of the neediest and most difficult to educate.
While the losses have been especially steep in long-battered cities like Cleveland and Detroit, enrollment has also fallen significantly in places suffering through the recent economic downturn, like Broward County, Fla., San Bernardino, Calif., and Tucson, according to the latest available data from the Department of Education, analyzed for The New York Times. Urban districts like Philadelphia and Columbus, Ohio, are facing an exodus even as the school-age population has increased.
Enrollment in the New York City schools, the largest district in the country, was flat from 2005 to 2010, but both Chicago and Los Angeles lost students, with declining birthrates and competition from charter schools cited as among the reasons. 
Because school financing is often allocated on a per-pupil basis, plummeting enrollment can mean fewer teachers will be needed. But it can also affect the depth of a district's curriculum, jeopardizing programs in foreign languages, music or art.
While large districts lost students in the 1970s as middle class families left big cities for the suburbs, districts are losing students now for a variety of reasons. The economy and home foreclosure crisis drove some families from one school system into another. Hundreds of children from immigrant families have left districts in Arizona and California as their parents have lost jobs. Legal crackdowns have also prompted many families to return to their home countries.
In some cases, the collapse of housing prices has led homeowners to stay put, making it difficult for new families -- and new prospective students -- to move in and take their place.
But some say the schools are partly to blame. ''We have record-low confidence in our public schools,'' said Kevin Johnson, the mayor of Sacramento and head of education policy for the United States Conference of Mayors. (He is married to Michelle Rhee, the lightning rod former chancellor of the Washington public schools and now an advocate for data-driven reform). ''If we have high-quality choices in all neighborhoods, you don't have that exodus taking place,'' he said.
The rise of charter schools has accelerated some enrollment declines. The number of students fell about 5 percent in traditional public school districts between 2005 and 2010; by comparison, the number of students in all-charter districts soared by close to 60 percent, according to the Department of Education data. Thousands of students have moved into charter schools in districts with both traditional public and charter schools.
Although the total number of students in charter schools is just 5 percent of all public school children, it has had a striking effect in some cities. In Columbus, Ohio, for example, enrollment in city schools declined by more than 10 percent -- or about 6,150 students -- between 2005 and 2010, even as charter schools gained close to 9,000 students.
A year ago, Tanya Moton withdrew her daughter, Dy'Mon Starks, 12, from a public school and signed her up for Graham Expeditionary Middle School, a nearby charter school.
''The classes were too big, the kids were unruly and didn't pay attention to the teachers,'' Ms. Moton said of the former school.
She said she sought help for her daughter's dyslexia at her former school, but officials ''claimed that she didn't need it.'' After transferring to Graham, Ms. Moton said, ''one of the teachers stayed after school every Friday to help her.''
During the recession and weak recovery, pinched state financing and dwindling property taxes forced many public schools to shed teachers and cut programs.
''The fewer students we have, the fewer dollars we're getting'' from the state and federal government, said Matthew E. Stanski, chief financial officer of Prince George's County Public Schools in Maryland, where enrollment has fallen by almost 5 percent in five years, despite sharp gains in nearby counties.
Officials have laid off about 100 teachers and district employees, cut prekindergarten to half days and canceled some athletic programs, Mr. Stanski said.
In Los Angeles, the district has dismissed more than 8,500 teachers and other education workers in the last four years as enrollment fell by about 56,000 students. The Mesa Unified District, which lost 7,155 students between 2005 and 2010, has closed four middle schools in the last three years, delayed new textbook purchases, and laid off librarians.
The students left behind in some of these large districts are increasingly children with disabilities, in poverty or learning English as a second language.
Jeff Warner, a spokesman for the Columbus City Schools, said that enrollment appears to be stabilizing, but it can be difficult to compete against suburban and charter schools because of the district's higher proportion of students requiring special education services.
In Cleveland, where enrollment fell by nearly a fifth between 2005 and 2010, the number of students requiring special education services has risen from 17 percent of the student body to 23 percent, up from just under 14 percent a decade ago, according to the Cleveland Metropolitan School District.
Such trends alarm those who worry about the increasing inequity in schools. ''I see greater stratification and greater segregation,'' said Randi Weingarten, president of the American Federation of Teachers.
Educators are concerned that a vicious cycle will set in. Some of the largest public school systems in the country are in danger of becoming ''the schools that nobody wants,'' said Jeffrey Mirel, an education historian at the University of Michigan.
Jeanmarie Hedges, a mother of two teenage sons, moved her family out of Prince George's County two years ago because the proportion of students passing standardized tests was much lower than in neighboring Charles County, Md.
Ms. Hedges said she was also driven by fear of violence in the school. ''Some of our friends went there and they were beaten up a lot,'' she said.
A. Duane Arbogast, acting deputy superintendent for academics in Prince George's County, said he recognized the challenge of persuading families to send their children to public schools.
''We simply have to get better and provide an education that people of all social classes would be proud of,'' said Mr. Arbogast, who cited a new health sciences academy and a planned performing arts high school in his district.
But declining enrollment can force tough trade-offs. ''If you want to offer Spanish but you only have 80 kids taking Spanish, then your cost per pupil'' is larger than if you have 500 in Spanish classes, said Jonathan Travers, director at Education Resource Strategies, a nonprofit consulting group that helps school systems adjust to changes in enrollment.
Before the Mesa district closed Brimhall Junior High School this year, the school lost teachers in art, music and technology in part because of a declining student head count. That made it harder for the school, which faces competition from many charter schools, to attract students.
''Education has gotten to be almost a sales job,'' said Susan Chard, who taught seventh grade math at Brimhall for 18 years. ''You want to provide reasons for parents to bring their children to your school.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tanya Moton moved her daughter, Dy'Mon Starks, 12, to a charter school in Columbus, Ohio. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TY WILLIAM WRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Susan Chard taught in the Mesa, Ariz., school district for 18 years before her school was closed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) CHARTS: Greatest Declines in Enrollment: Enrollment in half of the 100 largest public school districts in the United States has declined. Below are the 10 districts with the greatest percentage decrease in enrollment between 2005-6 and 2009-10. (Source: U.S. Department of Education) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); CLOSINGS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (74%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); SUBURBS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); IMMIGRATION (66%); MAYORS (66%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (64%); FORECLOSURE (64%); HOME PRICES (63%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (92%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (90%); SAN BERNARDINO, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



889 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Will Drought Cause The Next Blackout?

BYLINE: By MICHAEL E. WEBBER. 
Michael E. Webber is an assistant professor of mechanical engineering and the associate director of the Center for International Energy and Environmental Policy at the University of Texas, Austin.

 BODY:
Austin, Tex.
WE'RE now in the midst of the nation's most widespread drought in 60 years, stretching across 29 states and threatening farmers, their crops and livestock. But there is another risk as water becomes more scarce. Power plants may be forced to shut down, and oil and gas production may be threatened.
Our energy system depends on water. About half of the nation's water withdrawals every day are just for cooling power plants. In addition, the oil and gas industries use tens of millions of gallons a day, injecting water into aging oil fields to improve production, and to free natural gas in shale formations through hydraulic fracturing. Those numbers are not large from a national perspective, but they can be significant locally. 
All told, we withdraw more water for the energy sector than for agriculture. Unfortunately, this relationship means that water problems become energy problems that are serious enough to warrant high-level attention.
During the 2008 drought in the Southeast, power plants were within days or weeks of shutting down because of limited water supplies. In Texas today, some cities are forbidding the use of municipal water for hydraulic fracturing. The multiyear drought in the West has lowered the snowpack and water levels behind dams, reducing their power output. The United States Energy Information Administration recently issued an alert that the drought was likely to exacerbate challenges to California's electric power market this summer, with higher risks of reliability problems and scarcity-driven price increases.
And in the Midwest, power plants are competing for water that farmers want for their devastated corn crops.
Unfortunately, trends suggest that this water vulnerability will become more important with time.
Population growth will mean over 100 million more people in the United States over the next four decades who will need energy and water to survive and prosper. Economic growth compounds that trend, as per-capita energy and water consumption tend to increase with affluence. Climate-change models also suggest that droughts and heat waves may be more frequent and severe.
Thankfully, there are some solutions.
The government can collect, maintain and make available accurate, updated and comprehensive water data, possibly through the United States Geological Survey and the E.I.A. The E.I.A. maintains an extensive database of accurate, up-to-date and comprehensive information on energy production, consumption, trade and price. Unfortunately, there is no equivalent set of data for water. Consequently, industry, investors, analysts, policy makers and planners lack the information they need to make informed decisions about power plant siting or cooling technologies.
The government should also invest in water-related research and development (spending has been pitifully low for decades) to seek better air-cooling systems for power plants, waterless techniques for hydraulic fracturing, and biofuels that do not require freshwater irrigation.
We should encourage the use of reclaimed water for irrigation, industry and the cooling of equipment at industrial operations like smelters and petrochemical complexes. These steps typically spare a significant amount of energy and cost. The use of dry and hybrid wet-dry cooling towers that require less water should be encouraged at power plants, since not all of them need wet cooling all the time. As power plants upgrade their cooling methods to ones that are less water-intensive, these operations can save significant volumes of water.
Most important, conservation should be encouraged, since water conservation results in energy conservation, and vice versa.
New carbon emissions standards can also help save water. A plan proposed by the Obama administration (requiring new power plants to emit no more than 1,000 pounds of carbon dioxide per megawatt hour generated) would encourage utilities to choose less carbon- and water-intensive fuels. Conventional coal plants, which are very thirsty, exceed the standards proposed by the president. But relatively clean, and water-lean, power plants that use wind, solar panels and natural gas combined cycle, would meet them. Thus, by enforcing CO2 limits, a lot of water use can be avoided.
Because rivers and aquifers can span many states (or countries), because there is no alternative to water, and because water represents a critical vulnerability for our energy system, governments at all levels have a stake in working with industry to find solutions. The downsides of doing nothing -- more blackouts -- are too serious to ignore.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAXWELL HOLYOKE-HIRSCH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DROUGHT (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (91%); POWER PLANTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TRENDS (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CLIMATOLOGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); BIOMASS (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); WATER CONSUMPTION (77%); ENERGY SITING (77%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); CORN FARMING (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (72%); IRRIGATION (71%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); WATER QUALITY (68%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (64%); BIOFUELS (64%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (64%)

ORGANIZATION: ENERGY INFORMATION ADMINISTRATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



890 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: DealBook Online

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS, MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and AZAM AHMED

 BODY:
LIBOR INQUIRY Congress widened its inquiry into the interest-rate manipulation scandal, pressing the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to further disclose its knowledge of the multiyear scheme. 
On Monday, Representative Randy Neugebauer, left, the chairman of the oversight panel of the House Financial Services Committee, sent a letter to the New York Fed, demanding details of its communication with employees of all 16 banks that help set the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, which affects the trillions of dollars in mortgages and other loans. BEN PROTESS
RAILROAD MERGER Genesee & Wyoming agreed on Monday to buy one of its main rivals, RailAmerica, for about $1.4 billion in cash, uniting two of the country's biggest short-line rail operators.
Under the terms of the deal, Genesee & Wyoming will pay $27.50 a share, nearly 11 percent above RailAmerica's closing price on Friday. The combined company will run 111 railroads covering more than 15,120 miles of track. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
NEW DIRECTION Scott Ferguson is leaving Pershing Square Capital Management, the hedge fund run by William A. Ackman, left, at the end of the month with plans to begin his own hedge fund next year.
He was the first analyst Mr. Ackman had hired at Pershing Square, and was the first investment team partner at the hedge fund. AZAM AHMED
and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
TAKING OVER Joh. A. Benckiser said on Monday that it would buy Peet's Coffee and Tea for about $973.9 million in cash, taking control of one of America's oldest purveyors of specialty coffee.
Under terms of the deal, Benckiser, the German conglomerate, will pay $73.50 a share, nearly 29 percent above Peet's closing price on Friday. MICHAEL J. de la MERCED
nytimes.com/dealbook

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MERGERS (75%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (92%); GENESEE & WYOMING INC (57%); JOH A BENCKISER SE (54%); PEET'S COFFEE & TEA INC (54%)

TICKER: GWR (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (92%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (92%); NAICS482112 SHORT LINE RAILROADS (57%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4013 RAILROAD SWITCHING & TERMINAL ESTABLISHMENTS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (54%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (54%); NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (54%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS111411 MUSHROOM PRODUCTION (54%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (54%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (54%); SIC2095 ROASTED COFFEE (54%)

PERSON: RANDY NEUGEBAUER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



891 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Spain's Plight Helps Depress Global Stocks And the Euro

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUSER; Raphael Minder and Liz Alderman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Global stocks fell Monday and the euro dropped to its lowest level in two years as concerns about Spain's financing problems plagued markets anew.
Amid the volatility, investors shifted money to what they saw as havens, sending Treasury interest rates to record lows.
The main impetus for the financial market sell-off seemed to be the fact that Spain's borrowing costs hit a record level, on investor concerns that a deepening recession and the financial strains on its regions might eventually lead the government to seek a Greek-style bailout from Europe. 
Those worries were hardly eased by new signs that Greece's bailout may not be working so well.
A chief worry again is that Europe, which has already spent or pledged about 270 billion euro, or $327 billion, trying to rescue tiny Greece, would be hard-pressed to find the money to save an economy the size of Spain's, the euro zone's fourth-largest after those of Germany, France and Italy.
As stocks began falling Monday, market regulators in Spain and Italy stepped in to impose temporary bans on so-called short sales of stocks -- bets against the market that can turn a dip into a plunge. The regulators' move may have helped keep the bottom from falling out on the Madrid and Milan exchanges, but European stocks still had their worst day in three months. And the euro currency hit a two-year low against the dollar.
Phil Orlando, chief equity market strategist at Federated Investors, said that the ''first domino'' fell in Asia, amid concerns about the fiscal and monetary policy in China and whether that country was done with interest rate cuts. In the United States, earnings were not encouraging and gross domestic product was forecast to be lower than the previous number, Mr. Orlando added.
''There were no pockets of good news,'' he said.
On Wall Street, the Dow Jones industrial average dropped 101.11 points, or 0.8 percent, to close at 12,721.46, after trading down nearly 240 points early. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.14 points or 0.9 percent, to 1,350.52, while the Nasdaq composite index lost 35.15 points, or 1.2 percent to close at 2,890.15.
In Europe, the Euro Stoxx 50 index declined 2.6 percent. The Spanish IBEX lost 1.1 percent, the DAX in Germany fell 3.2 percent and the CAC 40 in France declined by 2.9 percent.
Joseph Saluzzi, co-head of equity trading at Themis Trading, said it was hard, amid trading dominated by computers, to pinpoint what had made Wall Street trim its losses. ''The sellers came out early,'' he said.
But even if the indexes had closed higher, Mr. Saluzzi said, ''I would not say it is a victory for the bulls. There is certainly a lot of bad news out there.''
In the bond market, the increased demand for the United States securities sent the price of the 10-year Treasury note up 6/32, to 102 27/32, while its yield fell to 1.44 percent, from 1.46 percent late Friday. Earlier on Monday, the 10-year note hit a record low of 1.40 percent. Other maturities, including the 30-year bond, also touched record lows.
Bruce McCain, the chief investment strategist of Key Private Bank, said that the markets were sending a ''flight to quality'' message, and with ''Europe again melting down,'' the focus was on safety and preservation.
''In general, most of our conversations with clients are focused on preserving principal,'' he said.
As money shifted into Treasury securities, investors sold off euros for dollars. The euro fell to $1.2134 on Monday, from $1.2156 late Friday.
''With the severe fundamental problems in the European markets and slowing in U.S., China and the rest of the world, this is not the time to take heroic risks,'' Mr. McCain said. ''We have seen a waning of the optimism in the market.''
He noted that corporate earnings in the United States had generally been beating expectations but that forecasts had been revised lower. ''There is not a whole lot to stem the tide,'' he said.
Citing the ''rising uncertainty regarding the outcome of the euro area debt crisis,'' Moody's cut the outlook late Monday for the triple-A credit of Germany, Luxembourg and the Netherlands to negative from stable.
Earlier, Italy said its short-selling ban would be imposed for a week on all types of stocks, while Spain said its ban would last three months. The Spanish regulating agency said that ''the situation of extreme volatility across the European markets could interfere with their smooth functioning and the normal course of their activities.''
In short-selling, investors sell borrowed shares at one price and hope to repay them with shares they subsequently buy at a lower price. The tactic has been blamed for accelerating market plunges in past crises -- as when American regulators in the September 2008 financial crisis temporarily banned short sales of financial stocks.
Last August, Spain was one of four euro countries -- with Italy, France and Belgium -- that temporarily banned short sales of financial stocks. Spain's ban lasted until February, and when it was lifted bank shares initially fell. But prices stabilized as Spanish banks were at least temporarily buoyed by a program of cheap three-year loans that the European Central Bank provided at the time.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); EURO CRISIS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); GREEK DEBT CRISIS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); MONETARY POLICY (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%)

COMPANY: FEDERATED INVESTORS INC (54%)

TICKER: FII (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (54%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) EUROPE (94%); SPAIN (94%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (92%); GREECE (88%); CHINA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



892 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: Give Treasury Its Proper Role on the National Security Council

BYLINE: By ROBERT M. KIMMITT. 
Robert M. Kimmitt, a former deputy Treasury secretary, under secretary of state and ambassador to Germany, served on the National Security Council staff from 1976 to 1985, under Presidents Gerald R. Ford, Jimmy Carter and Ronald Reagan.

 BODY:
THE National Security Act of 1947, which created the National Security Council, the Defense Department, the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Central Intelligence Agency, turns 65 on Thursday. But it's not ready for retirement; it needs, instead, to be rejuvenated by making the Treasury secretary a statutory member of the National Security Council, rather than an invited attendee.
The act and the organizations it created performed well during the cold war, the post-cold-war decade and the period after 9/11. But they need to be updated to recognize the close connection between security and economic issues as we look forward from the global financial crisis of the last few years. The concept of national security has broadened considerably since the N.S.C.'s early decades, elevating economic and financial issues to crucial elements to our nation's security, alongside the traditional diplomatic and military issues. Diplomatic and military issues are still important, of course. Iran, Syria and North Korea make that clear. But the growth areas in national security policy are economic and financial. 
During the cold war, the German chancellor, Helmut Kohl, knew with precision the throw-weights of American nuclear weapons based in Germany; today, Chancellor Angela Merkel has to know with equal precision the spreads on Spanish and Italian sovereign debt.
It may seem odd that the Treasury secretary would have been left off the list of statutory members of the National Security Council by the generation of American leaders who helped lay the groundwork for Western Europe's postwar revival with the Bretton Woods conference and the Marshall Plan. But at the time, military, diplomatic and economic policies were seen as largely separate tracks. And as the cold war deepened, the military challenge from the Soviet Union assumed overwhelming importance.
This is where the National Security Act has not kept pace. The statutory members of the National Security Council are still the president, vice president, secretary of state and secretary of defense, with the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the director of national intelligence as statutory advisers. This is a good, but incomplete, team. Even though the Obama White House says that Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is a regular attendee, along with the statutory members, it is now time to add the secretary of the Treasury to the list of statutory members. That would ensure that the economic and financial dimensions of national security challenges are given equal weight in council deliberations, now and into the future.
In recent administrations, the Treasury secretary has, in fact, frequently been invited to join N.S.C. meetings, and the Treasury has recently played an important role, especially regarding financial sanctions against Iran, Syria and North Korea. But today's broader economic and financial issues are too important for Treasury to attend N.S.C. meetings only when invited. That arrangement leaves too much to chance.
An example: in the waning days of the George W. Bush administration in the fall of 2008, an N.S.C. meeting was convened to discuss the deteriorating security situation in Pakistan. After sobering briefings by the secretaries of state and defense, I (as Treasury invitee) reported an even more serious financial development: Pakistan's foreign currency reserves had just fallen below the amount required to pay for two months' worth of critical imports, pushing the country toward a severe balance of payments crisis. The outlook was for food and fuel shortages, followed by street demonstrations and riots -- a scenario ripe for exploitation by extremist groups.
The conversation at the meeting quickly shifted to how to deal with this acute problem. The result was short-term financial support from the World Bank and Asian Development Bank and a donors' conference that followed, early in the Obama administration. Had someone from Treasury not been asked to attend that N.S.C. meeting, the situation in Pakistan might have accelerated into a crisis that would have been much more difficult to resolve.
There are other reasons to add the secretary of the Treasury to the N.S.C. The Group of 20, for which the Treasury secretary is the primary cabinet-level contact, is now the most influential organization in setting global financial and economic policies; the finance ministers of the other Group of 20 countries, who are the Treasury secretary's counterparts, are the cabinet-level officials who deal most directly with American requests for financial cooperation on common security interests; and the finance ministers, who are frequently the most important cabinet members in parliamentary democracies, often ascend to lead their countries. Examples are Prime Minister Manmohan Singh in India, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda in Japan, former President Nicolas Sarkozy of France and former Prime Minister Gordon Brown of Britain.
There are, of course, other officials integral to international economic and financial success, like the secretary of commerce and the United States trade representative. They should still be invited to N.S.C. meetings. But the Treasury secretary, who has primary authority on economic and financial issues in the cabinet, should be at every meeting to advise on how economic and security issues intersect, and to ensure that the United States is using its economic and financial strength in the most effective way.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); COLD WAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (53%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (94%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (55%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



893 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1343 words

HEADLINE: Save Kilowatts, Win a Prize

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
With temperatures hovering near a sweaty 100 degrees in recent weeks, the nation's electric utilities have been taking to Facebook and Twitter, urging customers to conserve energy in the hopes of avoiding blackouts and other strains on the system.
At Duke Energy, the country's largest utility after its merger with Progress Energy, the effort has included something beyond the usual messages to turn down the air-conditioner. The company is promoting a series of Web videos featuring a fictitious girl named Shannon who appears with her family, the Powers, to dispense energy-saving advice.
''This summer, why not use a clothesline to dry your clothes instead of a dryer?'' Shannon, also known as Bossy Pants, suggests while pinning up the family wash in a clip promoted recently on Youtility, Duke's Facebook page for energy efficiency. ''You'll save a lot on your energy bill and your clothes will come out nice and fresh.''
The series, started last summer, is just one way that Duke and other electric companies across the country are trying to use social media, competitive games and Big Brotherish data analysis to push customers to buy less of the electricity they sell. 
While it seems counterintuitive for utilities to discourage use of their product, it actually makes financial sense as they face government mandates to encourage more energy conservation and deal with the rising cost and difficulty of building power plants and distribution systems.
So in Chicago, a household that uses a lot of electricity might receive a mailing showing that more energy-efficient neighbors wash their clothes in cold water, along with a coupon for Tide Coldwater detergent. In Texas, customers can compete to be named the Biggest Energy Saver and get a shot at winning new appliances, home improvement gift cards or $5,000 to put toward a wind turbine. And outside Boston, customers earn points for saving energy that they can redeem for meals at local restaurants or a $10 discount at Whole Foods.
Motivating people to save energy isn't really about the money, behavior experts say. Successful programs foster a sense of achievement and identity. And competing to beat your friends and neighbors at the savings game doesn't hurt.
Many of these programs are still in their infancy, and it remains to be seen whether a significant number of customers want to work with their utility companies over energy savings; most customers become interested in their electricity only when it doesn't work, executives and experts say. The Duke Youtility page, for instance, has fewer than 3,300 ''likes,'' and most of the recent comments complain about power failures, rate increases and the company's troubled merger with Progress Energy.
But utilities hope to tap into the same dynamic that works for video games and applications like Foursquare, where users compete against one another to earn bragging rights, like becoming ''mayor'' of a favorite restaurant.
Opower, a leading home energy management company, has shown promising results with its keeping-up-with-the-Joneses approach, sending people reports on how their electricity use compares with households in their neighborhoods -- complete with a smiley face, or two, depending on how they stack up. The company has created an app with Facebook and the Natural Resources Defense Council that can load a user's energy data and allow people to compete with their friends and family.
Soon, said Daniel Yates, a co-founder of Opower, customers of the roughly 75 utilities he works with will be able to earn electronic badges saying things like ''Congratulations: You are an energy saver'' for cutting their bills.
While it might sound hokey, the strategy works. Tom Lyons, a customer of Pacific Gas and Electric in San Jose, Calif., said Opower's feedback was reinforcing. ''You're getting some nourishment or some reward from the energy report and the smiley faces,'' he said.
When his conservation efforts slip, he said, it makes him dig for the reason: extra company that month, working more from home or his daughter having a couple of sleepovers ''where they were yakking, watching TV with all the lights on in the room until 3 a.m.''
States and utilities have run conservation programs for decades, with some success. Many households have compact fluorescent bulbs, Energy Star-rated appliances and even programmable thermostats.
But the current efforts are aimed at helping customers to change their habits as well.
''I think we've transcended the equipment and the shell of the house, and now we're talking about the how,'' said Tom Baron, senior program manager for residential energy efficiency at National Grid, an electric and gas utility in the Northeast. ''Not, 'What in my house uses energy?' but, 'How do I use it?' ''
The need to find ways to encourage long-term conservation is ever more critical, utility executives and efficiency experts say. At least 25 states have set specific goals for reductions in energy use that in many cases will continue to increase even as electrical demands and the grid's complexity keep growing.
In 2010, the total budget for utility customer energy efficiency programs was $4.6 billion, up more than four times from the $1.1 billion spent on such programs a decade earlier, according to the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy. The vast potential of the energy efficiency market has spurred interest in home energy management from major companies like Verizon and Comcast as well as a fleet of start-ups.
But getting people to care about their electricity and work with their utilities is a battle. Electricity is ''boring and it's cheap,'' said Alex Laskey, an Opower co-founder. Many efforts have already foundered: Microsoft, Google and Cisco Systems have pulled back from their ventures, and Tendril, a start-up that works with utilities including Southern California Edison and Con Ed, lost two executives and cut its staff in May, as it raised money to finance its operations.
Part of the challenge is that while most people see saving money as a good thing, it is not enough by itself to change habits in the long term. The average household spends about 2 percent of its income on electricity, so a 10 percent reduction in power use doesn't add up to much, Mr. Laskey said.
Instead, people can be motivated by more emotional factors, like the sense of achievement that comes from setting and reaching goals or one-upping a neighbor, or the sense of belonging that comes from mimicking friends or participating in a communitywide challenge.
Nonetheless, a little financial reward, coupled with a clear display of energy savings, can be just the nudge customers need.
One program managed by C3, a company that contracts with utilities to run loyalty programs, awards participants two points for every kilowatt-hour less in electricity they use each month compared with the year before they joined. Customers can redeem the points for gift cards or discounts at places like Staples and Amazon.com, or local restaurants and shops. The company uses demographic and behavioral information to present specific offers to customers -- discounts on school supplies in the fall to households with children, for instance, said Tom Scaramellino, senior vice president and general manager of C3.
Mark Lattanzi, who has been in the program for about a year through the Western Massachusetts Electric Company, said he had shaved about a third off his bill, through replacing his old electric water heater and a range of small behavior changes like turning off the lights and using the clothesline. It helps, he said, to receive an automatic monthly e-mail that shows how his electricity use compares with the same month in his baseline year.
And the rewards points are an incentive, too. Mr. Lattanzi has already earned a $10 gift card for Whole Foods and is waiting to use the rest at restaurants that are joining the program.
''Restaurants that I already go to are giving me discounts and gift cards because I saved a little money on my electric bill?'' he said. ''That's a win-win.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Mark Lattanzi said he shaved about a third off his utility bill after joining an program in Massachusetts to track electricity use. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW CAVANAUGH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Tom Lyons, a homeowner who joined an energy efficiency incentive program in San Jose, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); POWER FAILURES (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); WIND POWER PLANTS (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (73%); TOYS & GAMES (71%); COMPUTER GAMES (66%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (64%); RESTAURANTS (61%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (58%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (58%); DUK (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (69%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (69%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



894 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Drama League Plans A Home for Itself

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER

 BODY:
The Drama League, a fixture on and around Broadway for nearly a century, is moving to a home of its own in TriBeCa, the group announced on Monday. The new Drama League Theater Center will be located at 32 Avenue of the Americas, on the lobby level of the former AT&T building, and is scheduled to open toward the end of this year. 
Gabriel Shanks, the executive director of the Drama League, described the move as the primary element in a ''wholesale transformation'' of the group, founded in 1916. The new space will allow the league to beef up existing programs, like its long-established program for young directors, as well as expand into new undertakings.
''Our current programing is going to grow five or six fold because we have the space, the ability, to do so,'' Mr. Shanks said. As examples of activities likely to benefit from the move, he mentioned artist residencies, play readings, workshops, open rehearsals and all sorts of classes, seminars and conferences. ''In 2013, we're going to be launching an educational curriculum, something we've never really been able to do before,'' he said. Plans call for the Drama League Theater Center to include a laboratory and development space in which theater artists will be able to create and polish work for presentation elsewhere. The TriBeCa location, in the same building where the Tribeca Film Festival and the choreographer and composer Meredith Monk have offices, will also encourage interaction with theater companies and other arts groups in that neighborhood, Mr. Shanks said.
The group began seriously considering a move to a home of its own about a year and a half ago, Mr. Shanks said, and had even before then been ''putting away cash for a rainy day'' in anticipation of such an opportunity. When a member of the league's board, Samantha Rudin, a member of a family long prominent in New York City real estate, heard that space in a landmark building had become available, that pushed the discussion from the theoretical to a concrete analysis of the economics of a move, which concluded that the increased cost would be slight and manageable.
''Because we don't have space of our own and work nomadically, we have been spending a significant amount of money on other people's spaces,'' he said.
''When we realized we could have our own home for the same amount, and be 24 hours a day dedicated to our mission, it ended up making sense pretty fast for us. We'll always have a relationship to Broadway, but people need our help in other parts of New York now,'' he added. ''In one fell swoop, this allows us to work with everybody, so it's more an expansion than a trade.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); THEATER (78%); FILM (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); THEATER COMPANIES (73%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); CHOREOGRAPHY (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); FESTIVALS (69%); CURRICULA (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (86%) UNITED STATES (86%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



895 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Ovation) E.T. THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL (1982) An alien from a distant planet befriends a 10-year-old boy, Elliott (Henry Thomas, above), in suburban California after being left behind by his spaceship in this enchanted fantasy from Steven Spielberg. Soon enough, government agents are after them both, prompting creature and child to devise a way for E. T. to ''phone home.'' This film won Oscars for best sound effects editing, visual effects, sound and original score (for John Williams), and received five more nominations, including for best director and best picture. Although Vincent Canby, who reviewed the movie for The New York Times, made it a Critics' Pick, he wrote that ''at the end of the film, there is an all-out assault on the emotions that depends, it seems, more on the rising volume of this music than on the events portrayed. He added, '' 'E. T.' is good enough not to have to resort to such tricks.'' 
8 A.M. (CUNY) SCIENCE & U! This newsmagazine explores urban farming in Greenpoint, Brooklyn; the addictive properties of chocolate with the confectioner Jacques Torres; foraging in Central Park with the naturalist Steve Brill; and molecular gastronomy in the home kitchen. (Repeated at 2 and 8 p.m.)
3:15 P.M. (MoreMax) BEND IT LIKE BECKHAM (2003) A British teenager named Jess (Parminder Nagra, below left, with Keira Knightley) finds her dreams of soccer stardom clashing with the wishes of her traditional Sikh family in this sports comedy from Gurinder Chadha. Ms. Knightley is Jules, who persuades Jess, her best friend, to train with a local soccer club. Jonathan Rhys Meyers is the coach with whom Jules and Jess are smitten. ''The title, and some of the local dialect, may require a bit of translation, but the film's warm-and-fuzzy amalgam of multiculturalism and feminism will look very familiar indeed,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times. ''It is stuffed to bursting with affectionate stereotypes and the sticky, somewhat oppressive Gemutlichkeit that is the hallmark, at least on screen, of immigrant families, wherever they come from and wherever they reside.''
8 P.M. (13, 49) HISTORY DETECTIVES Wes Cowan searches for the identity of a man whose name is engraved on a rare matched set of Civil War-era pistols. Tukufu Zuberi investigates the story behind a 78 r.p.m. recording distributed by K.K.K. Records that contains songs titled ''The Bright Fiery Cross'' and ''The Jolly Old Klansman.'' And Eduardo Pagan tries to prove that the Motown bass player James Jamerson really owned a battered Ampeg B-15 amp so that the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland will display it. At 9, Elyse Luray talks with the country singer Clint Black about his book of ''Wanted'' posters. And Mr. Pagan tries to link a chunk of metal to the B-52 bomber that crashed into the Empire State Building in 1945.
8 P.M. (TCM) STAR OF THE MONTH: LESLIE HOWARD This monthlong tribute to Howard, below, who is mostly remembered as the aristocratic and melancholy Ashley Wilkes in ''Gone With the Wind'' (1939), continues with ''Pygmalion'' (1938), which he directed (with Anthony Asquith) and stars in as the linguistics professor Henry Higgins, who bets he can turn a flower girl (Wendy Hiller) into a lady by teaching her to speak properly. In ''Berkeley Square'' (1933), Frank Lloyd's fantasy romance, at 9:45, Howard time travels between 1784 and 1933 as a wealthy American who arrives in London to court a distant cousin (Valerie Taylor). In ''Devotion'' (1931), at 11:15, Howard, playing a lawyer, inspires the love of a wallflower (Ann Harding) who disguises herself as a dowdy matron to win a job as his son's governess. And in ''The Animal Kingdom'' (1932), at 12:45 a.m., Howard and Harding team up again to play a Connecticut publisher and his freewheeling former love.
8 P.M. (Discovery) DEADLIEST CATCH In this two-hour edition the opilio season ends, a veteran deckhand pays for an error with his flesh, and not everyone makes it back home.
9 P.M. (USA) WHITE COLLAR Peter (Tim DeKay) and Neal (Matt Bomer) track a thief who has escaped detection by the F.B.I. for years. In ''Covert Affairs,'' at 10, Auggie (Christopher Gorham) encounters trouble while visiting Parker (Devin Kelley) in Africa, forcing Annie (Piper Perabo), Joan (Kari Matchett) and Lena (Sarah Clarke) to work together to bring him home safely.
10 P.M. (OWN) OUR AMERICA WITH LISA LING In ''The Lost American Dream'' Ms. Ling explores the effect of the economic downturn on middle-class families. KATHRYN SHATTUCK
Correction: July 25, 2012, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry in the ''What's On Today'' television highlights in some editions on Tuesday about the program ''History Detectives'' misidentified the military plane that crashed into the Empire State Building in 1945. It was a B-25 bomber, not a B-52.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 25, 2012

 CORRECTION:
 An entry in the ''What's On Today'' television highlights in some editions on Tuesday about the program ''History Detectives'' misidentified the military plane that crashed into the Empire State Building in 1945. It was a B-25 bomber, not a B-

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (76%); FILM (76%); CELEBRITIES (75%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (75%); POP & ROCK (72%); SOCCER (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (58%); KEIRA KNIGHTLEY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



896 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 343 words

HEADLINE: The Ad Campaign: New Approach From Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
7:26 p.m. Updated In a new television ad, President Obama speaks directly into the camera to present what he says is a big choice facing voters when they go to the polls in November. 
The ad, which his campaign says will run in nine battleground states, is different in tone from many of the previous commercials from Mr. Obama and his rival, Mitt Romney.
Rather than use flashy graphics, ominous-sounding narrators or clever editing, the ad shows Mr. Obama arguing that the election comes down to a choice.
''Not just between two political parties or even two people. It's a choice between two very different plans for our country,'' Mr. Obama says. ''Sometimes politics can seem very small. But the choice you face, it couldn't be bigger.''
The ad comes after weeks in which Mr. Obama's campaign and his Democratic allies have been hammering Mr. Romney's corporate experience and his personal finances.
The commercial is critical of Mr. Romney's economic approach; the president says it was what ''caused the mess in the first place.'' But the bulk of the ad is a plea for votes on behalf of what Mr. Obama calls his desire to ''create an economy built to last'' by strengthening the middle class.
The Romney campaign continued its criticism of the president.
''President Obama believes that government creates jobs, not hard-working entrepreneurs and small-business owners,'' said Amanda Henneberg, Romney spokeswoman. ''Not only are his 'you didn't build that' comments insulting to job creators, but they also reflect how unqualified he is to lead our country toward an economic recovery. Instead of meeting with his Jobs Council, he is busy holding fund-raisers, playing golf and trying to tear down Mitt Romney. Mitt Romney will never be too busy to focus on jobs and the economy and it will be his top priority as president.''
According to the Obama campaign, the new ad will run in Colorado, Florida, Iowa, North Carolina, New Hampshire, Nevada, Ohio, Pennsylvania, and Virginia.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); JOB CREATION (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); FUNDRAISING (72%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); MITT ROMNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



897 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Afghan Cabinet Raises Concern About Mining Legislation, to West's Unease

BYLINE: By MATTHEW ROSENBERG; Alissa J. Rubin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
KABUL, Afghanistan -- For Afghan mining officials and their Western advisers, revamping the Afghan laws that cover mining and oil drilling looked like an easy sell with a big payoff: new rules would give foreign investors certainty and, in the process, begin transforming Afghanistan from a ward of the international community into a state that could better pay its own way.
Instead, the new laws are now in limbo after a group of Afghan cabinet ministers and senior officials last week objected to the draft legislation as kowtowing to foreign mining interests eager to hijack Afghanistan's natural resources. ''A balance has to be struck so we can make sure that our patrimony does not become a pot of porridge for others,'' said Ashraf Ghani, a senior adviser to President Hamid Karzai.
With the end of the NATO military mission in Afghanistan looming in 2014, the dispute over the legislation reflects growing Afghan unease over how steep a price their country -- among the world's poorest and most corrupt -- may have to pay for outside help in the future. 
Exploiting Afghanistan's potentially rich deposits of iron, oil, gold, copper and other minerals and gemstones is seen as crucial to the country's economic prospects, and, by extension, the West's ability to cut back over the next decade the billions of dollars spent each year on the government, the army, the police and myriad development projects.
Afghanistan's big international backers -- the United States, Germany, Japan, among others -- were so certain the laws would soon be in place that this month they made $16 billion in aid commitments for the coming four years based in part on projections of future mining revenues the Afghan government could expect.
The cabinet's rejection of the draft legislation in a special session on Wednesday caught Western diplomats in Kabul off guard. ''We did not know it was going to cabinet last week,'' Ryan C. Crocker, the American ambassador in Kabul, said in an interview. ''We're still playing catch-up.''
But he added that the Afghans were worried about being taken advantage of and wary of suffering the fate of other states where mining has fueled instability. ''There has to be enough of an incentive to bring in the companies and yet enough assurance that they won't be taken for a ride,'' he said.
Mr. Karzai affirmed the cabinet's decision, saying in a statement on Monday that the Justice Ministry and other departments would review the laws to ensure they better protect ''the national interests of Afghanistan.'' That could delay new legislation by months, at least, sending Western officials scrambling to help Afghanistan's Ministry of Mines get the legislation back on track.
The immediate concern is that at least five open tenders -- four gold and copper concessions and one significant oil and gas project -- could attract far less lucrative bids than expected if Afghanistan's laws are not soon brought in line with global norms, Afghan mining officials and Western officials said.
Bidding on those concessions is expected to be completed before the end of the year. Among the companies expressing interest is ExxonMobil, by far the largest to seriously explore investing in Afghanistan.
If the expected revenue streams from mining are delayed or diminished, Afghanistan is ''going to need a lot more funding,'' said a Western diplomat in Kabul, who spoke on condition of anonymity.
''Are the publics in Europe and the United States going to have the interest in Afghanistan to make current aid levels feasible?'' the official continued. ''I don't think so.''
No one on either side of the disagreement over the new legislation disputes that Afghanistan needs the money mining could bring in. But ''we're being inundated by people who have a conflict of interest advising us,'' said Mr. Ghani, a former finance minister and World Bank official who is now overseeing the transition from a Western-led rebuilding effort to one run largely by the Afghan government.
''Will the advisers end up working for the very same companies that are investing?'' he said in a telephone interview. ''These are questions we need to ask in particular given the revolving-door culture in the United States and other international organizations.''
Mr. Ghani, who also taught at Johns Hopkins University, was careful to present his opposition to the draft legislation as a matter of getting Afghanistan the best deal from the foreign companies, whose money and expertise he acknowledged Afghanistan did need.
He also said care had to be taken to ensure mining and oil concessions did not become a source of conflict, as has happened in many countries, especially in Africa. Mining, he said, could turn Afghanistan ''into Chile, or it could turn us into Congo.''
The draft legislation is intended to update earlier laws written with World Bank assistance and passed in 2009. Those laws are seen by the mining industry as highly problematic -- they, for instance, give no guarantee that a company that conducts exploration would get to exploit what it found.
Afghanistan's commerce minister, Anwar-ul-Haq Ahady, said he understood the concerns, but was not comfortable being rushed into making a decision or with the level of foreign involvement in drafting the new laws.
''The previous law was written by experts from the World Bank, and they were all highly paid consultants. And now we have more highly paid consultants telling us we need new laws,'' he said. ''We just need to know why it needs to change.''
But other senior officials present at the cabinet meeting, most of them far less knowledgeable about finance and international development, were openly hostile to the idea that foreign companies would profit from Afghan mines or oil fields, according to Afghan and Western officials briefed on the discussions.
Why, asked a few of the ministers, should foreigners grow rich off Afghanistan's minerals, oil and gemstones? Couldn't Afghans do it themselves?
The short answer, according to Afghan mining officials and foreign experts: No. It has neither the money nor the expertise.
Attracting companies that can provide the needed capital and expertise, however, takes an open, transparent and predictable investing landscape, American and European officials said.
They insisted that their main goal was bringing Afghan laws and regulations up to international standards, not the mere pursuit of national self-interest.
''Obviously, we have U.S. companies that could be qualified bidders and we would obviously be really happy if they did bid,'' one American diplomat said. ''But you've got to have an environment in place where they want to bid -- our companies, other countries' companies, all companies.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Miners in western Afghanistan. Revenue from Afghanistan's natural resources is needed to help wean the country off foreign aid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HOSSEIN FATEMI, VIA EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); MINES & MINING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (56%)

PERSON: HAMAD KARZAI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (94%) AFGHANISTAN (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



898 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Voters Say They Are Wary Of Ads Made Just for Them

BYLINE: By TANZINA VEGA

 BODY:
POLITICAL campaigns may be able to show specific ads to specific voters online but they may want to tread lightly.
The results of a new study to be released on Tuesday by professors at the Annenberg School for Communication at the University of Pennsylvania show that 86 percent of respondents did not want political campaigns to tailor ads to their interests.
The results of the study come at a time when national and local political campaigns are steadily increasing their use of technology that traditional marketers use to tailor advertising. 
For political campaigns, the process is called microtargeting. Information about voters -- like the charitable donations they make, the type of credit card they use and the Congressional district they live in -- is combined with voter registration records, and the result allows campaigns to send certain types of messages to voters.
For example, one person may see an ad that focuses on a candidate's employment message while another will see an ad about reproductive rights. Both presidential campaigns use some form of microtargeting.
''The overall sense is that there is a real discontent about this,'' said Prof. Joseph Turow of the Annenberg School. ''You have a real disjuncture between the American public and the campaigns that are on a trajectory to increase it.''
It is not just discontent with the ads themselves that should concern politicians. Nearly two-thirds of respondents, 64 percent, said the likelihood of their voting for a candidate would decrease if that candidate purchased information about them and their neighbors for the purpose of sending them different messages.
The study was conducted this year by Princeton Survey Research Associates International from April 23 to May 6. It included cellphone and landline telephone interviews in English and Spanish with 1,503 adult Internet users in the continental United States.
The survey also examined attitudes toward political advertising on social media sites like Facebook. Seventy percent of respondents said the likelihood of their voting for a candidate they supported would decrease if the campaign used Facebook to send ads to the friends of someone who had ''liked'' a candidate's Facebook page.
''People take politics seriously,'' Professor Turow said. ''Even more seriously than advertising, discounts and news.''
In 2009, Professor Turow, with other professors from the University of Pennsylvania and the University of California, Berkeley, conducted a study that examined attitudes toward similar types of advertising used by traditional marketers. They found that about two-thirds of respondents objected to having their activities tracked online with the goal of sending them ads tailored to their interests.
Since then, the issue of online tracking in digital advertising has risen to the national stage. Industry groups like the Interactive Advertising Bureau, government agencies including the Federal Trade Commission, the Commerce Department and the White House, and privacy advocates have agreed to work together to satisfy both advertisers and users concerned about Internet privacy.
In March, the Federal Trade Commission issued a report on Internet privacy that called on Congress to enact legislation regulating companies known as data brokers, which collect and sell personal information to advertisers.
The commission also urged that technology companies offer a ''Do Not Track'' mechanism by the end of the year that would allow users to opt out of having their personal information collected online.
''Compliance with Do Not Track would be voluntary, so each entity, whether political or commercial, would make its own decision about whether to comply,'' Ed Felten, chief technologist at the commission, said in an e-mail.
A handful of personal interviews conducted with survey respondents showed mixed feelings about tailored political ads, and the collection and use of personal data.
Roman Kickirillo, 42, an engineer in Franklin, Tenn., described his attitude toward online advertising of all types as ''total indifference.'' Mr. Kickirillo said he would only be bothered by ads tailored to his specific political interests if the candidate's messages were contradictory.
''I might never find out that they were saying the opposite because they think that's exactly what I want to hear,'' he said.
Doug Sheaff, 77, a retiree who lives in Bristol, Va., said he would be concerned with how data was collected. ''As long as it's publicly accessible information that they are getting and they are able to tailor the message, I have no problem,'' Mr. Sheaff said. ''The other question is, are they building up a file on me.''
Carol Stewart, 49, who lives in New Boston, Tex., and is unemployed after getting ''caught up in the economic crisis,'' said she notices advertising of all types in e-mails, on Web sites and on the right-hand column of Facebook pages.
''You visit the site and they know everything about you,'' Ms. Stewart said. ''I don't like that.'' Ms. Stewart, who said she considers herself a Democrat, recalls seeing ads online for Mitt Romney but not for Barack Obama but that she has not clicked on the ads.
''When I got the discount card at the grocery store I knew they were going to track my habits,'' Ms. Stewart said. ''But these politicians out here? I didn't agree to let them into my life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A commercial by President Obama's campaign, above, and one for the presidential campaign of Mitt Romney. Both campaigns use the personal information of voters to shape some of their advertising. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OBAMA FOR AMERICA
 ROMNEY FOR PRESIDENT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (83%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CHARITIES (70%); INTERVIEWS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



899 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senators Face Risks Over Proposal on Tax Cuts

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate Republicans will press this week to extend tax cuts for affluent families scheduled to expire Jan. 1, but the same Republican tax plan would allow a series of tax cuts for the working poor and the middle class to end next year.
Republicans say the tax breaks for lower-income families -- passed with little notice in the extensive 2009 economic stimulus law -- were always supposed to be temporary. But President Obama had made them a priority in 2009 and demanded their extension in 2010 as a price for extending the Bush-era tax cuts for two years, and both the White House and Senate Democrats are determined to extend them again.
That sets up a potentially tricky issue for Republicans. They have said they do not want taxes to go up on anyone while the economy struggles to gain altitude, but under their plan, written by Senator Orrin G. Hatch of Utah, the senior Republican on the Finance Committee, about 13 million families would see their tax refunds reduced, and some would see their taxes increase. 
''Senator Hatch's amendment would extend tax breaks for the top 2 percent of Americans,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, who leads the Senate's Democratic majority, said this month. ''But it fails to extend a number of tax cuts that help middle-class families get by in a tough economy.''
The tax showdown is set for Wednesday, when the Senate will vote on whether to take up Democratic legislation to extend Bush-era middle-class tax cuts through 2013. The motion will need 60 votes to pass, and only if it gets those votes will Republicans be given a chance to vote on their alternative tax plan. The House will vote next week on a similar Republican plan that also allows the 2009 stimulus cuts to lapse.
''The president said if you pass the stimulus, unemployment would never go above 8 percent,'' said Representative Kevin McCarthy of California, the No. 3 House Republican. ''We've had a 41-month experience that that is not true and hasn't been effective. One thing Republicans have always said is that they want a form of accountability.''
Under the Democratic plan, tax rates on earnings over $250,000 would snap back to 36 percent and 39.6 percent, the rates paid during the Clinton presidency, from 33 percent and 35 percent. It would also allow the estate tax rate to jump to 55 percent on the value of inheritances over $1 million per individual, $2 million per couple. The current rate is 35 percent on estates over $5 million, $10 million a couple.
The Senate Democratic plan for the estate tax actually takes a bigger piece of qualifying estates than the proposal by President Obama, who wanted a 45 percent rate on inheritances of about $3.5 million, or $7 million per couple. It could cause as many political headaches for some moderate Democrats as the income tax expirations.
Between the income tax expirations, the estate tax provision and a business investment provision that Democrats would limit to small businesses, the Democratic plan would raise almost $82 billion more in taxes in 2013 than the Republican version. But the Democrats' claim to fiscal prudence may be undermined by their decision to maintain the stimulus law's tax breaks, which would cut those savings down to $55 billion.
Republican tax aides say the vast majority of the benefits Democrats are seeking to preserve are not tax cuts but checks written by the Internal Revenue Service and sent to the working poor. Given the huge increase in government aid, like food stamps and unemployment benefits, letting some assistance lapse makes sense, they say.
N. Gregory Mankiw, a former Bush White House economic aide and an adviser to Mitt Romney, said that a typical family in the lowest 20 percent of the income scale now receives $3 in government benefits for every $1 earned. Even the middle 20 percent receives slightly more in government largess than it pays in taxes, he said.
[Mr. Mankiw subsequently noted on his blog that the data he used, from the Congressional Budget Office, includes state and local benefits as well as federal benefits, but reflects only federal taxes. He said correcting this inconsistency might change his conclusions, but that the CBO does not provide the data to know for sure.]
''What happened to the failed stimulus being 'targeted, timely and temporary?' '' asked Antonia Ferrier, a spokeswoman for Senate Finance Committee Republicans. ''With our economy as weak as it is, stopping the president's massive tax increase on nearly a million small businesses and then overhauling our burdensome tax code is how we'll get America moving again. The same can't be said for keeping the expanded stimulus spending through the tax code.''
At issue are four measures from the stimulus law. One reduced the eligibility threshold to $3,000 in earned income for the child tax credit. Without it, the threshold will jump to $13,300 next year, costing nearly nine million families about $7.6 billion, an average of $854 a family, according to the liberal group Citizens for Tax Justice. But the hit could be considerably larger. Currently, a family with one full-time minimum wage earner and two children receives a total child tax credit of $1,812, almost equal to the full $2,000 credit middle-income families with two children receive, said David Harris, president of the Children's Research and Education Institute. If the stimulus provision lapses, that family's credit would drop to $267, a $1,545 loss.
The stimulus also enlarged the earned income credit for families with three or more children, reduced the ''marriage penalty'' on working poor couples by starting the earned income credit phaseout at a higher level for married earners, and expanded the middle-class tax deduction for higher-education tuition. The 2009 American Opportunity Tax Credit expanded the tax break for tuition, fees and educational expenses to $2,500 from about $1,800, and doubled the length of eligibility to four years of school from two. It also made the first $1,000 of the tuition credit refundable, meaning that a family without enough federal income tax liability could get a check from the I.R.S. to offset higher education costs.
In all, the Republican plan would extend tax cuts for 2.7 million affluent families while allowing tax breaks to expire for 13 million on the bottom of the income spectrum, tax analysts say. An impact analysis released Monday by Congress's Joint Committee on Taxation said a permanent extension of all the Bush-era tax cuts would cut taxes on households with more than $1 million of annual income by $74,505 next year. The Democratic proposal would cut taxes for those same households by $7,055.
Correction: August 4, 2012, Saturday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on July 24 about the Senate debate over extending tax cuts to people in various income brackets cited flawed information from N. Gregory Mankiw, a former Bush White House aide and an adviser to Mitt Romney. He had stated that a typical family in the lowest fifth of the income scale receives $3 in government benefits for every $1 earned, and that even the middle fifth receive slightly more than they pay in taxes. Mr. Mankiw subsequently noted on his blog that the data he used, from the Congressional Budget Office, includes state and local benefits as well as federal benefits, but reflects only federal taxes. He said correcting this inconsistency might change his conclusions, but that the budget office does not provide the data he would need to know for sure.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative Kevin McCarthy, left, the No. 3 House Republican, after a meeting at the Capitol on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN ERNST FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (92%); FAMILY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); ESTATE PLANNING (89%); ESTATE TAX (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); KEVIN MCCARTHY (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BILL CLINTON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 2012



900 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 220 words

HEADLINE: On Our Radar: Canadian Oil and China

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: British Columbia's premier says the environmental costs of the Northern Gateway pipeline project would outstrip any economic benefits. 

 BODY:
Taking issue with Canada's leaders and Alberta's provincial government, British Columbia's premier warns that the environmental risks of selling Canadian oil to Asia through the Northern Gateway pipeline would outweigh the economic benefits. [The Globe and Mail]
The Canadian oil and gas company Nexen agrees to be acquired by the China National Offshore Oil Company for $15.1 billion. The deal, which still faces a regulatory hurdle, is likely to be politically sensitive. [CBC]
Michael E. Mann, the Penn State climatologist, demands that The National Review publish a retraction of a blog post in which a writer compares the university's cover-up of Jerry Sandusky's actions to its inquiry clearing Dr. Mann of scientific misconduct. [Politico]
Alaska sues to block enforcement of federal rules intended to limit pollution from large ships, saying they will increase freight rates and cruise prices and hurt the state's economy. [Associated Press]
A Smithsonian scientist builds what is essentially a sperm bank for the world's corals, which are being damaged by acidification and global warming. [The New York Times]

        
On Our Radar: The Danube Ices Over
        
U.S. Oil Imports Shrink, Yet Worries Loom
        
On Our Radar: Record Salmon Run in British Columbia
        
The Environmental Risks of Arctic Shipping
        
Snapshots in Time: The Dynamics of Trees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (90%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MISCONDUCT (86%); POLITICS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); OIL & GAS PIPELINES (77%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); OIL SANDS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); IMPORT TRADE (66%); SPERM BANKS (52%) Air pollution; Alaska; british columbia; climate science; crude; mergers; Michael E. Mann; Nexen China; Oil Sands; shipping; The National Review; Breaking News; climate change; Oil; Politics and Policy; Transportation

COMPANY: CHINA NATIONAL OFFSHORE OIL CORP (57%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (57%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (57%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

PERSON: JERRY SANDUSKY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); ALBERTA, CANADA (92%); ALASKA, USA (92%) CANADA (96%); ASIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARCTIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



901 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 162 words

HEADLINE: Tuesday Reading: The Anxiety of Waiting for Test Results

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: The anxiety of waiting for medical test results, fees that obscure the cost of flying, an Alzheimer's drug fails its first big clinical trial and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Declining enrollments force layoffs in big school districts. (National)
        
Berkeley to join free online education partnership. (National)
        
Silicon Valley worries about device addiction. (Business)
        
Cargill recalls ground beef that is linked to salmonella. (Business)
        
Alzheimer's drug fails its first big clinical trial. (Business)
        
Fees on top of fees obscure cost of flying. (Business)
        
Sleep is still top concern when consumers rate hotels. (Business)
        
The anxiety of waiting for medical test results. (Well)
        
Choosing 'watchful waiting' for prostate cancer. (Well)
        
Trans fat limits show benefits in New York. (Well)
        
The unproven claims of fitness products. (Well)
        
At high temperatures, a fan may not cool you. (Well)
        
A closer look at middle-classdecline. (Economix)
        
Safety agency investigates 2012 Jeep Grand Cherokee and 2009-10 Ram 1500. (Wheels)
        
An Amazon education. (Bits)
        
Parenting dilemmas in the age of facial recognition. (Bits)
        
Recording your sleep, without wearing a monitor. (Gadgetwise)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); FOOD RECALLS (88%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (88%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); BIOMETRICS (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); BACTERIA (57%); PROSTATE CANCER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



902 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
The New York Times: Are the much-bemoaned regulations on trans fats having a positive impact on what people eat in New York City? -- Jeff Gordinier
The Atlantic: Attention, weekend warriors: according to an investigation by the British Medical Journal, sports drinks are no better than plain water for you or your hydration. -- Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: The great drought is spreading beyond corn to wheat, soybeans and pinto beans, all of which feed chickens, cows and pigs. Commodity futures are soaring now for everything from meat to milk and cooking oil. And companies like Chipotle Mexican Grill have warned investors that their food costs will be rising. - Glenn Collins 
Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee: In the first episode of Jerry Seinfeld's new Web series, he and Larry David go out for lunch. Just before minute eight, the food neuroses really come out. --Julia Moskin
Slate: Other cultures drink camel, yak, reindeer and elk milk. Tiny amounts of sheep's and goat's milk aside, why don't Americans consume dairy products from mammals besides cows? -- Emily Weinstein
Bon Apptit: Not keen on the soy sauce they pour at your neighborhood sushi joint? Bring your own. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The Atlantic: One rap against food stamps -- that they benefit the food industry more than the poor -- gets a rap on the knuckles from someone who grew up with them. -- Patrick Farrell 
Chicago Reader: A cocktail made with shrimp paste? Even the bartender isn't sure about that briny blast on the palate. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Ecosalon: Skip the goulash: Budapest has plenty of other culinary attractions, including Frccs (a cocktail), rooster testicles (don't ask) and tacos. -- Patrick Farrell
The Tennessean: Two high-school juniors in Nashville chose gardening, over working at a sub shop, as their summer job. From nine small containers, a business bloomed. -- Julia Moskin
The San Francisco Chronicle: American Rhne-style wines face an uncertain future. Patrick Comiskey reports. ...
JancisRobinson: ... While in the northern Rhne Valley, growers on the hill of Hermitage battle against the construction of a 54-foot TV mast right behind an iconic chapel. -- Eric Asimov
The Huffington Post: As McDonald's extends its global reach, at least one corner of the world seems resistant: India, where the happiest meals are often vegetarian. -- Patrick Farrell 
New York: At last, poona kheera has hit the greenmarkets -- that sweet, juicy, yet crunchy -- cucumber, originally from India. It's a welcome slicing alternative for those classic cukes. - Glenn Collins 
Smitten Kitchen: An ode to classic, unfettered peach pie, the "very embodiment of a midsummer's dessert dream." - Emily Weinstein
Hudson Valley Magazine: Pastrami on rye. Poached pear and brie. Philly cheesesteak. A gallery of sandwiches. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Eater: The board of a new cooking school set to open this fall in San Francisco includes Daniel Patterson, chef at the groundbreaking restaurant Coi. -- Patrick Farrell
Decanter: Evidence of the recession in Britain: sales of Champagne are way down, while sales of cheaper prosecco and cava are way up. -- Eric Asimov

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MAMMALS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); FUTURES (78%); MEAT FREE DIETS (78%); OILS & FATS (78%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); SPORTS DRINKS (77%); MILK (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); SOFT DRINKS (72%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (71%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (57%); CHIPOTLE MEXICAN GRILL INC (57%)

TICKER: CMG (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (57%)

PERSON: LARRY DAVID (53%); JERRY SEINFELD (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); INDIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



903 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Fifth Down)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; football

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: Fantasy Football: Value, A.D.P. and the Stock Market

BYLINE: JONATHAN BALES


HIGHLIGHT: The key to a fantasy draft is not about which players to select but when to select them. 

 BODY:
Right around this time of year, I get a lot of questions from fantasy owners regarding the value of certain players. Would you draft Player X, and is Player Y a good value? Even though I obviously like some players more than others, my answer is always the same: it depends.
The N.F.L. and Fantasy Football Value
Back in April, the Philadelphia Eagles traded cornerback Asante Samuel to the Atlanta Falcons for a seventh-round selection. Samuel is past his prime, but he's certainly still a starting-caliber defensive back. He yielded just a 52.4 passer rating in 2011 (fifth best in the NFL), and Pro Football Focus graded Samuel as the league's 12th best player at the position.
If the N.F.L. invoked an economic structure similar to that of Major League Baseball, Samuel would have fetched far more than a late-round draft pick. In a league without a hard salary cap, the cost of players extends only so far as the owner's checkbook. Many of baseball's billionaire owners don't mind overspending in order to secure elite players. If money is no object, the value of baseball players relates only to their ability to play well.
In the N.F.L., teams are limited by a strict enforcement of a salary cap. The cost of signing players is greater because of its hindrance on a team's salary cap management, and the inability of an organization to sign other players. All of these aspects make up what is known as the of having a player on your team.
As it relates to Samuel, the Eagles owed him $21.3 million over the next two years. Even though Samuel is a good cornerback, his performance and age probably don't warrant that kind of money. Assuming the owner Jeffrey Lurie wouldn't have minded shelling out $21.3 million to Samuel from a financial standpoint, the figure would still have been a major blow to the Eagles' salary cap, blocking their ability to sign other players. Despite being a quality player, Samuel wasn't of particularly great value to the Eagles.
Finding Value in Fantasy Drafts
For fantasy owners, the round in which a player is selected represents his "contract." Thus, a single player can possess both great and horrible value depending where he gets drafted, with the opportunity cost being the loss of the pick. Later rounds represent a lower opportunity cost.
Value Isn't Inherent
We know a player's value in the N.F.L. and fantasy football isn't based solely on his projected performance, but also the opportunity cost of acquiring him. A vital aspect of this idea is that different players can hold various amounts of value for different teams.
Let's go back to Samuel. His contract was the primary reason the Eagles were willing to let him walk, but another important factor was the Eagle roster. With Nnamdi Asomugha and Dominique Rodgers-Cromartie also at cornerback, Samuel's potential value to the team was minimal at his $21.3 million price tag.
Just as a player's fantasy value is determined largely by his draft spot, it also can fluctuate depending on which owner selects him. Let's head to the third round of your upcoming fantasy draft. You've managed to land Ray Rice and Adrian Peterson in the first two rounds, and Matt Forte has somehow fallen to your pick in the third.
For most owners, Forte would represent incredible value. Not for you, though. The opportunity cost of selecting Forte is monumental, as you would be forced to again bypass the selection of other positions. Forte's projected points might be substantial, but the points he'll be projected to score for squad would be minimal.
Fantasy Football as a Stock Market
A fantasy football draft is really no different than the stock market. Both stock traders and fantasy owners seek to leverage knowledge into value acquisition, and that value is the result of cost minimization. And just as game theory is a useful tool in the fantasy owner's arsenal, a fundamental understanding of public perception is vital to traders.
Stocks are not inherently good or bad. Rather, those designations come in relation to the price of the stock. The merits of purchasing Microsoft stock, for example, cannot be determined without knowledge of the share price. Likewise, players are not valuable to fantasy owners outside of a proper understanding of their opportunity cost. Adrian Peterson, coming off of reconstructive knee surgery, isn't great value in the first round this year. In the fourth round, however, he could be a steal.
Buy Low, Sell High
The goal of investors is to sell stocks at their peak and buy them at their lowest point. When a stock is at its highest price, that number is likely not representative of the stock's true worth. In most cases, stocks tend to fall after they reach an all-time high because of regression toward the mean.
Similarly, fantasy owners are in the business of "buying" players whose perceived value is lower than their actual value, and "selling" players whose perceived value their actual value. This "buy low, sell high" mentality is fundamental to both stock trading and fantasy drafting.
Understanding Public Perception
At the heart of the value determination process for both traders and fantasy owners is a keen knowledge of public perception. Traders seek to predict which stocks will become popular among the public before that stock's share price rises. Similarly, fantasy owners must recognize which players have too low of a price tag (or Average Draft Position).
Both share price and A.D.P. are set by the public. Traders and fantasy owners must understand how the public perceives stocks and football players to enhance value. For the latter group, the worth comes in not knowing which players to draft, but more importantly, to draft them. Remember, neither stocks nor players have inherent value; value is a reflection of both actual worth and opportunity cost, the latter trait being influenced heavily by public perception.
Love and Loathe
With those words of draft philosophy out of the way, let's take a look at some players I "love and loathe" in 2012. Remember, these players are those I have rated the farthest from their current ADP. The players I "love" have great value in relation to their A.D.P., while those I "loathe" have not-so-great value in relation to where they are being drafted.

        
Players I Love
QB: Matt Ryan (Ranked 7, ADP 11 at his position)
Switching to a pass-heavy offense and equipped with incredible playmakers outside, Ryan has top five potential in 2012.
RB: James Starks (Ranked 18, ADP 29)
The Packers run more than you think, and Starks's only competition for touches is Alex Green.
WR: Percy Harvin (Ranked 4, ADP 19)
Yes, I have him ranked as the No. 4 wide receiver in PPR leagues. Harvin has so many ways to score, making him the rare low-risk/high-reward mid-round pick.
TE: Brandon Pettigrew (Ranked 3, ADP 10)
With defenses concentrating on limiting Calvin Johnson more than ever, Pettigrew should again dominate the middle of the field.

        
Players I Loathe 
QB: Matt Schaub (Ranked 23, ADP 15)
He's the anti-Matt Ryan.
RB: Michael Turner (Ranked 29, ADP 18)
Everything, and I mean everything, is pointing toward career-low numbers this season for Turner.
WR: Brandon Marshall (Ranked 15, ADP 6)
The upside is apparent, but there's just too much risk surrounding Marshall in a run-heavy offense for him to be a top 10 wide receiver.
TE: Antonio Gates (Ranked 8, ADP 3)
Gates will be a top five tight end if he remains healthy. He's 32 years old, and I'm not sure it will happen.
Fantasy Football for Smart People: How to Dominate Your Draft"Running the Numbers" Pro Football FocusFF TodayRotoWire.

        
Fantasy Drafting: Comparing Notes With Michael Fabiano

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (88%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%) Fantasy Football Draft; Fantasy Sports; Football; Fantasy Football

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (93%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (57%); ATLANTA FALCONS (57%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (72%) GEORGIA, USA (72%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



904 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: A Start-Up Dares to Leave the Bay Area and Venture Into the Wild

BYLINE: JESSICA BRUDER


HIGHLIGHT: The founder of By Nieves, a maker of natural skin care products, says there is real freedom in being "smallish" - and in not having investors. 

 BODY:
Last summer, Nieves Rathbun - the owner of By Nieves, a natural skin care company with a loyal following in the San Francisco Bay Area - decided to uproot her family in search of greener pastures. Her destination was Petrolia, a remote hamlet of 300 people on California's rugged Lost Coast. "It's not the edge of the world, but you can see it from here," her late father-in-law used to say.
Like many parents, she and her husband, a musician, dreamed for years of raising their child far from the urban grind. The trick? Ms. Rathbun is also raising a four-year-old business. She is determined to see it grow and support her family. To make that happen, she will need to maintain strong customer loyalty in the urban area she left behind. 
In April, Ms. Rathbun re-established her production and shipping facilities in an airy, 400-square-foot office with sweeping, pastoral views. To hold costs down and keep the family tight, her husband built the new headquarters into the side of an old barn on his 89-year-old mother's Petrolia homestead.
Employees: Four part-time employees in Petrolia; one part-timer in Oakland. Ms. Rathbun hopes her company eventually will employ four to 20 people full time and diversify the economy in her adopted community, where employment opportunities are scarce outside of Humboldt County's famous marijuana trade. "I have a fantasy of it becoming worker-owned," she added.
Location: Petrolia.
Founder: Ms. Rathbun has been in the natural products industry for two decades. She managed the flagship store for V'tae Parfum & Body Care in Nevada City, Calif., and later worked at Zia Natural Skincare in San Francisco.
Her decision to start her own company, she believes, was influenced in part by an iconoclastic childhood: born to a draft-dodger father and a Dutch mother in the Canary Islands, Ms. Rathbun's family roamed Europe, then traveled around the Pacific Northwest and Northern California, with stops in hippie communes in the Siskiyou and Marble Mountains. In one episode, her father hitched their belongings to a pair of donkeys and set a course for South America. (They never quite made it.)
Pitch: "My extended tagline is 'Handmade natural body care made with super natural ingredients, sassy sincerity and apothecary style,'" she said. "My other tagline is, 'everything good, nothing bad.'"
Traction: By Nieves's five products are distributed to 50 independent stores, mostly in the Bay Area but also in Brooklyn, Denver, Houston, Los Angeles and points in between. They are sold at craft fairs and online, through the company's own Web site and in Internet boutiques like Beautyhabit, Ecomom and Beklina. (Ms. Rathbun has also signed a vendor agreement with BeautySage, a new online retailer founded by Dr. Mehmet Oz, which plans to start selling her products next month.) By Nieves was named "Best Local Skincare" by SF Weekly in 2010.
"I may be shooting myself in the foot with this, but I'm committed to working with independent spas and boutiques," she said. "You're not going to find my stuff in Whole Foods. For me it's a branding choice, also. If it goes into a place like that, it just loses its impact. The skin care display is packed; it's eight feet high and 16 feet wide. I like it so much better when my stuff is in Atomic Garden - it's a lovely independent boutique and mine is the only skin care."
Revenue: Sales have been doubling annually and totaled $100,000 in 2011. She hopes to continue apace and top $200,000 in 2012.
Financing: Bootstrapped. "I meet other small- or medium-sized business owners, and they're like, 'I can hook you up with investors,' but I don't want to get hooked up with investors," she said. "I would be trading away my independence, the ability to make my own business decisions if I had to be answering to just the bottom line, rather than my moral inclinations."
Marketing: "Word of mouth, to me, is gold," Ms. Rathbun said. A part-time public relations staffer responds to sample requests from blogs and magazines. Otherwise, her strategy is mostly reactive; she's skeptical of ventures that focus heavily on advertising. "I think a lot of companies spend too much money on marketing when they could treat their employees better," she said. "I kind of like it when I hear that a company doesn't do advertising. It's one of those things I'm grappling with right now: Do I try to take advantage of that machine?"
Competition: The market for natural personal care products is vast and growing. In 2011, global sales hit $26.3 billion, up nearly 11 percent over the year before, according to the research firm Kline & Company. The domestic market is dominated by heavyweights like Aveeno, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, and Burt's Bees, which was bought by Clorox in 2007; whether their products have actually remained "natural" is a point of contention among industry watchers. But Ms. Rathbun isn't interested in going head-to-head with the big brands. "There's plenty of room in the market for lots of little companies," she said. "There's a real freedom in being smallish."
Challenge: Making the move work. "The thing I'm nervous about is that I don't know how much being in Oakland influenced the business," she said. "I know I can talk about the business better than anyone. I don't yet know what the opportunity cost is that I'm going to pay." So far, her clients seem to be responding well; she sent them all letters and received a "warm and wonderful send-off," Ms. Rathbun said. "So many people have a dream of maybe moving to the country someday."
How important is the location of your business? Do you ever think of escaping to the wild?
Twitter

        
Despite 2 Floods, a Business Decides to Stay Put
        
Is It Worth Risking Disaster for the Perfect Location?
        
Has Perky Jerky Lost Its Perk?
        
Oh Baby Answers Its Chicken-and-Egg Question
        
Using Public Relations to Drive Demand

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TOILETRIES MFG (90%); SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); CANNABIS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (73%); RELOCATIONS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (70%); RETAILERS (68%); EMPLOYMENT (66%) By Nieves; Nieves Rathbun; relocation; Whole Foods; Relocation of Business; Small Business; Oakland (Calif); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif); Start

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (99%); WEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CANARY ISLANDS (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (74%); SPAIN (73%) Oakland (Calif); San Francisco Bay Area (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012



905 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2457 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
Taking a Risk, and Hoping That Lightning Strikes Twice | Sean Parker, the 32-year-old billionaire and former president of Facebook - played by Justin Timberlake in "The Social Network" - was in the top floor of his town house in the West Village of Manhattan last month, lamenting that too few entrepreneurs continued taking big risks after their first great success, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
"Every good entrepreneur I know ends up in the wasteland of being a venture capitalist. It's really frustrating," he said.
Mr. Parker was sitting, or more accurately, slouching, on a couch next to his best friend and business partner, Shawn Fanning. Together, they founded Napster in 1999, the online music service that upended the entire industry before closing and filing for bankruptcy after losing a court case over piracy.
More than a decade later, however, Sean and Shawn are at it again. The two recently started a video chat service called Airtime. (Think Skype, mixed with Facebook and a twist of Chatroulette.)
Mr. Parker and Mr. Fanning are the exceptions to the successful-entrepreneurs-still-working theory. Sure, there are a handful of serial entrepreneurs out there in Silicon Valley: Jack Dorsey started Twitter and Square, for example, and Elon Musk, who was behind PayPal, now runs SpaceX and Tesla. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
No Summer Vacation for Europe's Crisis | Doubts grew on Monday about Greece's ability to make good on debt payments, and Moody's Investors Service cut the outlook for its credit ratings for Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg to "negative" from "stable." new york times
My Very Own Offshore Bank Account | Adam Davidson writes in The New York Times Magazine about his adventures in setting up an offshore bank account. He says creating a shell company in Belize was "a lot cheaper than I expected," and notes that neither he nor his adviser "broke any law in Canada, Belize, Singapore or the United States." new york times magazine
Canadian Investor Increases Stake in RIM | Prem Watsa, a value investor known as the "Warren Buffett of Canada," increased his company's stake in Research in Motion to just under 10 percent, a vote of confidence in the struggling BlackBerry maker, The Wall Street Journal reports. wall street journal
News Corporation Rebrands Education Division | The announcement that News Corporation would call its education division Amplify is part of the company's broader restructuring as it prepares to split in two, the Media Decoder blog reports. new york times media decoder
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Rosneft in Talks to Buy BP's Stake in TNK-BP | The Russian energy company Rosneft said on Tuesday that it had entered discussions to buy BP's 50 percent stake in TNK-BP, which the British oil giant owns jointly with a group of Russian billionaires. No time frame was provided for a potential deal. DealBook 
VMware to Buy Nicira for $1.05 Billion | VMware is buying a start-up that is part of the "software defined networking industry," which basically decouples software, or intelligence, from networking hardware. DealBook 
Cisco Approved for Takeover of NDS | The European Union signed off on Cisco's $5 billion takeover of NDS, a television software developer owned by Permira and News Corporation, Reuters reports. reuters
Stanley Black & Decker to Buy Infastech for $850 Million | Stanley Black & Decker is paying cash for Infastech, a Singapore-based company backed by CVC Capital Partners and Standard Chartered's private equity arm, Reuters reports. reuters
Buffett Said to Lead Bidding for Residential Capital | The New York Post, citing unidentified people, reports that Warren E. Buffett, "who had been named as the lead bidder for part of ResCap - a portfolio of mortgage loans being auctioned as a part the company's reorganization - is now emerging as a front-runner for the entire operation." new york post
Aditya Birla of India Raises Offer for Northern Iron | Northern Iron, which is listed in Australia, said it received a revised takeover offer from the Aditya Birla Group valuing it at about $532 million, The Wall Street Journal reports. wall street journal
Joh. A. Benckiser to Buy Peet's Coffee & Tea for $974 Million | Joh. A. Benckiser, the German conglomerate that owns companies like Coty, is buying Peet's Coffee & Tea, taking control of one of the country's oldest purveyors of specialty coffee. DealBook 
Genesee & Wyoming to Buy RailAmerica for $1.4 Billion | Genesee & Wyoming agreed on Monday to buy one of its main rivals, RailAmerica, for about $1.4 billion in cash, uniting two of the country's biggest short-line rail operators. DealBook 
Kirin Said to Hire Deutsche Bank to Review Options | Reuters, citing unidentified people with knowledge of the matter, reports: "Japan's Kirin Holdings Ltd. has hired Deutsche Bank to examine all options as it prepares to defend its interest in Singapore conglomerate Fraser and Neave." reuters
Chinese Make $15 Billion Move Into Canada | Through the acquisition of Calgary-based Nexen, the Chinese state-run oil giant Cnooc would gain valuable footholds in oil- and gas-producing areas in North America and around the world. DealBook 
Graphic: A Chinese Energy Company Expands | The Chinese oil giant Cnooc made a bid on Monday to acquire the Canadian oil producer Nexen. If the deal is approved, it would give the Chinese company control over Nexen's extensive oil and gas operations across the world. DealBook 
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Citigroup's New Chairman Is Hands-On | Since he took over from Richard Parsons as chairman of Citigroup, Michael E. O'Neill, who once ran the Bank of Hawaii, has been asking employees questions like, "How important is technology to what you do?," The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unidentified person who was present at a meeting. wall street journal
Bank of America Names New Head of U.S. Capital Introduction | Bank of America Merrill Lynch said on Monday that it had named Elizabeth Hammond the head of its capital introduction team in the United States, according to an internal memorandum reviewed by DealBook. DealBook 
Bank of America Reduces A.T.M. Network | Bank of America has cut its network of automated teller machines by almost 9 percent this year, as part of an effort to cut costs, Bloomberg News reports. Its total number of A.T.M.'s fell by 1,536 in the first half. bloomberg news
Banks Again Prepare to Make Cuts | Reuters Breakingviews writes: "Faced with slumping income and tough regulation, the industry is bracing for another round of cuts. Making further savings won't be straightforward. But with shareholders antsy and no rebound in sight, investment banks have little choice." reuters
Banks Try New Advertising Strategies | American Banker reports: "As banks try to raise revenue and improve their reputations, they are shaking up their relationships with the 'mad men' of Wall Street, testing out new advertising to help refurbish their brands." american banker
Clues for Investigating JPMorgan's Trading Losses | Spikes in an index of credit derivatives "offer a road map for investigators," Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
An Effort to Revive Interest in Mortgage Securities | Nassar Hussain, formerly a Merrill Lynch managing director and now a managing partner at Brookland Partners, is "leading efforts to revive demand for new commercial mortgage backed securities, a product he says is essential to revive Europe's struggling banks," Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
PRIVATE EQUITY 
TPG Waits Patiently for Billabong | In its second approach this year, TPG Capital has bid less for Billabong International, a strategy that proved successful for Sycamore Partners in its takeover of Talbots. DealBook 
Lack of Financing Stymies European Buyouts | Private equity firms in Europe have raised more capital than they had in 2006, but the value of announced deals this year has fallen 51 percent compared with last year, Bloomberg News reports. "A piece of the equation, the leverage, is missing," Antoine Drean, chairman of Triago Europe, which advises private equity funds, told Bloomberg. "A lot of this dry powder is going to vanish." bloomberg news
Buyout Firms Said to Eye United Technologies Unit | The Carlyle Group and BC Partners have teamed up and are in advanced talks to buy the industrial business of United Technologies, in a potential deal worth about $3.5 billion, Reuters reports, citing three unidentified people familiar with the matter. They are looking at the pump and compressor businesses within United Technology's Hamilton Sundstrand unit. reuters
United Technologies to Sell Rocketdyne Unit to GenCorp | United Technologies has agreed to sell its Rocketdyne unit to GenCorp for $550 million, as part of its plan to sell off noncore assets after buying Goodrich last year for $16 billion. DealBook 
Italian and Russian Banks in Private Equity Joint Venture | The Italian bank Intesa Sanpaolo is teaming up with the Russian lender Gazprombank to jointly invest up to 300 million euros ($365 million) in Italian and Russian companies, Reuters reports. reuters
Indian Firm Looks to Raise $500 Million | Red Fort Capital Advisors, an Indian real estate firm that manages more than $1 billion, plans to raise a new pool of capital after it said it had invested half of the fund it raised in January, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
HEDGE FUNDS 
Man Group Announces More Cost Cuts as Assets Decline | Man Group, the world's largest publicly traded hedge fund manager, is planning an additional $100 million in cost cuts by the end of next year in a bid to stem the continuing decline in its assets under management. DealBook 
Paulson Said to Predict 50% Chance of Euro Breakup | John A. Paulson told clients during a phone call on Monday that he perceived a 50 percent chance Europe's currency union would break apart, Reuters reports, citing an unidentified investor. reuters
An Ackman Acolyte Plans to Strike Out on His Own | Scott Ferguson, one of the first people William A. Ackman hired at Pershing Square Capital Management, is leaving at the end of the month with plans to begin his own hedge fund later next year, according to a letter to investors reviewed by DealBook. Mr. Ferguson has a special distinction. He was the first analyst Mr. Ackman hired at Pershing Square, and was the first investment team partner at the hedge fund. DealBook 
Asian Hedge Funds Wait to Raise Capital | Bloomberg News reports that some hedge funds in Asia, like Baruna Asset Management, are choosing to focus on improving their returns rather than raising more cash from investors. bloomberg news
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
A Rough Year for Brazilian I.P.O.'s | Bloomberg News reports: "Brazilian companies are canceling initial public offerings at the second-highest rate among the biggest emerging markets as slowing economic growth makes the country's benchmark stock index the worst performer this year." bloomberg news
Tempered Recovery Expected for I.P.O.'s | Morgan Stanley says the I.P.O. market will experience "ebbs and flows" this year following a recent drought, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Boston Outpaces New York in Tech I.P.O.'s | Fortune writes: "Nine Boston-based companies have gone public since the end of 2010, and no New York-based companies have. Why?" fortune
Airline's Offering Raises Concerns | The Wall Street Journal's Heard on the Street column writes: "This is one flight that investors shouldn't board. All Nippon Airways last week said it will raise $2.2 billion from selling new shares. The airline is already burdened with a big debt load compared with other Asian carriers. The new equity marks ANA's third share increase since 2006 - more than 900 million new shares this time, for a whopping 40% dilution." wall street journal
VENTURE CAPITAL 
Investors Said to Double Money in Andreessen Horowitz Fund | The venture capital firm's $300 million initial fund, which invested in Skype, Fusion-io and Instagram, has returned double its investors' money, according to Fortune. fortune
August Capital Plans $550 Million Fund | The 17-year-old venture capital firm August Capital is raising its sixth fund, according to regulatory documents, TechCrunch reports. techcrunch
Twitter's Chief Outlines a Plan for Growth | Dick Costolo, Twitter's chief executive, told The Wall Street Journal that the site was trying to attract more users with an effort to "more closely tie the shared experience on Twitter to the actual event that is happening." wall street journal
 Silicon Valley Frets Over Addiction to Devices | Stuart Crabb, a director in the executive offices of Facebook, is among the technology leaders who say it is a good idea to occasionally step away from computers and other devices. "If you put a frog in cold water and slowly turn up the heat, it'll boil to death - it's a nice analogy," he told The New York Times. new york times
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Congress Presses New York Fed for More Details on Rate-Rigging Scandal | Congress is seeking more documents and communications between the Federal Reserve bank of New York and employees from all 16 banks that help set the Libor rate. DealBook 
Finding Recourse When Investors Are Cheated | The federal government may need to find new ways of providing some recourse for investors who are victims of brazen fraud, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. DealBook 
Fed Official Takes Aim at Proprietary Trading | Sarah Raskin, a Federal Reserve governor, said, according to Reuters: "I view proprietary trading as an activity of low or no real economic value that should not be part of any banking model that has an implicit government backstop." reuters
Goldman Seeks Dismissal of Bid-Rigging Suit | Goldman Sachs, Bain Capital and the Carlyle Group asked a judge to throw out an investor lawsuit accusing the firms of conspiring to rig bids on buyouts, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Bank of America Moves Closer to Mortgage Settlement | The Financial Times reports: "Bank of America moved a step closer to securing an $8.5 billion settlement that is crucial to drawing a line under its mortgage woes after a key objector withdrew its opposition." financial times
Former Chief of Anglo Irish Bank Charged With Fraud | The Associated Press reports: "Irish police say detectives have arrested the former chief executive of Anglo Irish Bank and charged him over a conspiracy to hide losses at the bank before its 2009 nationalization." associated press
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (86%); VENTURE CAPITAL (78%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (74%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (74%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); MERGERS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SHELL CORPORATIONS (73%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (60%)

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (66%); NEWS CORP (63%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); PAYPAL INC (54%); RESEARCH IN MOTION LTD (52%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%); TNK-BP LTD (50%); OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (50%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (63%); NWS (ASX) (63%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); RIM (TSX) (52%); BBRY (NASDAQ) (52%); ROSN (RTS) (50%); ROSN (LSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (54%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (54%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (52%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (50%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (50%)

PERSON: JUSTIN TIMBERLAKE (72%); WARREN BUFFETT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); BELIZE (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); LUXEMBOURG (69%); NETHERLANDS (54%); GREECE (54%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



906 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: No Surprises

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times
Senator Thomas F. Eagleton of Missouri was selected to be the Democratic Party's vice-presidential candidate in 1972 in a decision that came after little vetting and helped lead Senator George McGovern to endure the worst defeat in presidential history. One of the lasting legacies of that loss is the microscopic examination of the lives and records of potential vice-presidential candidates, with a very specific goal: no surprises, Lawrence K. Altman writes.
Neither President Obama nor Mitt Romney are interested in new gun control initiatives after the deadly rampage in Colorado last week, with some members of Congress acknowledging that any such initiative would be used in a fund-raising appeal against them by the National Rifle Association. Both candidates have supported gun control in the past, but their views shifted as Americans have backed away from stricter gun laws, and both men have felt a political sting from their earlier positions, Trip Gabriel reports.
President Obama began a sharp assault on Mitt Romney's foreign policy credentials Monday in a speech before the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention, Helene Cooper and Richard A. Oppel Jr. write. With Mr. Romney scheduled to leave Wednesday on a trip to Britain, Israel and Poland, Mr. Obama used his appearance to paint his rival as a national security neophyte with a dangerous affinity for failed policies of the past.
Senate Republicans will press this week to extend tax cuts for affluent families set to expire Jan. 1, but the same Republican tax plan would allow a series of tax cuts for the working poor and middle class to end next year, Jonathan Weisman reports. It sets up a potentially tricky issue for Republicans, who have said they do not want taxes to go up on anyone while the economy struggles to gain altitude, but under their plan, about 13 million families would see tax refunds reduced, and some would see their taxes increase.
Around the Web
About one-third of the Democrats in Congress have not paid their dues to the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, and another 109 lawmakers have only paid a portion of what they owe to the committee, Politico reports. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the House Democratic leader, says they are facing deep-pocketed Republican groups as they near the fall campaign season, and the lack of money raised by her members has left them in deep trouble.
The nation's 50 largest lobbying spenders have spent significantly less on politics this quarter due to an increasingly idle Congress, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington
Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton will host a bilateral meeting with Prime Minister Laurent Lamothe of Haiti in the State Department.
A series of events will take place around Washington for the International AIDS Conference, including a march of more than 30,000 people at Lafayette Park in front of the White House to "demand rights and resources to confront and cure HIV/AIDS."

        
The Early Word: Persistent Woes
        
The Early Word: Ties That Bind
        
The Early Word: Clarity
        
The Weekend Word: Fighting Words
        
The Early Word: In With the Old

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); FIREARMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); FAMILY (69%); POOR POPULATION (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%) early word; The Early Word; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; National Rifle Assn; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%); DEMOCRATIC CONGRESSIONAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%) Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee; National Rifle Assn

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (92%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); NANCY PELOSI (58%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (79%); POLAND (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



907 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Dollar Fever

BYLINE: DANIEL POLITI


HIGHLIGHT: Argentina's Central Bank officially banned the purchase of U.S. dollars for savings, but legal mandates won't suddenly end the Argentinian love affair with the dollar. 

 BODY:
BUEONS AIRES - Earlier this month, Argentina's Central Bank officially banned the purchase of U.S. dollars for savings, making official what had already been a de facto government policy following months of tightening controls on the foreign-exchange market as a way of protecting foreign reserves. Now only those traveling abroad are allowed to buy foreign currency provided they get permission from the government tax agency first.
The prohibitions mark the latest in President Cristina Fernndez de Kirchner's whack-a-mole approach to policy. The government imposes palliative measures to deal with problems of its own making, using tactics that only make them worse in the long run. The problem at the heart of the new currency policy is the government's inability and unwillingness to deal with inflation. (Stagflation might soon be a more accurate term, considering that the economy contracted in May for the first time since 2009.
Since its spectacular economic collapse a decade ago, Argentina has enjoyed years of having one of the world's highest growth rates. Yet that rapid expansion, fueled by lots of government spending, came at a cost of rising prices. Since 2007, the government has cooked official data, severely underestimating inflation to the point that almost no one believes the official numbers that are released every month. Opposition lawmakers say cumulative inflation since 2007, when the government began its dubious accounting practices, was 193 percent, 136 percentage points greater than official figures.
Mere legal mandates aren't going to suddenly solve these problems, nor will they end the Argentinian love affair with the dollar. Argentinians have turned to the U.S. currency in times of uncertainty, and in a country with numerous boom-and-bust cycles over the past half century, that has meant most of the time. In 2006, the U.S. Treasury Department estimated that somewhere around $50 billion in dollar currency is held in Argentina. [pdf] (In contrast, Brazil had $1 billion.) Even Kirchner had more than $3 million in the bank before announcing last month that she would convert them to pesos in what she qualified as a patriotic gesture that others should follow.
Since the announcement, the black market for the dollar has soared as Argentines are increasingly willing to pay a hefty premium to get their hands on the greenback. Last week, the , as the illegal rate is known in local parlance, reached a high of 6.80 pesos (it has since declined to around 6.40 pesos). The under-the-table market that moves an estimated $20 million per day may be illegal but it's hardly hidden. Newspapers publish the rates daily and money changers can easily be spotted in downtown Buenos Aires. The high demand isn't difficult to understand. Even for the few who can buy the dollar at the official rate, it's a good deal, since the peso has failed to keep up with inflation.
There's little doubt the peso will continue to weaken as there's no sign the government will moderate its penchant to print cash. So far this year, the number of notes and coins in circulation soared by 24.5 billion pesos, a staggering 36 percent.
But that's not a problem for the government. After all, the president of the Central Bank, Mercedes Marc del Pont, recently affirmed that "it's totally false'' to say that printing money generates inflation. The statement likely seems surprising to anyone with any rudimentary knowledge of economics yet it follows a proud tradition by Argentinian officials of dismissing uncomfortable truths.
Until the government begins to be up front about what's going on in the economy, and adjust its variables accordingly, Argentines will continue to see the greenback as the only way to protect whatever money they might have left over at the end of the month.
Dollar fever won't go away just because it's illegal.

        
The Taxman Cometh
        
Argentina Derailed
        
Kirchner for Reefers?
        
Kirchner's False Positive
        
The Cult of Kirchner

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); STATISTICS (72%); TAX AUTHORITIES (71%); TAX LAW (71%); TRENDS (67%); PRICE INCREASES (66%) Argentina; Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner; Currency; Economic Co; Inflation (Economics); US Dollar (Currency); Kirchner, Cristina Fernandez de; Economic Conditions and Trends; Americas

PERSON: CRISTINA FERNANDEZ DE KIRCHNER (90%) Kirchner, Cristina Fernandez de

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) Argentina

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



908 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Deutsche Bank Blames Weak Euro for Drop in Second-Quarter Profit

BYLINE: JACK EWING


HIGHLIGHT: The preliminary earnings report demonstrates the challenges facing Anshu Jain and J&#252;rgen Fitschen, who took over in May as co-chief executives of the bank. 

 BODY:
FRANKFURT - Deutsche Bank, Germany's largest lender, said on Tuesday that earnings plunged more than expected in the second quarter after a weak euro led to an increase in operating costs in the United States and Britain.
Profit fell more than 40 percent to 700 million euros, or $844 million, the bank said in a preliminary release that offered little detail. The bank's operating expenses not counting interest rose 5 percent from a year earlier, to 6.6 billion euros. 
The increase in costs "is mainly a result of the bank's U.S. dollar and pound sterling cost base being negatively affected by the weakening of the euro," the bank said. The euro was trading at slightly more than $1.20 Tuesday, near a two-year low.
The preliminary earnings report demonstrates the challenges facing Anshu Jain and Jrgen Fitschen, who took over in May as co-chief executives of the bank, replacing Josef Ackermann, who retired. Deutsche Bank shares fell 2.1 percent Tuesday to close at $28.17 in New York.
In past quarters, Deutsche Bank had lower trading revenue as its clients stayed away from financial markets hurt by the euro zone debt crisis. The bank said that revenue in the second quarter fell to 8 billion euros from 8.5 billion euros a year earlier.
Deutsche Bank is among the institutions under scrutiny by authorities in connection with manipulation of Libor, the London interbank offered rate, a benchmark used to help determine the borrowing rates for $750 trillion worth of financial products, including student loans and mortgages.
After a rival, Barclays, agreed in June to pay $450 million to resolve accusations against it by American and British authorities, there had been speculation that Deutsche Bank would set aside money to cover a possible settlement. But the bank did not mention the Libor investigation in its one-page statement Tuesday.
Nor did it address speculation that it planned large cuts in its investment banking unit, previously run by Mr. Jain. The bank said only that it planned to reduce its level of risk to help restore profit.
Deutsche Bank said it set aside 400 million euros in the quarter to cover possible bad loans, down from 464 million euros a year earlier. Profit before taxes was about 1 billion euros, down from 1.8 billion euros, the bank said.
It said it would provide precise figures and more details about the quarter on July 31.

        
Ackermann Hands Over Reins of Deutsche Bank
        
Deutsche Bank Earnings Fall 34%, Worse Than Expected

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EURO (92%); COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); EURO CRISIS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BRITISH POUND (70%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); INTERBANK LENDING (62%) Anshu Jain; Deutsche Bank; Jurgen Fitschen; Ackermann, Josef; Fitschen, Jurgen; Jain, Anshu; Banking and Financial Institutions; Euro (Currency); Deutsche Bank AG; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Investment Banking; Top Headline 2; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: Deutsche Bank AG

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (92%); DBK (FRA) (92%); DBK (BIT) (92%); DBETN (JSE) (92%); DBA (ASX) (92%); DB (NYSE) (92%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%)

PERSON: JOSEF ACKERMANN (89%) Ackermann, Josef; Fitschen, Jurgen; Jain, Anshu

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (58%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



909 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 2034 words

HEADLINE: Live Blog: Public Hearing on Proposed Soda Ban

BYLINE: MICHAEL M. GRYNBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The city's Board of Health, which will vote on Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to restrict the size of sugary drinks in September, held its lone public hearing on Tuesday. 

 BODY:
Updated, 4:24 p.m. | Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposal to restrict the size of sugary drinks sold in New York City has earned international attention and renewed a national debate on obesity. On Tuesday, the plan faced its first face-to-face test with the public.
The city's Board of Health, which will vote on the proposal in September, held its lone public hearing on the measure at the headquarters of the city's health department in Long Island City, Queens. Representatives of the soft-drink, restaurant and movie-theater industries - which have already spent generously on a public-relations campaign opposing the plan - turned out in droves.
The Bloomberg administration says it wants to fight runaway obesity rates in New York, particularly in lower-income neighborhoods. The beverage industry, which stands to lose millions in revenue from the plan, says the city is stripping away choices from consumers and hurting small businesses.
The hearing began shortly after 1 p.m. and lasted for several hours. There was a packed house, and not a small police presence. See below for dispatches from throughout the afternoon. 
4:24 p.m. | Signing Off
Most of the board members have left, and the room is starting to empty out. (Even Dr. Farley, the health commissioner, left briefly for a bathroom break.) But 80 minutes past the scheduled end time of Tuesday's soda hearing, at least a dozen more people are still expected to speak, perhaps a sign of the keen interest this policy has prompted in the city and around the world.
In the end, few of the speakers on Tuesday represented the average soda-drinker on the street. Politicians, soft-drink industry representatives, health professionals and academics dominated the presentations. There were a handful of union officials, consumer advocates - and at least one lobbyist for Auntie Anne's, the shopping-mall soft-pretzel chain, who testified that the mayor's plan would create an inequitable business environment. He added: "Nothing compares to a golden brown Auntie Anne pretzel and lemonade."
A bowl of fruits and vegetables, the only prop brought by any of the speakers, remained on the front table in the room, minus a nectarine, which had been plucked by Councilman Robert Jackson after he concluded his remarks against the mayor's plan.
After more than two hours of testimony, the expected outcome does not appear to be much different: the Board of Health is likely to approve the mayor's proposal, and the soft-drink and restaurant industries are likely to keep fighting back, possibly in court. The board will formally vote on the plan in September; if approved, it would take effect in March. And the next public testimony on this subject may take place in a more high-stakes realm: the courtroom.
4:11 p.m. | After Hours of Soda Talk, Another Beverage Gets Its Due
"Nothing compares to a golden brown Auntie Anne pretzel and lemonade." -Auntie Anne's representative, speaking at soda hearing.
- Mike Grynbaum (@grynbaum)24 Jul 12
3:05 p.m. | Fruit Update
"May I take one?" Robert Jackson, Manhattan councilman, grabs a fruit from the aforementioned health-bowl on the speaker's table.
- Mike Grynbaum (@grynbaum)24 Jul 12
3:00 p.m. | No Histrionics from Board of Health
So what do the members of the Board of Health make of all this?
Based on their collective poker face, not much. We would describe the facial expressions of the eight members in attendance as something in the vicinity of "close-lipped," "stoic," "impassive," and "blank." Even Marty Markowitz's jokes could barely elicit a smile.
Most of the members are sitting quietly with their hands clasped; one is scrawling a few notes on a memo pad. Dr. Thomas Farley, the health commissioner, sits in the center, head-on to the speakers' table. He is staring straight ahead and, like the other members, has not uttered a word since the proceedings began.
At a preliminary hearing on the soda plan in June, some members raised concerns about the plan, mostly related to its economic impact on poorer communities. But the majority of the board appeared to be generally supportive.
2:38 p.m. | Time for Show and Tell
Here is a speaker from Mt. Sinai who has brought a dish of bananas, fruits, & healthy-looking crackers. "I always bring show-and-tell."
- Mike Grynbaum (@grynbaum)24 Jul 12
Speaker's health-bowl includes cucumbers, nectarines, baby carrots & mushrooms. But will she share with the reporters..?
- Mike Grynbaum (@grynbaum)24 Jul 12
2:24 p.m. | Debating the Role of the Soft-Drink Industry
The soft-drink industry has launched an ambitious public-relations campaign to combat the mayor's plan. That has angered Michael F. Jacobson, a founder of the Center for Science in the Public Interest, a consumer group that focuses on nutrition and health.
Mr. Jacobson says that beverage companies should be ashamed.
"Portraying a vitally important health initiative as an assault on consumers' rights is simply distracting," he said. (An industry-sponsored group, New Yorkers for Beverage Choices, has run advertisements suggesting that Mr. Bloomberg is stripping away residents' "freedom of choice.")
The industry, Mr. Jacobson retorted, wants "the freedom to sell supersized junk." He said that health problems associated with obesity can cost billions of dollars in annual health care costs and lost productivity.
The next speaker happens to be a representative from the American Beverage Association, the soda industry's leading trade group and the source of financing for the "freedom of choice" ads. The speaker, Vanessa Lockel, said the mayor's plan "is distracting us from real issues, from real programs that actually help with regard to obesity and help with awareness."
Ms. Lockel said that soda distributors and bottlers represent small businesses and civic contributors throughout New York City, where beverage companies have given money to support playgrounds and after-school programs.
2:10 p.m. | Assessing the Consequences on Poor Neighborhoods
Prior to the start of the hearing, the city's health department presented a chart that mapped rates of obesity and soda consumption across the five boroughs. Poorer neighborhoods, particularly in the Bronx and eastern parts of Brooklyn, appeared to have the highest rates.
One of those Brooklyn neighborhoods is in the district of Letitia James, a city councilwoman who is exploring a run for public advocate next year. In somber, quiet remarks, Ms. James told the board members that she had wrestled with the issue for weeks, but, "with a heavy heart," concluded that she must oppose the mayor's plan.
"I recognize some of this has to do with lifestyle and a lack of education, and I know that some of this has to do with an unfortunate number of individuals who are inactive," Ms. James said. But she said that the plan would hurt mom-and-pop businesses and affect poorer families who purchase soda in bulk to save money.
Ms. James also criticized the city for not renovating parks and playgrounds in her district, and for not expanding physical education in the schools. She also said the Board of Health should have held hearings all across the city, and in the evenings, when working people could attend.
Referring to the health department's shiny glass headquarters in Queens, where Tuesday's hearing is being held, Ms. James said, "Although this is a wonderful building, it's rather inconvenient."
1:55 p.m. | Restaurant Industry Speaks
Joy Dubost, the director of nutrition and healthy living for the National Restaurant Association, a Washington-based trade group, is the first speaker from an industry that is opposed to the mayor's plan. She disputes the city's assertion that soda consumption is directly connected to rising obesity rates.
"Added sugars, including sugar-sweetened beverages, are no more likely to cause weight gain than other sources of calories," she said. "Regulation is not the best choice, particularly when there is little empirical data to show there is a public benefit for this type of approach." (New York would be the first major city to attempt restricting the container sizes of sugary drinks.)
"The restaurant industry is committed to taking a proactive role in helping to combat obesity," Dr. Dubost adds. But she calls the mayor's plan "paternalistic" and says it would "produces a false sense of accomplishment."
1:40 p.m. | First to Testify, Politicians Question Mayor's Approach
The hearing room is packed to the brim, with a phalanx of cameras lined up along one wall, representing at least two dozen national and local news outlets, including CNN and the major networks. A handful of police officers stand watch.
The Board of Health has 11 members. Eight are currently sitting in the front of the room. The audience was informed that "some of the board members may be leaving before it's over, and some of the board members may be coming later." This is, as a reminder, the lone session that has been scheduled for the public to directly address the entity that will approve or reject the plan.
Politicians, as is often the case, have been allowed to speak before other members of the public. Dan Halloran, a city councilman from Queens who has opposed the mayor's plan, is the first speaker. He speaks stringently against the proposed restrictions, saying the plan is essentially a mayoral fiat.
Then, Mr. Halloran compares the plan to previous public health initiatives from the Bloomberg administrations, using a common saying about the Holocaust. "When they came for the cigarettes, I didn't say anything, because I didn't smoke," Mr. Halloran said. "When they came for the M.S.G., I didn't say anything because I don't eat it very often."
Next up is Marty Markowitz, the Brooklyn borough president. He says the mayor's approach to combating obesity will not work. "If someone has the right DNA, they can drink an entire 2-liter bottle of soda and not gain a pound," he says. "Someone like me, if I do that, I'd be twice as big as I am today."
Mr. Markowitz encourages the city to expand physical education programs in the public schools and take other measures to promote healthy eating.
1:24 p.m. | Before Hearing, City Hall Trots Out Health Experts
The Bloomberg administration invited four outside public health experts to offer testimonials in support of the mayor's proposal at a press conference prior to the start of the formal hearing.
It was a chance for the city to emphatically make its case in favor of the soda restrictions, before a hearing where industry officials and some lawmakers are expected to lambaste the mayor for his proposal.
In a packed room, in front of a thicket of cameras from CNN and other national outlets, city officials described an "epidemic" of obesity that is "ravaging" millions of New Yorkers, in the words of Linda Gibbs, the city's deputy mayor for health and human services.
The city said that thousands of deaths occur each year because of diseases like diabetes, which the health department has linked to soda consumption.
David R. Jones, the chief executive of the Community Service Society of New York, which works with low-income residents, said that soft-drink companies were selling "worthless items to poor communities."
Dr. Thomas Farley, the city's health commissioner, said he had not heard "a single complaint about the ban on trans fats in New York City," and he expected a similar response if the soda restrictions were to be approved.
"This is not a ban," Dr. Farley said. "This is a limitation on the container size."
But the beverage industry has been spending tens of thousands of dollars on a public-relations and advertising campaign to oppose the mayor's plan, and industry officials have all but promised to sue.
Dr. Farley said the city's lawyers "feel quite confident" that the soda restrictions would withstand any legal challenges - an assertion that would almost certainly be tested by the soda industry if the plan is approved during the board's vote, in September.

        
Fighting Ban on Big Sodas With Appeals to Patriotism
        
At Movies and Beaches, Soda Industry Makes Its Case
        
At City Hall, Not Seeing Moderation in All Things
        
On 'Today,' Mayor Defends Soda Ban (and Donut Day)
        
City Joins Resident in Asking Supreme Court to Strike Down U.S. Marriage Law

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (94%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); CITIES (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); OBESITY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (75%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); RETAIL BAKERIES (75%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (75%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); RESTAURANTS (75%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); NUTRITION (72%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (72%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (72%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (72%) Michael R. Bloomberg; New York City Board of Health; soda ban; sodas; Bloomberg, Michael R; Beverages; Diet and Nutrition; Obesity; Board of Health (NYC); City Hall; Food and Drink; Health and Hospitals

COMPANY: AUNTIE ANNE'S INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: Board of Health (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (91%) Bloomberg, Michael R

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



910 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: Turmoil in Wisconsin Senate as Democrat Breaks With Party

BYLINE: MONICA DAVEY


HIGHLIGHT: Wisconsin state Senator Tim Cullen, a Democrat, announced that he would no longer caucus with his party, just as Democrats took control of the chamber. 

 BODY:
For a year, as partisan turmoil simmered in Wisconsin, Democrats had been fighting to take control of the state Senate - the only branch of government that seemed within reach for the outnumbered party. Then last week, Democrats officially took control of the chamber, having won a 17-16 majority after one bitterly-fought June race that was finally resolved with a recount. 
But by Tuesday, there was new turmoil.
State Senator Tim Cullen, a Democrat, announced that he will no longer caucus with the Democrats. For now, he said in a phone interview, he is still a Democrat. He will not become a Republican. But he may become an independent. 
Why quit now, just as the Democrats have gained dominance, at least momentarily, in a chamber? Senator Mark Miller, the majority leader, had granted him no leadership position on the committees the Democrats newly run, Mr. Cullen said. "He offered me something that was unacceptable," Mr. Cullen said of the leader. 
Both men were among a group of Senate Democrats who fled Wisconsin last year and stayed in undisclosed hotels and homes in Illinois in an effort to prevent Senate Republicans from voting on legislation to cut collective bargaining rights for most public workers. Republicans ultimately voted anyway, passing the cuts and setting off more anger among Democrats. 
The effect of Mr. Cullen's decision is, like seemingly everything else about Wisconsin politics lately, complicated. So long as Mr. Cullen remains a Democrat - even if he does not caucus with Democrats - it appears that the Democrats will formally hold onto control of the Senate. There's another factor, too, that appears to assure Democratic control: Another senator, Rich Zipperer, a Republican, is expected to resign the senate in August to work in the administration of Gov. Scott Walker, meaning that Democrats would widen their margin to 17-15. (A special election will be called to fill his seat.)
Mr. Miller issued a statement expressing disappointment at Mr. Cullen's decision, and stating that he had actually been offered a chairmanship - of the Committee on Small Business Development and Tourism. "He told me that if that was the committee offered to him, he would rather chair no committee at all," Mr. Miller said, adding, "It was an important committee as small business is the economic engine for Wisconsin."
Chairmanships and committees aside, the Democrats' dominance may prove largely symbolic and the turmoil seems certain to continue. The legislature is not actually scheduled to meet before November, when 16 of the Senate seats are up for election once more, giving Republicans a new opening. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (73%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (66%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (60%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%) Miller, Mark; Walker, Scott K; Collective Bargaining; State Legislatures; Wisconsin; The Caucus

PERSON: SCOTT WALKER (78%) Miller, Mark; Walker, Scott K

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (97%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2012



911 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: New York Fed Faces Questions Over Policing Wall Street

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG


HIGHLIGHT: Lawmakers wonder why the regulator failed to rein in banks that manipulated benchmark interest rates. 

 BODY:
As the Federal Reserve Bank of New York faced criticism for missing a multibillion-dollar trading loss at JPMorgan Chase, the regulator convened a town hall meeting in May to bolster employee morale.
Two months later, the New York Fed staff huddled again, after lawmakers questioned why the regulator had failed to rein in banks that manipulated key interest rates.
"We were told to keep our heads down and stay focused," said one person present at the July meeting who requested anonymity because the gathering was not public.
 The New York Fed, whose weaknesses were first exposed when the financial crisis hit, is undergoing a new trial by fire as it grapples with how to police Wall Street. While the regulator has revamped its approach to overseeing the nation's biggest banks since the crisis, recent black eyes suggest that fundamental problems persist.
Lawmakers will most likely focus on the record of the New York Fed when Timothy F. Geithner, the regulator's former president, testifies on Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee. Mr. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary, will appear before a Senate panel on Thursday.
The regional Fed bank, by virtue of its location in Lower Manhattan, is on the front line of financial regulation. With examiners stationed inside the banks, the regulator has a wide window into the inner workings of these institutions.
But the New York Fed does not have enforcement power like many American regulators. Instead, it reports potential wrongdoing to other agencies or the central bank, the Federal Reserve, and leaves its counterparts to dole out punishments if necessary.
The New York Fed's mission, officials say, is to broadly protect the health and safety of the financial system - not to micromanage individual banks.
"They focus on safety and soundness of the banks, which ultimately means they are not particularly focused on market manipulation," said Sheila C. Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, another regulator.
In recent years, the New York Fed has beefed up oversight. Under the president, William C. Dudley, the regulator has increased the expertise of its examiners and hired new senior officials.
Even so, the JPMorgan debacle and the interest-rate investigation have raised questions about the New York Fed. They highlight how the regulator is hampered by its lack of enforcement authority and dogged by concerns that it is overly cozy with the banks.
Mr. Geithner is expected to face questions from lawmakers on Wednesday about the rate-rigging inquiry that has ensnared more than a dozen big banks. In June, Barclays agreed to pay $450 million to authorities for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.
Since the settlement, Mr. Geithner has heralded his efforts to reform the rate-setting process in 2008. But the New York Fed, which knew Barclays had been reporting false rates at the time, did not stop the actions.
And when Mr. Geithner briefed other American regulators about Libor in May 2008, he did not disclose the specific wrongdoing, according to people briefed on the meeting. In later briefings, New York Fed officials did warn their counterparts about "allegations of misreporting."
"The regulator has an obligation to make a criminal referral if it suspects a crime may have occurred," said Bart Dzivi, who served as special counsel to the Federal Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. "How this doesn't rise to that level, simply boggles the mind."
The New York Fed has been engulfed by controversy since the financial crisis. Mr. Geithner was one of many regulators who had underestimated certain risks spreading through the financial system, saying in a May 2007 speech that "financial innovation has improved the capacity to measure and manage risk" while acknowledging that threats remained. In late 2008, the system nearly collapsed after Lehman Brothers failed.
This year, the New York Fed was again caught off guard when JPMorgan disclosed the trading losses, which have already exceeded $5 billion. The regulator has assigned about 40 examiners to the bank, but none of the officials kept close tabs on the chief investment office, the powerful unit that placed the ill-fated trade.
In the case of Libor, the New York Fed took a somewhat passive approach. Despite mounting evidence of problems, the agency focused on policy solutions rather than the wrongdoing. 
People close to the Fed note that, at the time, the regulator was primarily concerned with saving Wall Street from collapse. And the regulator pushed harder than its British counterparts, records show. Mr. Geithner urged British authorities to "eliminate incentive to misreport" Libor, which affects the cost of trillions of dollars in mortgages and other loans.
Some New York Fed examiners are now focused on how the Libor investigation could damage the bottom line at banks like Citigroup and JPMorgan. The examiners, people briefed on the matter say, are assessing whether banks need to build reserves against the growing threat of lawsuits.
The concerns echo the New York Fed's broader moves to enhance supervision. After the crisis, the Fed formed a special team to spot emerging risks. Mr. Dudley also appointed a new head of bank supervision, Sarah J. Dahlgren, who first joined the Fed more than two decades ago after working as a budget official at Rikers Island jail.
In recent years, the New York Fed has doubled the number of on-site examiners and dispatched some of its most senior officials to big banks. The lead supervisors at each bank are some of the most "battle tested" and sophisticated regulators who are comfortable challenging Wall Street executives, one regulator said.
The New York Fed also notes that it has delved deeper into internal bank data, focusing on business units that generate the most revenue and risk. To better prepare the industry for sudden losses, the regulator has pushed banks to build extra capital.
But there are limits to its power. Despite its leading role in policing the banks, the New York Fed cannot levy fines. When examiners do detect questionable behavior, they often push the company to adopt changes. If the wrongdoing persists, officials can pass along the case to the Federal Reserve board in Washington.
It is up to the central bank to take action. The Fed, which can impose fines and cease-and-desist orders, filed 171 enforcement actions last year. The cases are down 44 percent from the year before, but the actions have increased sharply from the precrisis era.
Some critics also contend there is a revolving door between Wall Street and the New York Fed. Mr. Dudley was formerly the chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs, and his wife collects deferred compensation from her days at JPMorgan. After Bear Stearns collapsed in 2008, the New York Fed hired the firm's chief risk officer.
The New York Fed does limit the influence of employees who depart for a career on Wall Street. Some former senior officials cannot discuss regulatory matters with the Fed for up to a year. As an extra measure, examiners rotate between banks every three to five years to prevent a clubby culture from forming.
But some experts say the problem is not solved.
"It's a cultural problem at all the banking regulators," said Ms. Bair, who is now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable Trusts. "There's not a healthy separation, and you can see that in their hiring practices."
An earlier version of this post misidentified the person in the accompanying photograph. It is William C. Dudley, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, not Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.

        
Bank of England Says New York Fed Gave No Warning on Rate-Rigging
        
Barclays Capital and Deutsche Bank Pick Up A.I.G. Assets

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WORKPLACE MORALE (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%) Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Timothy F. Geithner; William C. Dudley; Dudley, William C; Geithner, Timothy F; Banking and Financial Institutions; Interest Rates; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve Bank of New York

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); SHEILA BAIR (54%) Dudley, William C; Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



912 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 24, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2433 words

HEADLINE: State and National Polls Tell Different Tales About State of Campaign

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama's average lead in our top 10 "tipping point" states is larger than his average lead in national polls. 

 BODY:
The United States of America is a constitutional republic made up of 50 states and the District of Columbia.
I'm sure you knew that. But it seems as though pollsters might have slept through social studies class. In theory, state polls and national polls must ultimately agree with each other: the whole must equal the sum of the parts. In practice, they leave a different impression about the state of the presidential race. 
Consider that as of Tuesday afternoon, President Obama's lead in the RealClearPolitics average of national polls was 1.3 percentage points over Mitt Romney. 
But Mr. Obama led by a mean of 3.5 points in the RealClearPolitics averages for the 10 states (Ohio, Virginia, Florida, Pennsylvania, Colorado, Iowa, Nevada, Michigan, New Hampshire and Wisconsin) that are most likely to determine the election outcome, according to our "tipping point index." If the list is expanded to cover the five other marginally competitive states where RealClearPolitics calculates a polling average - Arizona, Minnesota, Missouri, New Mexico and North Carolina - Mr. Obama's lead averages 3.1 points, according to the numbers.
While that isn't an enormous difference in an absolute sense, it is a consequential one. A one- or two-point lead for Mr. Obama, as in the national polls, would make him barely better than a tossup to win re-election. A three- or four-point lead, as in the state polls, is obviously no guarantee given the troubles in the economy, but it is a more substantive advantage.
The difference isn't an artifact of RealClearPolitics's methodology. The FiveThirtyEight method, which applies a more complicated technique for estimating polling averages, sees broadly the same split between state and national polls.
Or if you prefer a bare-bones approach, you can take a count of the polls conducted in swing states: how many show leads for Mr. Obama, and how many put Mr. Romney on top?
In polls from the top 10 tipping point states since June 1, Mr. Obama has led by any margin in 43 surveys, while Mr. Romney has held the lead in nine of them. 
Since July 1, the discrepancy has been even clearer: Mr. Obama has held leads in 19 polls from these states, and Mr. Romney two.
Often, Mr. Obama's leads in these polls have been small, but that still doesn't seem consistent with the notion - as the national polls seem to express - that the race is about tied. We need some way to explain the results, or at least a strategy to deal with the uncertainty this introduces.
Perhaps the most common assumption is that if Mr. Obama is performing comparatively well in swing state polls, he might have some advantage in the Electoral College in relation to the national popular vote. Perhaps we are on track for a split outcome, as we had in 2000, but this time with Democrats benefiting from the idiosyncrasies of the Electoral College.
It's certainly possible that we'll see such an outcome, but historically speaking, it is not something you would want to bet on. Besides 2000, such a split occurred just two other times - in 1876 and in 1888 - since the popular vote came to be widely reported. That's just 6 or 7 percent of the time. The FiveThirtyEight model thinks the odds of such a split are not much better than that this year.
Instead, there are two other hypotheses that might also explain the difference, in whole or in part. They are banal and even boring, so simple that they might be overlooked.
One of these hypotheses is that the state polls are overrating Mr. Obama somehow. The other is that the national polls are underrating him. Or it could be that both of these ideas are right to a degree, and the truth lies somewhere in the middle. 
In this column, I will describe a method for comparing state and national polls: they are more suitable to a direct comparison than you might think. On Wednesday, we'll return to the question of how to derive the best prediction of the election outcome from the two sets of numbers.
***
The reason that state polls and national polls are fairly easy to compare is that the relative order of the states is extremely consistent from year to year. We know more or less how Vermont, Iowa and Wyoming, along with the other 47 states, will line up relative to the national trend. 
Let's define a simple quantity called the relative popular vote. It measures the popular vote in a given state relative to the national popular vote.
For instance, in 2008, Mr. Obama won Ohio by 4.6 percentage points. But he won the national popular vote by a slightly wider margin, 7.3 points. Subtracting 7.3 points from 4.6 yields negative 2.7. That means that Ohio was slightly Republican-leaning - by 2.7 points - relative to the national trend.
Knowing what the relative popular vote had been in each state in 2004 would have sufficed to explain about 90 percent of its relative popular vote in 2008, even without consulting any polls. This was no anomaly; these numbers are very consistent from election to election. We could show you the same chart for pretty much any of the last six or seven elections, and it would look about the same.
It is possible - and, in fact, desirable - to take advantage of this property when building a forecast model.
For instance, my analysis has found that when polls in a state are out of line with its relative popular vote from the past election or two, it often snaps back into place by November, unless this pattern is explained by another factor like the state's being the home of one of the candidates. This is why our forecast model gives quite a bit of weight to what I call "state fundamentals," the largest of which is simply how the state has voted recently.
You might call this the "top-down" method. Figure out the national trend, then back into an estimate of where the vote should be in each state based upon that.
Say, for example, that Washington state typically votes about 10 points more Democratic than the country as a whole. If Mr. Obama leads by two points nationally, that would imply that he would win in Washington by about 12 points.
But can't this also work the other way around? Say you have a poll showing Mr. Obama ahead by 12 points in Washington, and you know that Washington is 10 points more Democratic than the national average. 
Can't you infer from that poll that Mr. Obama is ahead by about two points nationally?
This "bottom-up" approach is also informative, it turns out. Or to put it another way, a poll in one state tells us something about the conditions of the race in the other 49 states.
Of course, this method needs to be applied quite carefully. Inferring the national trend from the polls in just one state will introduce a lot of noise into the system. 
But if you look at the state polls in all 50 states - or at least all states where there is a significant amount of polling - and do so in a systematic way, it can tell you quite a bit about where the national race stands. In fact, as we'll discuss in the follow-up column, the "bottom-up" method will sometimes give you a better estimate of the national popular vote than you'll get from the national polls themselves.
Let me give you a more detailed sense for how this works. First, we'll apply a relatively simple version of this calculation, then I'll give you the exact method that the FiveThirtyEight model uses.
For the simple method, we'll look at the 25 states that have been polled at least twice since May 1. Since then, the national race has been fairly stable, at least in our estimation.
In each of these states, I'm listing what I call the FiveThirtyEight modified polling average. The modified polling average starts out with our regular polling average, which weights the polls based on how recently they were conducted, the reliability of the pollster and the sample size of the poll. Then it makes three other adjustments: a likely voter adjustment (which reflects how polls of registered rather than likely voters typically underestimate the standing of the Republican candidate), a trendline adjustment (which reflects changes in the overall standing between the two candidates since the poll was conducted) and a "house effects" adjustment (which corrects for systematic biases toward either the Democratic or Republican candidates among certain pollsters). We've explained how each of these adjustments function in the past so I won't dwell on them now.
We can then compare the modified polling average with the relative popular vote of the state in 2008. 
In New York, for example, the modified polling average put Mr. Obama 23.3 points ahead as of Tuesday's forecast. In 2008, New York was 19.6 points more Democratic than the country as a whole.
By subtracting 19.6 points from 23.3 points, we get what I call an implied national popular vote. In this case, the result is Obama plus 3.7 points. In other words, the New York polls are most consistent with a race in which Mr. Obama leads by 3.7 points nationally.
This calculation varies some from state to state. The implied national popular vote derived from the polls in Arizona is Obama plus 8.7 points. (In this case, the high figure results in part from the fact that Arizona was John McCain's home state, meaning that it is easier for Mr. Obama to make up ground relative to the 2008 finish.) Whereas in Oregon - which Mr. Obama won easily in 2008 but where polls have shown a relatively tight race this year - the implied national popular vote is Romney plus 4.2 points.
These idiosyncratic cases tend to even out if we perform this calculation across all the states. Furthermore, we can weight the states based on their turnout in 2008: a deviation in the vote in Rhode Island or Wyoming will matter much less than one in California, Texas or Florida in terms of the national popular vote.
If we perform this calculation across all the states with a significant amount of recent polling, we come to a result of Obama plus 2.9 points. In other words, the totality of state polling - dozens and dozens of state polls, looked at in a careful way - is most consistent with a race in which Mr. Obama leads Mr. Romney by about three points nationally, according to this approach.
The method that our forecast model uses is similar to this, but it introduces some more nuances into the calculation.
First, instead of just looking at a state's relative popular vote in 2008, I calculate something called the FiveThirtyEight Presidential Voting Index. (The name is a takeoff on Cook Political's partisan voting index, which makes a similar calculation.)
The FiveThirtyEight Presidential Voting Index differs from the simple method in a few important ways:
It looks at the relative popular vote in both 2008 and 2004, giving the more recent year three-quarters of the weight. (My research suggests that this weighting is roughly optimal based on the historical data.) It accounts for the "elasticity" of a state, which is the tendency of some states (like New Hampshire) to move more relative to the national trend than others. It adjusts for home state effects. On average, a presidential candidate gets a seven-point push in his home state, and a two-point push in the home state of his vice-presidential nominee. We subtract these numbers when looking at the performance of the states in 2004 and 2008. (For instance, the method accounts for the fact that some of Mr. McCain's strong performance in Arizona in 2008 was because it was his home state.) Then, we add the numbers back in for the home states of the candidates in 2012. (Mr. Romney is expected to do better in his home state of Massachusetts than a Republican typically would.) Finally, we make sure that the index is properly calibrated, such that the average voting index across all 50 states and the District of Columbia is exactly zero, weighted by turnout. (Turnout estimates are adjusted for population growth in the states over the past four years and for changes in voter identification laws, although neither of these adjustments makes very much difference.)
Although this calculation might seem involved, the way to read the voting index is relatively straightforward. In Missouri, for example, the index is Republican plus 6.7 points. What this means is that if the popular vote were exactly tied nationally, we'd expect the Republican candidate to carry Missouri by 6.7 percentage points.
We can use this index to calculate an implied national popular vote, just as we did with the simpler method before. 
There are two more wrinkles that the FiveThirtyEight method applies. (Neither is that important, but I'm trying to document the method as completely as possible.) First, it weights each state not just based on the turnout there, but also on the quality and quantity of polling. So - although technically it determines an implied national popular vote for South Carolina - the South Carolina value receives very little weight in the overall calculation since the only poll there was conducted months ago. Second, it adjusts the difference between a state's modified polling average and its voting index by its elasticity score, which reflects the fact that some states are "swingier" than others, making it easier to make gains at the margin there. 
Based on the official version of the calculation, the implied national popular vote from the state polls is Obama by 3.6 points. 
In plain English, if you had to guess what the national popular vote was from the state polls alone - without ever looking at a national poll - the best estimate would be that Mr. Obama was ahead in the race by three or four points, even after adjusting for likely voters and for other factors.
This is slightly larger than the lead suggested by national polls alone, which put Mr. Obama ahead by about one or two points instead, according to our method. 
In other words, there is some divergence between the "top-down" and "bottom-up" approaches - the totality of state polls implying a somewhat more favorable result for Mr. Obama than the national polls do. Our "fancy" way of looking at the numbers doesn't resolve the dilemma that I introduced earlier on. 
In Wednesday's column, we'll explore different hypotheses that might explain these differences, and consider the best policy when they arise.
Two charts accompanying an earlier version of this post showed President Obama ahead in the polling average of Montana. He is behind in the state, not ahead. 

        
Aug. 1: Obama Extends Electoral College Advantage
        
Does Romney Have an Edge From Likely Voter Polls?
        
Is Romney Overreacting to Bain Attacks?
        
Readers See Obama Slightly Ahead, With Ohio Crucial for Romney
        
July 18: New Polls, but Little Change in Horse Race

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (94%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%) 2012; barack obama; mitt romney; polls; Presidential Election of 2012; swing states; tipping point states; Politics; Polling

COMPANY: FORBES INC (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (90%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2012



913 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Carpe Diem, Preferably in a Pair of Jeans

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
LEVI STRAUSS has a new message for the proud young men and women who hope to change the world, which echoes a line that James Cagney delivers in the movie ''One, Two, Three'': ''Put your pants on, Spartacus.''
The annual fall campaign for the Levi's brand sold by Levi Strauss & Company will, for the fourth year in a row, encourage the dreams of youth with the assertive theme ''Go forth.'' For 2012, Levi Strauss is adding a second theme, meant to inject some product peddling in the mix: ''This is a pair of Levi's.'' 
The second theme -- borrowed from a phrase that appeared for decades on the labels of Levi's jeans -- is meant to be taken figuratively as well as literally. The new theme will appear in ads for all types of Levi's clothing: jeans, dresses, shirts and nondenim items.
The 2012 campaign combines sales pitches and philosophy; in the commercial, the ritual of getting dressed is a chance to get ready to take on the world every 24 hours, almost as if donning armor for battle. That is underlined in a poetic-sounding, 60-second commercial that will be a centerpiece of the campaign aimed at people ages 18 to 34, which is to begin next month.
As scenes appear on screen of young men and women dressing and heading out to start their day, an announcer declares, ''This is a pair of Levi's, buttons and rivets and pockets and cuffs, and the thread that holds it together.''
''When the road gets rough and the sky gets jumpy and the stars start falling on top of your head and the waves start breaking against your legs,'' the announcer continues, ''it's the thread in your seams that's tied to your dreams.''
''You follow your heart, follow the leader, you're the leader,'' the announcer concludes. ''Are you joking, are you breaking, are you shaking? You're the next living leader of the world. You're a kid. Holding onto the thread. That holds it together. This is a pair of Levi's.'' At that point, a Twitter hashtag, ''#GoForth,'' appears.
Other elements of the campaign take the same approach, among them a print ad that describes ''the tapered look at levi.com'' as ''Tailored for the young and hungry.''
The campaign is about ''the empowerment of the ritual of getting dressed in the morning and choosing your path,'' said Len Peltier, vice president and global creative director for the Levi's brand at Levi Strauss & Company in San Francisco.
Although the campaign is ''still about recognizing youth,'' it is ''important we get back to a style and product proposition,'' he added, otherwise the ads ''can get a little too ethereal or esoteric.''
A campaign that celebrates youth achievement at a time when youth unemployment is so widespread may seem counterintuitive.
''This is a fine line,'' Mr. Peltier acknowledged, between the perennially optimistic viewpoint of the Levi's brand and being ''honest and authentic with our consumers.''
The goal of the campaign is ''to inspire,'' Mr. Peltier said, adding: ''It's saying, 'You've got the power to get up and do it for yourself.' That's the 'Go forth.' ''
The campaign is being created by Wieden & Kennedy in Portland, Ore., which created the first ''Go forth'' campaign in 2009, and its successive iterations, including the 2010 campaign that focused on the travails of Braddock, Pa.
''We call it the uniform of progress; with Levi's, anything is possible,'' said Andrew Schafer, global account director at Wieden & Kennedy.
''Levi's has always been the voice of optimism and it may be hard to reconcile that with how things are,'' Mr. Schafer said, but as a result of technology, ''more than ever, kids have the power to change the world.''
The campaign ''encourages youth to get up every day and make their collective worlds better,'' he added. ''It is about making their way in a world that's uncertain, but on the bright side, it's theirs to create.''
The campaign is to run globally, focusing on markets in Britain, China, France, India and the United States.
In this country, in addition to the commercial, there will be ads in magazines, online, in stores and outdoors. Levi's will promote in Times Square, on the brand's first Apple iAd, through a so-called shoppable magazine on flipboard.com, and on social media outlets like Twitter and Facebook. There will also be videos on levi.com and lookbook.nu.
Wunderman in New York, part of the Young & Rubicam Group division of WPP, is handling digital strategy and execution for the campaign. OMD, part of the Omnicom Group, is handling media buying.
The budget for the campaign is expected to be the same as last year. According to Kantar Media unit of WPP, Levi Strauss spent $24.4 million in 2011 to advertise the Levi's brand in major American media.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Levi's ad campaign portrays getting dressed as an empowering moment, as if donning armor for the day ahead. To its ''Go forth'' theme of previous years, the company is adding another phrase borrowed from its own label: ''This is a pair of Levi's.'' The campaign will be used for all Levi's apparel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (72%)

COMPANY: LEVI STRAUSS & CO (96%); LEVI'S BRAND (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315220 MEN'S & BOYS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2325 MEN'S & BOYS' SEPARATE TROUSERS & SLACKS (96%); NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (59%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



914 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Softer Sales Of iPhones Hurt Apple

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
It looks as if many people are so sure the next iPhone is going to be good that they are not buying the ones Apple is selling now.
A lot of companies would love to have that problem -- if it can be called a problem, given that Apple still managed to sell 28 percent more iPhones last quarter than it did a year earlier.
Yet in the world of outsize expectations that envelops Apple, it still contributed to a rare earnings disappointment from the company. 
In response to the earnings report on Tuesday, Apple investors registered their unhappiness with the results by sending its shares down more than 5 percent in after-hours trading. In the regular session, the stock fell 2.9 percent, to $600.92.
The iPhone appeared to be the main issue. In a now-familiar pattern, analysts have been warning of potential weakness in iPhone sales because of the likelihood that the company would introduce a new version of the phone in the fall. Apple invariably brings out a new model around that time, and the anticipation can cause many phone shoppers to delay their purchases, leading to a surge in the holiday quarter.
In a conference call with analysts, Apple executives blamed economic weakness in Europe, Australia, Brazil and other countries for some of the shortfall in iPhone sales. But the company also said that the widespread chatter about whatever smartphone it will sell next was a significant factor.
''We're reading the same rumors and speculation you are about a new iPhone,'' said Peter Oppenheimer, Apple's chief financial officer.
In the past, Apple has felt the pain of delayed iPhone purchases most acutely in the summer quarter that ends in late September, but it can also start before then. ''We're seeing it earlier than ever,'' said Gene Munster, an analyst at Piper Jaffray, who predicted Apple would sell 29 million iPhones, rather than the 26 million it ended up reporting.
It is possible Apple is losing some business to other smartphones, most likely devices running Google's Android operating system, which have built a substantial following. But Apple is still expected to gain market share this year. Apple's share among smartphone users in the United States is expected to reach 31 percent in 2012, up from 30 percent last year, according to eMarketer, a firm that compiles data from technology research firms.
Rob Cihra, an analyst at Evercore Partners, said the iPhone was increasingly evolving into a business that has two quarters of gigantic sales, followed by two weaker ones, in which customers wait patiently for a new model. But Mr. Cihra said it would be far more worrisome if customers did not show so much enthusiasm about Apple's next move.
''That's the price of having an incredibly popular consumer product,'' he said.
Timothy D. Cook, Apple's chief executive, said there was not much Apple could do about the phenomenon beyond trying to keep its plans secret. ''I'm glad people want the next thing,'' he said. ''I'm not going to put any energy into trying to get people to stop speculating.''
The newest pillar of Apple's business, the iPad, has started to take some of the pressure off the iPhone to dazzle investors every quarter. For the fiscal third quarter ended June 30, Apple said it sold 17 million iPads, bringing in revenue of $9.17 billion, compared with nine million iPads and $6.05 billion in revenue a year ago.
Those sales got a lift from a new version of the iPad with a higher-resolution display that Apple introduced in March. The iPad now accounts for 26 percent of Apple's total revenue.
Mr. Cook added that Apple would release the latest version of its Mac operating system, Mountain Lion, on Wednesday.
Apple reported net income of $8.82 billion, or $9.32 a share, up from $7.31 billion, or $7.79 a share, in the period a year earlier. Revenue was $35.02 billion compared with $28.57 billion a year earlier.
The figures were above the $8.68 a share in profit and $34 billion in revenue that Apple had previously forecast for the quarter. But they fell well short of the estimates of Wall Street analysts, who typically take Apple's own forecasts with a grain of salt because of the company's long history of underpromising and overdelivering on its financial performance.
Analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected Apple to report earnings of $10.36 a share and $37.18 billion in revenue.
But even the growth of the iPad still has not come close to dislodging the iPhone's importance to Apple. It accounted for 46 percent of the company's revenue in the quarter, and, according to Mr. Cihra's estimates, about 60 percent of its profits.
Apple said it expects to report overall revenue of about $34 billion and earnings of $7.65 a share for the current quarter.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Apple sold 28 percent more iPhones last quarter than it did a year earlier, but that disappointed investors and Wall Street analysts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY AVELAR/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMARTPHONES (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MARKET SHARE (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (53%); EVERCORE PARTNERS INC (51%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); PJC (NYSE) (53%); EVR (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%)

PERSON: TIM COOK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (79%); BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



915 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 395 words

HEADLINE: U.P.S. Cuts Its Forecast On Weakness Overseas

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
United Parcel Service, the world's largest package-delivery company, cut its full-year forecast on Tuesday after a drop in international package sales dragged quarterly profit below analysts' estimates. 
Earnings for 2012 may be $4.50 to $4.70 a share, down from a previous projection of $4.75 to $5 a share, the company said.
Net income climbed 2.2 percent, to $1.12 billion, or $1.15 a share, compared with $1.09 billion, or $1.09 a share, in the period a year earlier, as domestic package revenue increased. Volume gains there were driven by lightweight shipments from online retailers to their customers, U.P.S. said.
Total revenue climbed 1.2 percent, to $13.3 billion, U.P.S. said. Growth was slower than last quarter's 4.4 percent expansion partly because of customers using cheaper shipment options.
U.P.S., considered an economic bellwether because it moves goods ranging from financial documents to pharmaceuticals, projects the United States economy will expand 1 percent in the rest of the year. Premium-product growth will slow as customers choose cheaper ways to ship, the company's chief financial officer, Kurt Kuehn, said on a call with analysts and investors.
''International volume is particularly weak,'' Kevin Sterling, an analyst at BB&T Capital Markets in Richmond, Va., said in a telephone interview. ''They are not immune from China softening and everything happening in Europe.''
International package sales dropped 4 percent, to $3.01 billion, as average daily volume was little changed and currency fluctuations damped revenue, the company said. Supply chain and freight sales fell 1.6 percent as excess capacity for Asian exports pressured pricing.
FedEx, the operator of the biggest cargo airline, has encountered similar pressures. Last month, the company cited Europe's debt crisis and a slowdown in Asia when it gave a smaller profit forecast than analysts estimated for the fiscal year ending in May.
Shares of U.P.S. dropped $3.61, or 4.63 percent, to $74.34.
U.P.S., which is seeking to expand in Europe with the $6.5 billion acquisition of TNT Express, said it expected to complete the purchase in the fourth quarter. The deal is the biggest in the company's 105-year history.
''Europe continues to be a good story for us,'' the company's chief executive, Scott Davis, said on the call. ''Intraregional shipments are continuing to show growth.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PACKAGE SHIPPING (91%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); AIR FREIGHT (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); DEBT CRISIS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CURRENCIES (65%); EURO CRISIS (64%); INTERNET RETAILING (55%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (59%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (59%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (59%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (59%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (59%)

PERSON: D SCOTT DAVIS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (74%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



916 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 435 words

HEADLINE: The Troubled Minds of Mass Killers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''More Treatment Programs'' (column, July 24):
David Brooks is correct to say that the derangements of spree killers are psychological, not sociological. But our laws can do a great deal to affect their methods. Sensible gun control legislation is the difference between a killer with a handgun or an assault rifle; a killer with 10 bullets or a thousand; a killer who must wait months, increasing the chance his illness will be detected, or a killer who can strike tomorrow. 
While these changes cannot eliminate spree killing entirely, they can mean the world to those who would have otherwise died in a more vicious, powerful or immediate attack.
LOUIS EVANS New York, July 24, 2012
To the Editor:
David Brooks uses a highfalutin argument that is nothing more than the old ''if guns are outlawed only outlaws will have guns'' argument. He cites examples of other countries where mass killings have occurred, noting that when they happen, there is no outcry for gun control.
There are two reasons for that: one, unlike the United States, they already have gun control; and two, unlike in the United States, these are rare shootings.
At the very least we should ban assault weapons and enact strong penalties not just for their use but also for their sale.
TERRY SHAMES Berkeley, Calif., July 24, 2012
To the Editor:
David Brooks lays out the increases in rampage murders in recent decades and attributes these killings to severe psychopathology. But what accounts for the increases he shows? If anything, the identification and treatment of those with such disorders have improved during this time.
As a clinical psychologist, I have seen many attacks with fists, utensils and even the occasional chair, but fortunately not weapons designed for mass killing. The easy availability of guns and ammunition may not directly cause the rampage but makes individual torment far more lethal than it need be.
EDWIN B. FISHER Chapel Hill, N.C., July 24, 2012
To the Editor:
David Brooks correctly points to the need for more treatment programs for people with mental illnesses. Unfortunately, mental health services in the United States have lost over $4 billion in funding since the 2008 recession began.
Here in New Hampshire, my mental health center has had to cut services and increase caseloads while people in need of inpatient psychiatric beds wait for days or weeks. We need a significant reinvigoration of our community mental health system, which can be a critical element in keeping the public safe.
LOUIS JOSEPHSON Concord, N.H., July 24, 2012
The writer is chief executive of Riverbend Community Mental Health.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (91%); FIREARMS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (89%); MENTAL HEALTH (89%); PSYCHOLOGY (89%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (84%); MENTAL ILLNESS (78%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (77%); SHOOTINGS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); WRITERS (73%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: RIVERBEND COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH INC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (54%); CONCORD, NH, USA (51%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



917 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1286 words

HEADLINE: Virginia Developer Is on a Mission to Revive His Town

BYLINE: By MELENA RYZIK

 BODY:
ROANOKE, Va. -- The Kirk Avenue Music Hall, a four-year-old club named for its downtown block here, offers an unexpected perk to its performers: an apartment. For a night or so, before or after gracing the stage, artists stay at no charge in a loft a block away, signing the guest book with notes of gratitude.
''We don't have money, we don't have fame, so hospitality is really critical,'' said Ed Walker, the club's landlord and a founder.
It is hard to miss Mr. Walker's brand of hospitality on Kirk Avenue. He owns nine of its storefronts, turning what was a forlorn block not long ago into a social destination. The music hall doubles as a microcinema and event space. There is Lucky, a restaurant run by a touring rock band that decided to stay put, and Freckles, a cafe and vintage shop with monthly craft nights, whose owner called Mr. Walker the town's Jimmy Stewart, a favorite son and guiding light. 
It is hard to miss Mr. Walker in many corners of Roanoke, a valley town of 97,000 about four hours from Washington. Ringed by the Blue Ridge Mountains and for generations a successful rail hub, it now has a median income of about $35,000 and is trying to reinvent itself for a different economy: a medical school opened in 2010, and a bike shop is planning to move into the massive old transportation museum.
And Mr. Walker, 44, a former outsider-art dealer and a third-generation lawyer from a prominent local family, has emerged as a commercial developer with an unusual civic conscience. In less than a decade, he has bought more than a dozen disused historic buildings, renovated them and enticed people to live in them.
Thanks to Mr. Walker and other developers who followed suit, Roanoke's downtown has a livelier pulse, with nearly 1,200 residents this year, where once there were fewer than 10. Mr. Walker has made his spaces welcoming, handpicking chefs for restaurants and furnishing a pocket park with his children's swing sets. Coming attractions include a rock climbing gym.
With his wife, Katherine, and two young sons, he lives downtown himself and evangelizes about it to any visitor. Last fall he started what will be an annual conference in Roanoke, CityWorks (X)po, billed as exploring ''big ideas for small cities.''
''People think this is too good to be true,'' said Chris Morrill, the city manager. ''You have this developer who knows the finances, knows the law, knows how to do these historic renovations and is really committed to the community. It's real.''
Mr. Morrill added: ''When folks from other communities come in here and I show them some of the stuff that's Ed's doing, they're like, 'How can we clone this guy and bring him back to our community?' ''
Mr. Walker's conference is intended to share his blueprint for urban redevelopment, a field known as placemaking; he will study it at Harvard's Graduate School of Design this year, with a prestigious Loeb fellowship. But many towns already have their own version of Ed Walker, said Bruce Katz, a vice president at the Brookings Institution and founding director of the Brookings Metropolitan Policy Program, which focuses on cities. ''This is happening across the country,'' Mr. Katz said.
''What you're seeing is a group of vanguard developers and vanguard businesspeople who basically spot a trend and then double down or triple down with their own resources'' to buy property cheap, collaborating with like-minded leaders ''on the placemaking agenda,'' he said.
Examples abound: Mr. Katz pointed to changes in Buffalo and Detroit and plans by Tony Hsieh, the Zappos tycoon, to remake Las Vegas. ''It has been one or two people in particular cities taking the risk,'' he said.
''There's a profit motive for sure, but these are people committed to place,'' Mr. Katz added. ''This is no longer an idea or an aspiration. It's an out-and-out trend.''
In Roanoke, it started in 2002, when Mr. Walker began redeveloping Kirk Avenue. His first major residential renovation opened downtown in 2006, with million-dollar condominiums.
Old-guard Roanokers were quickly convinced that downtown was livable when Mr. Walker sold one of the first to Warner Dalhouse, a retired bank chairman, and his wife, Barbara, who use it as a Southern pied-a-terre. At 4,800 square feet, it is larger than their lake house nearby. ''We wanted it to look like a New York loft, and it does,'' Mr. Dalhouse said.
Mr. Walker's company converted an old cotton mill and a department store into apartments, some at the low end of market rates and some at the top. The next units will be in a former ice house on the Roanoke River, where the city's first waterfront restaurant will open.
Last year, after a $20 million renovation, the company reopened the Patrick Henry, once one of Roanoke's grandest hotels; its disrepair had taken a toll on civic pride. Now it once again has an elegant lobby, complete with a bar. Some of its 132 apartments are leased by a nearby nursing school for its students.
The building also houses the Music Place, an FM radio station that Mr. Walker bought last year just before it was forced to change formats. With its mix of indie, country and folk -- and thrice-weekly interviews with community leaders -- it fit with his notion to give Roanoke the feel of, as he grinningly puts it, a funky college town.
The radio station is just breaking even. The conference lost money, but Mr. Walker will hold it again -- it ''succeeded on a human level,'' he said. Otherwise, he is adamant that his projects must serve the bottom line.
He is keen to talk financing -- Virginia has generous tax credits for historic renovation, so he helped get a landmark designation for the Wasena neighborhood, where his river project is -- in hopes that it will teach others to follow in his footsteps as social entrepreneurs. ''Roanoke is a really good small-city laboratory,'' he said.
Mayor David Bowers praised Mr. Walker but said the city still had economic, educational and tourism challenges. ''We're not the destination that we should be,'' he said.
Even downtown, all is not rosy. Studio Roanoke, a nonprofit black box theater, closed this month because of a lack of money. (''It's not even bare bones,'' Melora Kordos, its artistic director, told The Roanoke Times. ''We're just a couple of femurs.'') And there are other signs of struggle, especially in areas that ring the city center, like southeast Roanoke.
Jason Garnett, a former projectionist and theater manager who programs Shadowbox, the movie night at Kirk Avenue Music Hall, makes ends meet with a job as an audio-visual coordinator at a local college.
''I can't afford to live downtown,'' said Mr. Garnett, a 36-year-old father of two. Still, he and his friends are committed to staying, starting even more community-run art spaces. ''We're trying to make Roanoke cool,'' he said.
There are indications that it is working. Since 2009, 25 restaurants have opened across 10 blocks downtown, many serving farm-to-table fare, bolstered by a long-running farmer's market. A glossy monthly devoted to the art scene, Via Noke Magazine, began publishing in June. There is an adult kickball league. It adds up to the kind of do-it-yourself creative change that Mr. Walker, a sometime skateboarder whose ethos is more Joe Strummer than Jane Jacobs, advocates.
For Mr. Morrill, the city manager, the developments have already had an impact on the town's psyche. ''Roanoke has this inferiority complex,'' he said. ''People would say, 'We could've been Charlotte if we'd had a bigger airport, or Greensboro or Asheville.' And Ed helped them realize, Roanoke is a pretty good place.''
He added: ''People aren't talking about what we're not anymore. Now they're talking about what we are. And that's a huge shift.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In less than a decade, Ed Walker, above, has renovated more than a dozen historic buildings, like the one at 618 Day Avenue, left. A farmer's market provides produce to local restaurants. (A11)
Community members involved in Roanoke's revitalization gathered last week at a building that is to become a rock climbing gym.
 Fork in the City serves pizza in what was once a rundown bar. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRAVIS DOVE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MOUNTAINS (87%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); RETAILERS (69%); CLIMBING (68%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (67%); LAWYERS (65%); ART DEALERS (64%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (63%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (95%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); APPALACHIAN MOUNTAINS (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



918 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Be Nice? No, It Damages Bottom Line

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER. 
Eduardo Porter, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
First came the unhelpful bank tellers. Then the unexplained monthly fees. Then the fumbled mortgage application.
When Richard X. Bove encountered this string of bad experiences at his Wells Fargo branch in suburban Tampa, he didn't sit quietly and fume like other Americans who have grown frustrated with their banks. He began by moving his business to a bank down the street -- then he used his platform as one of the nation's most outspoken bank analysts to tell his story to thousands of clients.
But instead of trashing the bank and its stock, Mr. Bove in his Tuesday note shared his latest epiphany: catering to customers may actually distract from the pursuit of making money in the new world of finance. What really matters, he now believes, is pushing products and managing risk. 
''I'm struck by the fact that the service is so bad, and yet the company is so good,'' said Mr. Bove, an analyst with Rochdale Securities. ''Whatever it is that drives people to do business with a given bank, in my mind, now has to be rethought.''
A Wells spokeswoman, Mary Eshet, said that the company would not comment on Mr. Bove's report but noted that, ''Customer service is incredibly important and central to our vision and values at Wells Fargo.''
Ms. Eshet pointed to the company's internal surveys of customers, which found that their satisfaction had reached a record high in the second quarter of 2012.
Mr. Bove has a history of taking controversial positions in his research reports. In one case, he provoked a Florida bank to sue him for defamation -- a case that was ultimately settled.
But Bove's defection from Wells highlights a broader tension in modern banking in the wake of the financial crisis. A Gallup poll in June showed that only 21 percent of Americans had confidence in banks, down 2 percentage points from a year earlier and way off the 41 percent in 2007 before the crisis.
This, however, has not stopped the nation's largest banks from growing in size and power.
Wells's deposits, for instance, have more than doubled since its purchase in 2008 of Wachovia, where Mr. Bove was a longtime customer. The popularity of Wells among investors recently pushed it past JPMorgan Chase to become the largest American bank by stock market capitalization.
But annual surveys by J. D. Power & Associates suggest that Wells has dragged down the formerly stellar customer satisfaction ratings of Wachovia. In 2007, Wachovia was among the most highly rated banks in the regions where it operated. This year, Wells got below-average customer service ratings in seven out of the 11 national regions where J. D. Power does its surveys, and was just above average in the other four. In Florida, where Mr. Bove lives, Wells was 10th out of 11 banks.
Mr. Bove noticed the difference even before the Wachovia signs had been taken down from his branch. As he tells it, the booth where a manager used to stand to greet customers was removed and replaced by a desk where an employee was selling bank products.
After a few bad experiences, Mr. Bove called Wells Fargo investor relations representatives and questioned statements from the bank's executives about the importance of customer service to the company. He said the representative told him that his branch was an anomaly.
But Mr. Bove said he soon began to realize that all the bank employees who were not catering to his whims were instead padding the company's bottom line.
''Spending time solving problems with people is not selling products,'' said Mr. Bove. ''It's wasting time.''
Mr. Bove upgraded his recommendation on Wells Fargo stock to a buy last year at about the same time that he began to move his personal bank accounts to a nearby JPMorgan Chase, where he said he is getting the kind of personal service he used to receive at Wachovia.
He decided to write Tuesday's note when Wells Fargo rejected his application to refinance his mortgage, even though he had already withdrawn the application.
''One of the core beliefs you have about any company is that the quality of their product is the determinant of the company's financial success,'' Mr. Bove said. ''The point is, it doesn't work here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard X. Bove, a bank analyst, said that coddling customers may actually have a negative effect on a company's bottom line. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHILLIPPE DIEDERICH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MARKETING SURVEYS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (75%); CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CONSUMER RATINGS & REVIEWS (75%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (75%); RISK MANAGEMENT (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (98%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (98%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



919 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: With Little Good News, Wall Street Pulls Back

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
A parade of grim news, from weak corporate earnings to a pullback at American factories to the deepening European debt crisis, sent investors fleeing stocks again on Tuesday.
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 104.14 points, or 0.82 percent, to 12,617.32. It was the third straight triple-digit point loss for the blue-chip index. The last time that happened was in September, when some feared that the United States was on the brink of another recession.
Lower earnings forecasts from corporate bellwethers like United Parcel Service, combined with the weak report on manufacturing, fed fears of more disappointing corporate results in the coming days. 
''Our guess is we haven't seen the worst,'' said Clark Yingst, chief market analyst at Joseph Gunnar, an investment bank.
Investors worldwide continued to sell stocks and seek the relative safety of United States government debt, sending the yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note to another record low.
Stocks fell from the start of trading after news that U.P.S. had cut its earnings forecast for all of 2012. The package delivery company said it expected global trade to slow even more than the global economy this year, a first since the financial crisis. U.P.S.'s stock fell $3.61, or 5 percent, to $74.34.
Also weighing on stocks, Spain's borrowing costs spiked as investors worried that country could become the latest in Europe to ask for a financial lifeline. Spain's banks have already received help from international lenders.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 12.21 points, or 0.9 percent, to 1,338.31. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 27.16 points. or 0.94 percent, to 2,862.99.
Early in the day, DuPont reported that its net income fell 3 percent for the second quarter on slower business in Europe and Asia. The chemical maker also reported revenue that fell short of Wall Street's expectations. DuPont's stock lost 97 cents, or 2 percent, to $47.74.
Adding to the jitters was a report from Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond indicated that manufacturing in the central Atlantic region was contracting. That followed reports of pullbacks in New York and Philadelphia.
After the market closed, investors got a rare dose of disappointing news from Apple. The consumer electronics giant reported earnings that badly missed analysts' expectations, sending the stock 5 percent lower in after-hours trading. Sales of iPhones came in at the low end of Wall Street's forecasts. The stock had closed up $2.91 to $600.92 in regular trading.
In Europe, the yield on the 10-year Spanish government bond rose to 7.53 percent, a dangerously high level. Investors also sold Italian government bonds, sending the yield on that country's 10-year bond up to 6.54 percent.
Late Monday, Moody's Investors Service issued a warning about the credit rating for Germany. Moody's anticipates that strong countries like Germany will have to shoulder a heavy financial burden as they support weaker countries like Spain and Italy. Moody's also said there was an ''increased likelihood'' that Greece would leave the euro zone.
''Things are only going to get worse,'' said Adrian Day, president of Adrian Day Investment Management. He added that he was not buying stocks, save for gold-related companies, because he expected them to head lower as the European debt crisis deepened.
As investors continued to shift from stocks to United States government debt, bond prices rallied as interest rates continued falling. On Tuesday, the price of the 10-year Treasury note rose 14/32, to 103 9/32, while its yield fell to another record low of 1.39 percent, from 1.44 percent late Monday.
In corporate news, AT&T and Whirlpool both fell short of analyst estimates of earnings and revenue. AT&T fell 75 cents, or 2 percent, to $34.63. Whirlpool, the appliance maker, dropped $5.06, or 7.5 percent, to $62.25.
Cisco Systems fell 6 percent, more than any of the 30 stocks in the Dow, after the network equipment maker announced its latest round of staff cuts. Cisco dropped 95 cents, to $15.12.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); DEBT CRISIS (90%); EURO CRISIS (90%); CORPORATE DEBT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (88%); TREASURY SECURITIES (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%); ELECTRONICS (73%); CHEMICALS MFG (72%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (70%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (70%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); FOREIGN LENDING (65%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); SMARTPHONES (60%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (63%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); SPAIN (93%); ASIA (79%); ITALY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



920 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; THE POUR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2024 words

HEADLINE: Wine's Sweet Spot Is a $20 Bill

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
WHAT'S the right price for a bottle of wine? Silly question, I know. All sorts of prices are right, depending on the quality of the wine, the scarcity, the demand and other economic, social and psychological imperatives.
Strictly speaking, a wine can be a great value at $10 or $200, though for most of us, a steal at $200 is small consolation, like a $5 million apartment deemed an excellent deal because its price has dropped by half.
Beyond the realm of the theoretical, though, there are wine bull's-eyes where high values intersect with low prices. On the low end, that sweet spot ranges from $15 to $25; practically speaking, let's call it $20.
Now I admit: $20 a bottle is not cheap. For that price, you could buy 10 bottles of Two-Buck Chuck, headaches no extra charge! For a little more (say, $10 a bottle), you can find wine that is perfectly palatable. But is palatable good enough? 
Not for me. I want wine that excites me, that feels so good to drink that one sip urges on the next and the next after that. I want a wine that tells a story of a place and a people and a culture, that is not the predictable equivalent of a franchise restaurant but more like a little mom-and-pop's, where you're not always sure what you'll find but you know it can have the capacity to inspire.
You might be able to find a bottle like that for $10. But it's rarer than you think. At $15 to $25, though, the odds swing decidedly in your favor. With a little experience, you can find dozens of joyous bottles, plucked carefully from the ranks of the routine.
Touring a few shops in Manhattan last week, I was overwhelmed with good choices, reds and whites, sparklers and roses. I culled 20 excellent bottles that are not only great for drinking now, in the oppressive heat, but throughout the year. Many are from small family domains, the equivalent of handmade wines, but not all. Size is not always a bad thing, as long as the wines express the regional flavor.
You will not find Napa cabernet, Barolo or Champagne at the $20 sweet spot, though I did include one Burgundy, from Chablis. Instead, you'll find wines from less renowned regions, like Santorini and Corsica, and some with no official appellation at all, either because the wines do not conform to established styles, or because a producer chose not to deal with an entrenched bureaucracy. You'll also find many unfamiliar grapes, which is one reason these are great values, as the soothing familiarity of cabernet sauvignon or pinot noir is often enough to add a few bucks to the price.
MEMORABLE BOTTLES FOR $20
Francois Pinon Vouvray Brut NV
A richer sparkling wine that is nonetheless dry, snappy, pure and precise with an undertone of honey, the gorgeous signature of the chenin blanc grape. Francois Pinon, one of my favorite Vouvray producers, has a knack for coaxing the perfect combination of voluptuous body and laserlike focus from chenin blanc. LOUIS/DRESSNER SELECTIONS
Domaine de l'Octavin Arbois The Peteux NV
This frothy sparkling chardonnay from the Jura is exuberant and floral yet dry, steely and absolutely delicious, perfect for a lunch outdoors. Octavin is a small, rather new estate started by a young couple, Alice Bouvot and Charles Dagand. They are devoted to natural winemaking, and the Peteux is a petillant naturel. Rather than bottling finished wine with yeast and sugar in the manner of Champagne, which induces a second fermentation to produce bubbles, a petillant naturel is bottled before the first fermentation is complete, producing a softer fizz. ZEV ROVINE SELECTIONS, NEW YORK
La Clarine Farm Sierra Foothills Rose 2011
This is not one of those onion-skin-colored roses from Provence, which epitomize the Mediterranean style. It's darker, a pale ruby blend of syrah and mourvedre grown in the Sierra Foothills, most often the source of bold, powerful zinfandels. This wine is a lesson in balance and elegance, dry and mineral, light enough for an aperitif yet substantial enough to drink throughout a meal.
Donnhoff Nahe Estate Riesling 2011
Donnhoff is one of the great riesling producers. The estate riesling is a blend of grapes from several different sites and offers more than initially meets the eye. Poured directly from a chilled bottle, it seems gently pleasant and lightly sweet at first. But as the wine warms up, its elegant nature becomes apparent, and a richness and rocky minerality emerge. TERRY THEISE ESTATE SELECTIONS/MICHAEL SKURNIK WINES, SYOSSET, N.Y.
Nusserhof Vino Rosso Elda 2009
I love the wines of Nusserhof, from the Tyrolean region of northeastern Italy. They are always pure and honest, and the 2009 Elda is no exception. It is made of schiava, a workhorse grape in the Trentino-Alto Adige area but rarely seen on these shores. It's lightly fruity, with touches of olives and herbs, slightly reminiscent of a northern Rhone syrah, though less dense and structured. LOUIS/DRESSNER SELECTIONS
Edmunds St. John El Dorado County Bone-Jolly Gamay Noir 2009
Steve Edmunds is one of the iconoclasts of California, dedicated to gentle, insightful wines rather than blockbusters. He is also one of the few American winemakers who seek out gamay, the grape of Beaujolais, which he gets from El Dorado County high in the California gold country. The 2009 is spicy, fruity, light and inviting.
Josep Foraster Conca De Barbera Trepat 2010
This is a rare red made of 100 percent trepat, grown in the Catalonian region of Conca de Barbera in northeastern Spain. Usually, trepat is blended into roses and cava. On its own, it is pale, fresh, light and cherry-scented, with a touch of bitter chocolate, delightful when lightly chilled. From 50-year-old vines. T. EDWARD WINES, NEW YORK
Burlotto Langhe Freisa 2010
The Piedmont region of northwestern Italy is best known for its nebbiolos and barberas, but oddball grapes like the freisa lurk there as well. Burlotto makes excellent Barolos, yet its 2010 Langhe freisa is fascinating. It's reminiscent of nebbiolo with its combination of textural lightness, firm tannins and deep flavors, and if it is maybe more Naugahyde than leather, it's perfect for burgers and sausages off the grill. It might even benefit from another year of aging. BACCHANAL WINE IMPORTS, PORT CHESTER, N.Y.
Guy Bossard Domaine de L'Ecu Muscadet de Sevre-et-Maine Expression d'Orthogneiss 2010
Muscadet is perennially a great value, and the Muscadets from Guy Bossard's Domaine de l'Ecu are among the best. He makes three cuvees named after different soils, which, if you care to compare them, offer a quick lesson in terroir. The Expression d'Orthogneiss is pure and limpid, with an ample richness that belies its sheer texture. Yes, it's delicious now, but (lean in close) good Muscadet like this one will age and improve for years. CHARTRAND IMPORTS, ROCKLAND, ME
Gilbert Picq et Ses Fils Chablis 2010
I love Chablis and am grateful that it remains perhaps the best value in Burgundy. Few wines are as instantly identifiable as Chablis, with its austere, chalky flavors that seem derived (in the imagination, at least) from the zillions of fossilized shells found in its soils. As a simple Chablis, this wine naturally doesn't have the richness and intensity that you might find in a premier cru, the next step up, but it nonetheless offers an excellent introduction. POLANER SELECTIONS, MOUNT KISCO, N.Y.
La Rioja Alta Rioja Reserva Vina Alberdi Seleccion Especial 2005
Most of the wines on this list are of recent vintage, but the Vina Alberdi Reserva is aged before its release, as was once traditional with Rioja Reservas. The result is a seven-year-old wine, delicious now but capable of further aging. Unlike La Rioja Alta's other cuvees, the Alberdi is 100 percent tempranillo and offers a classic profile of mellow fruit framed by vanilla from American oak. Beautifully integrated, lively and lovely. MICHAEL SKURNIK WINES
Produttori del Barbaresco Langhe Nebbiolo 2010
Produttori del Barbaresco is one of the world's finest wine co-ops, offering great values throughout its range. The Langhe nebbiolo is generally made from the grapes of young vines, or grapes that for one reason or another don't go into the Barbarescos. This is a lighter gauge than a true Barbaresco but still offers all the classic leather, floral and red fruit flavors. VIAS IMPORTS, NEW YORK
Olivier Lemasson Vin de France Poivre et Sel 2011
Vibrant and spicy, light, bright and pure. Poivre et Sel hails from the Touraine region of the Loire Valley, source of many great values, and is made of the obscure pineau d'aunis grape, with a little gamay thrown in. Like all of Olivier Lemasson's wines, it is produced with no added sulfur as a stabilizer, so store in a cool area. Better yet, drink up, lightly chilled. LOUIS/DRESSNER SELECTIONS
Argyros Santorini Assyrtiko 2010
Over the last few years I've fallen in love with the dry assyrtiko wines from the Greek island of Santorini. These wines, made from grapes trained to hug the volcanic soils as protection from the fierce ocean winds, offer an almost tactile sensation that prickles the mouth, as if the liquid were condensed from millions of microscopic sea pebbles. This one is fresh and fragrant, with a touch of citrus and tropical fruit flavor. ATHENEE IMPORTERS, HEMPSTEAD, N.Y.
Domaine Vico Corsica 2010
You'd expect a wine from Corsica to be a little rough-hewn, no? This is made of the nielluciu grape, sometimes rendered nielluccio, said to be a Corsican synonym for sangiovese. But this wine tastes nothing like Tuscan sangiovese. It's deep, rich and mouth-filling, with an aroma of licorice; tannic yet expressive and pleasing. While it cries out for scrubby hillsides and the Mediterranean, I'll settle for spit-roasted lamb. WINEBERRY AMERICA, VALLEY COTTAGE, N.Y.
Denis Jamain Domaine de Reuilly Les Pierres Plates 2009
It's often said that the whites of Chablis and Sancerre have a lot in common because of their similar soils, despite the differences between chardonnay and sauvignon blanc, their constituent grapes. Well, nobody could mistake this sauvignon blanc from Reuilly, a neighbor of Sancerre, for a Chablis. The ripe 2009 vintage amplifies the vivid pungency of the sauvignon blanc, though it can't quite obscure its underlying savory mineral flavors. KERMIT LYNCH WINE MERCHANT, BERKELEY, CALIF.
Jean-Paul Brun Domaine des Terres Dorees Cote de Brouilly 2010
Year after year, Domaine des Terres Dorees is one of my favorite Beaujolais producers. Jean-Paul Brun is defiantly old school, employing straightforward Burgundian techniques rather than the prevailing method in Beaujolais of semi-carbonic fermentation. His wines are capable of aging, yet enjoyable young as well. The Cote de Brouilly is fresh, energetic and spicy, light but intense and very fine. LOUIS/DRESSNER SELECTIONS, NEW YORK
Gunderloch Rheinhessen Riesling Kabinett Jean-Baptiste 2010
The 2010 vintage in Germany is considered one of the strangest (freakish, even), resulting in wines with absurdly high levels of acidity and unexpected amounts of sweetness. Somehow, Fritz and Agnes Hasselbach of Gunderloch managed to make a wine that tastes perfectly balanced. This is fruity, earthy and slightly sweet, as befits a kabinett wine. Pure pleasure. RUDI WIEST/CELLARS INTERNATIONAL, SAN MARCOS, CALIF.
Ameztoi Getariako Txakolina 2011
Txakolina (pronounced chock-oh-LEE-nah) is the traditional wine of Spanish Basque Country. While it may be consumed year-round in San Sebastian, it's obscure elsewhere, even in the rest of Spain. Yet unexpectedly, Americans have fallen in love with these wines, especially the lightly sparkling versions from the Getaria region like this one, which is tangy, zesty and bone dry, with a saline edge that is perfect for shellfish. DE MAISON SELECTIONS, CHAPEL HILL, N.C.
Tablas Creek Vineyard Paso Robles Patelin de Tablas Blanc 2010
This estate, dedicated to making southern Rhone-style wines in the central coast region of California, keep getting better and better. Patelin de Tablas Blanc is a blend of four Rhone grapes: grenache blanc, viognier, roussanne and marsanne. The result is a structured, fresh, crisp and focused wine with a fine balance between lively fruit and herbal flavors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES(D1
 D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); WINE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); FRANCHISING (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



921 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: New York Fed Faces Questions Over Policing Wall St.

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
As the Federal Reserve Bank of New York faced criticism for missing a multibillion-dollar trading loss at JPMorgan Chase, the regulator convened a town hall meeting in May to bolster employee morale.
Two months later, the New York Fed staff huddled again, after lawmakers questioned why the regulator had failed to rein in banks that manipulated key interest rates.
''We were told to keep our heads down and stay focused,'' said one person present at the July meeting who requested anonymity because the gathering was not public.
The New York Fed, whose weaknesses were first exposed when the financial crisis hit, is undergoing a new trial by fire as it grapples with how to police Wall Street. While the regulator has revamped its approach to overseeing the nation's biggest banks since the crisis, recent black eyes suggest that fundamental problems persist. 
Lawmakers will most likely focus on the record of the New York Fed when Timothy F. Geithner, the regulator's former president, testifies on Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee. Mr. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary, will appear before a Senate panel on Thursday.
The regional Fed bank, by virtue of its location in Lower Manhattan, is on the front line of financial regulation. With examiners stationed inside the banks, the regulator has a wide window into the inner workings of these institutions.
But the New York Fed does not have enforcement power like many American regulators. Instead, it reports potential wrongdoing to other agencies or the central bank, the Federal Reserve, and leaves its counterparts to dole out punishments if necessary.
The New York Fed's mission, officials say, is to broadly protect the health and safety of the financial system - not to micromanage individual banks.
''They focus on safety and soundness of the banks, which ultimately means they are not particularly focused on market manipulation,'' said Sheila C. Bair, the former chairwoman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, another regulator.
In recent years, the New York Fed has beefed up oversight. Under the president, William C. Dudley, the regulator has increased the expertise of its examiners and hired new senior officials.
Even so, the JPMorgan debacle and the interest-rate investigation have raised questions about the New York Fed. They highlight how the regulator is hampered by its lack of enforcement authority and dogged by concerns that it is overly cozy with the banks.
Mr. Geithner is expected to face questions from lawmakers on Wednesday about the rate-rigging inquiry that has ensnared more than a dozen big banks. In June, Barclays agreed to pay $450 million to authorities for manipulating the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.
Since the settlement, Mr. Geithner has heralded his efforts to reform the rate-setting process in 2008. But the New York Fed, which knew Barclays had been reporting false rates at the time, did not stop the actions.
And when Mr. Geithner briefed other American regulators about Libor in May 2008, he did not disclose the specific wrongdoing, according to people briefed on the meeting. In later briefings, New York Fed officials did warn their counterparts about ''allegations of misreporting.''
''The regulator has an obligation to make a criminal referral if it suspects a crime may have occurred,'' said Bart Dzivi, who served as special counsel to the Federal Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission. ''How this doesn't rise to that level, simply boggles the mind.''
The New York Fed has been engulfed by controversy since the financial crisis. Mr. Geithner was one of many regulators who had underestimated certain risks spreading through the financial system, saying in a May 2007 speech that ''financial innovation has improved the capacity to measure and manage risk'' while acknowledging that threats remained. In late 2008, the system nearly collapsed after Lehman Brothers failed.
This year, the New York Fed was again caught off guard when JPMorgan disclosed the trading losses, which have already exceeded $5 billion. The regulator has assigned about 40 examiners to the bank, but none of the officials kept close tabs on the chief investment office, the powerful unit that placed the ill-fated trade.
In the case of Libor, the New York Fed took a somewhat passive approach. Despite mounting evidence of problems, the agency focused on policy solutions rather than the wrongdoing.
People close to the Fed note that, at the time, the regulator was primarily concerned with saving Wall Street from collapse. And the regulator pushed harder than its British counterparts, records show. Mr. Geithner urged British authorities to ''eliminate incentive to misreport'' Libor, which affects the cost of trillions of dollars in mortgages and other loans.
Some New York Fed examiners are now focused on how the Libor investigation could damage the bottom line at banks like Citigroup and JPMorgan. The examiners, people briefed on the matter say, are assessing whether banks need to build reserves against the growing threat of lawsuits.
The concerns echo the New York Fed's broader moves to enhance supervision. After the crisis, the Fed formed a special team to spot emerging risks. Mr. Dudley also appointed a new head of bank supervision, Sarah J. Dahlgren, who first joined the Fed more than two decades ago after working as a budget official at Rikers Island jail.
In recent years, the New York Fed has doubled the number of on-site examiners and dispatched some of its most senior officials to big banks. The lead supervisors at each bank are some of the most ''battle tested'' and sophisticated regulators who are comfortable challenging Wall Street executives, one regulator said.
The New York Fed also notes that it has delved deeper into internal bank data, focusing on business units that generate the most revenue and risk. To better prepare the industry for sudden losses, the regulator has pushed banks to build extra capital.
But there are limits to its power. Despite its leading role in policing the banks, the New York Fed cannot levy fines. When examiners do detect questionable behavior, they often push the company to adopt changes. If the wrongdoing persists, officials can pass along the case to the Federal Reserve board in Washington.
It is up to the central bank to take action. The Fed, which can impose fines and cease-and-desist orders, filed 171 enforcement actions last year. The cases are down 44 percent from the year before, but the actions have increased sharply from the precrisis era.
Some critics also contend there is a revolving door between Wall Street and the New York Fed. Mr. Dudley was formerly the chief domestic economist at Goldman Sachs, and his wife collects deferred compensation from her days at JPMorgan. After Bear Stearns collapsed in 2008, the New York Fed hired the firm's chief risk officer.
The New York Fed does limit the influence of employees who depart for a career on Wall Street. Some former senior officials cannot discuss regulatory matters with the Fed for up to a year. As an extra measure, examiners rotate between banks every three to five years to prevent a clubby culture from forming.
But some experts say the problem is not solved.
''It's a cultural problem at all the banking regulators,'' said Ms. Bair, who is now a senior adviser to the Pew Charitable Trusts. ''There's not a healthy separation, and you can see that in their hiring practices.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: William C. Dudley of the New York Federal Reserve. (B1)
Under William C. Dudley, the New York Fed has increased the expertise of its examiners and hired new senior officials. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT EELLS/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Sarah J. Dahlgren first joined the Fed more than two decades ago after working as a budget official at Rikers Island. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, will answer questions from lawmakers on Wednesday and Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY DOWNING/REUTERS) (B4) CHARTS: Libor and the Financial Crisis: FAILING INSTITUTIONS
ACTIONS TAKEN BY THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT
 ACTIONS TAKEN BY CENTRAL BANKS IN EUROPE AND THE WORLD (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); WORKPLACE MORALE (77%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); INTERBANK LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (64%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (64%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (64%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (89%); SHEILA BAIR (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



922 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: Louisville, Ky., Stakes Future on Care for Elderly

BYLINE: By KEITH SCHNEIDER

 BODY:
LOUISVILLE, Ky. -- This entrepreneurial city, the largest along the 981-mile Ohio River, is adept at understanding how geography, resources and new markets can be turned into business opportunities.
Good grass-strengthened thoroughbreds have competed at the Kentucky Derby since 1875. Ample labor at competitive cost made Louisville a manufacturing center, led by Ford, which has kept big assembly plants open here since 1916. And a location along the Ohio River, and near the continental center, turned Louisville into a transport hub, reflected in United Parcel Service's state-of-the-art package sorting and distribution center at Louisville International Airport.
Now an eight-story commercial office and laboratory building nearing completion in the central business district signals the steady expansion of the city's biggest new economic sector -- a field local development specialists call ''lifelong wellness and aging care.'' 
The building will be the fourth and, at 200,000 square feet, by far the largest in the city's Nucleus Innovation Park, a 10-acre downtown site focused on incubating and promoting new companies that manufacture health care products and develop practices for older people, and research into aging and retirement.
When it is completed next year, the $38 million building, developed by the University of Louisville with help from the city, will house the offices of assisted care companies and be part of the city's care for the aging cluster. Tenants will include Signature HealthCare, which moved its headquarters here from South Florida in 2010 to take advantage of $4 million in city income tax credits. Signature, which had $694.9 million in revenue last year, operates 72 long-term care centers in six states and employs 1,100 people in the Louisville area.
The building also will contain a center to help develop start-up health technology and services companies, an exhibition hall for innovative products and practices in the care-for-aging sector, and a state-supported office to help finance new companies.
''We like the demographics, the aging baby boom, that form the market,'' said Greg Fischer, Louisville's first-term Democratic mayor, who is chairman of the Nucleus board. ''This market is growing. We have the national leaders in aging care here. We like our place in this field.''
Eileen Pickett, executive vice president of Greater Louisville Inc., the city's economic development agency, added that the project had an important cultural goal. ''We want to help make retirement and aging cool,'' she said, without a trace of irony.
Louisville has more than 500 companies that specialize in building and managing assisted living centers, providing health insurance and home health care, designing medical equipment and developing health information management systems. These companies employ more than 20,000 professional-level workers, according to city figures, and form the largest concentration of aging-care companies in the United States.
Many of the largest companies that were founded here -- Humana, Atria Senior Living, Kindred Healthcare -- and a significant number of smaller businesses oversee internal research groups to develop medicine, equipment, housing designs, specialized foods, care practices, appliances and management techniques aimed at helping Americans add active years to their lives. Many work with researchers at the University of Louisville, which has emerged as a leader in care for the elderly, gerontology and geriatric medicine.
City officials estimated that 20 companies involved in care for the aging are founded in Louisville each year. Nucleus Innovation Park aims to draw more of those companies closer to one another and to the university to foster innovation and commercialization of new products.
Vickie Yates Brown, the president and chief executive of Nucleus Innovation Park, said 70 percent of the new building was already leased. In May, the university announced plans for a second building, though the date for construction to start has not been set. Two 15-story, 170,000-square-foot towers also are planned for the park, which will eventually total one million square feet. The total real estate investment could reach $1 billion, Ms. Brown said.
The numbers reflect the strengthening of Louisville's economy and a surge in real estate investment that has improved the region's job market.
For example, General Electric, which opened the 1,000-acre Appliance Park here in 1953 and now employs 5,000 workers at the park, is in the midst of an $800 million program to retrofit buildings to make new types of appliances. Two plants to make energy-efficient water heaters and refrigerator/freezers opened this year, and G.E. said it had hired nearly 900 workers and would hire several hundred more.Ford just finished spending $600 million to retool and modernize its Escape assembly plant, a project that added 1,800 jobs. The company said it would hire 1,300 more people by the end of the year, when a third shift is added, bringing the total employment to 4,200. Ford also announced it was spending $600 million to retrofit a separate truck assembly plant here that will add 350 workers, bringing the total to 4,150.
The Louisville metropolitan region, which includes neighboring counties across the river in Indiana, added 21,000 jobs from January to May, according to the federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. In that period the jobless rate fell from 9.6 percent to 8.1 percent, bringing it just under the national rate of 8.2 percent.
''It's a city and a part of the country that the rest of America doesn't hear about much,'' said John Moore, the chief of Atria Senior Living, who moved here from New York to lead the company, which operates independent and assisted living residences in 27 states. ''Louisville helped this industry grow, and it's reaping the benefits now.''
Strong job and unemployment numbers are now seen in other cities along the Ohio River, a six-state corridor that for two generations encompassed the rust belt but now includes areas that lead the nation in generating jobs. Owensboro, Ky., downstream from Louisville, had a 6.6 percent jobless rate in May, like Pittsburgh, where the Ohio River starts. In West Virginia, Wheeling's jobless rate was 7 percent.
Ohio generated 100,000 jobs from June 2011 to June 2012, and ranked fourth in job generation, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, behind Texas, California and New York. Indiana generated 51,600 jobs in that period, ranking 10th.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This office building will anchor Nucleus Innovation Park, 10 acres in Louisville, Ky., focused on companies geared to older people. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL CLEVENGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); GEOGRAPHY (90%); AGING (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); HORSE RACING (77%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (76%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); NEW PRODUCTS (74%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); AGING TRENDS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (71%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (70%); AIRPORTS (70%); MAYORS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (50%); INCOME TAX (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF LOUISVILLE (54%)

TICKER: UPS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (57%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (99%) KENTUCKY, USA (99%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



923 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; SUMMER NIGHTS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: For Money or Just to Strut, Living Out Loud on a Transgender Stage

BYLINE: By SARAH MASLIN NIR

 BODY:
There are two Christopher Streets in the West Village. One is the precious scene of overpriced coffee and its drinkers, of designer shops and map-clutching tourists. Then there is the one that appears every summer: Christopher Street after nightfall.
So said Desire, a 20-year-old transgender woman, as she stood in a doorwell on Christopher just before midnight on a recent Thursday. Threading a comb through her long hair, she talked about the nocturnal version as scores of her friends strutted past in the dark, stopping often to air kiss, catcall or sometimes brawl. This second street belongs to Desire and her peers, who congregate here from across the region to promenade the night away on the city's transgender runway. 
The women, who refer to themselves as T-girls and go by colorful pseudonyms, take to Christopher Street each night for many reasons. Many are working as prostitutes, said Star, 22, clad in a skintight candy-striped dress, as she leaned against a prewar apartment building where some studios rent for $3,700 a month.
''Some of them come here for fun, some of them come down to make their money,'' she said. ''I'm not going to sugarcoat it.''
But here in New York City's historic gay corridor, blocks from the Stonewall Inn -- the site of the country's first gay rights uprising in 1969 and the same place where thousands spontaneously converged last June to celebrate the legalization of same-sex marriage in New York State -- reducing the scene to one of vice is to get only part of the picture.
''There are Little Italys everywhere in the world, there are little Chinatowns everywhere in the world,'' said Mariah Lopez, 27, a transgender-rights activist who is ubiquitous after dark on Christopher. ''This is the only place that we can specifically lay claim to for historical reasons.''
While some of the T-girls live as women, others do so only here, fleeing for a time their homes in, say, the South Bronx or in New Jersey, where it may be too dangerous to be publicly transgender, they explain. For them, Desire said, ''it's like: 'Oh my God, I can be gay? Out here in the street? And we can kiss and hug?' ''
When Bianka Van Kartier, who lives in New Jersey but is originally from St. Thomas, V.I., visited the street four years ago, it changed her life, she said. She became a fixture.
''I was just mesmerized by the freedom to be gay and to just live out loud,'' she said. ''I came the following day, and I stayed for hours.'' This fall, she said, she plans to compete in a pageant for the title of Ms. Gay Caribbean. ''I was so blown away,'' she said. ''I'm from the Caribbean -- you have to hide.''
In platform thigh-high boots, buttocks-revealing denim shorts, red-pleather boleros with matching caps and tops of the backless, sleeveless or even frontless variety, those on the nightly parade here do anything but hide. They compete for best outfit, and for best moves in the nightly dance battles that rage beside the Hudson River to the sound of a boombox on the pier at the end of the street. The night is spent flitting from street corner to late-night pizza shop, brightly colored like flocks of exotic -- if risque -- parakeets, sometimes herded along by silently flashing police patrol cars that stalk the street.
But while the T-girls are often beautiful, none deny that most nights here are fraught with ugliness, borne of both of the trade many ply and the cliquish rivalries that spiral into violence. Many have had their hair ripped and skin slashed by a rival's brightly painted nails. ''We're fighting over 'he said-she said,' '' Star said. ''It's crazy; it's petty.''
George Karam, 50, who manages Rivoli Pizza near Christopher Street, a favorite after-hours hangout, said he had drinks thrown over him by unruly customers. ''Every summer, I have a lot of problems,'' Mr. Karam said.
There was a violent episode at a Dunkin' Donuts on Christopher last year. The police place giant spotlights in the warm months at two ends of the street, to discourage crime.
Nevertheless, those who prowl Christopher defend the nightly ritual. ''This is historically a unique community on the planet,'' said Ms. Lopez, ''where a subgroup of people in a specific city have it as theirs but don't have an economic stake.''
''The reason you buy your $2 million condo is because it is the historical West Village, and the reason it is the historical West Village is because of us,'' she continued, before being cut off. A passer-by on Christopher interjected to berate her for a past slight.
It was past midnight. The screaming fight lasted for blocks, all the way to the river and into the night.
Summer Nights: This is the fifth in a series of articles exploring how people in the New York City area spend their summers after dark.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hanging out near a subway stop in the West Village on a recent Friday, part of the nighttime summer scene on Christopher Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRANSGENDER PERSONS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); PROSTITUTION (68%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (65%); MARRIAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



924 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 862 words

HEADLINE: Hiding In Plain Sight

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON
If I closed my eyes, and added a creepy monotone, I could have been listening to Dick Cheney.
The Republican speaker at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Reno, Nev., was slashing the president with jingoistic jingles: Obama is ashamed of America, an apologist sapping the greatness of a country that is the greatest force for good the world has ever known, a weakling marring the American Century by gutting the military and the economy. And, on top of that, the Obama White House doesn't know how to keep stuff secret.
Prodded by conservatives to attack the president more aggressively, the ever malleable Mitt Romney obliged Tuesday at the V.F.W., spouting chest-thumping cliches about putting ''resolve in our might.'' That resolve evidently doesn't include Mitt, who passed on Vietnam, or his five strapping sons, none of whom have volunteered for the volunteer military. 
It was at the V.F.W. convention in 2002 when Cheney, who got five deferments from Vietnam, set the gold standard for mindless belligerence, pushing pre-emptive action in Iraq. ''Simply stated,'' he said, ''there is no doubt that Saddam Hussein now has weapons of mass destruction.'' The Arab street, he knew, would erupt in joy when we invaded.
In his speech, Romney demanded that any Obama administration leakers of classified information be found and punished because ''the time for stonewalling is over,'' ''Americans are entitled to know'' and Americans deserve ''a full and prompt accounting of the facts.''
After the speech, Eric Edelman, a Romney campaign adviser, chimed in on ferreting out Obama leakers in a press release; unfortunately, BuzzFeed soon pointed out that Edelman ''was implicated in the country's last major national security leak investigation -- the outing of C.I.A. agent Valerie Plame'' when he served under former Cheney aide Scooter Libby in W.'s administration.
Romney is so secretive that he's beginning to make the uber-clandestine Cheney look like The Bachelorette.
The Boston Globe reported Tuesday that although Romney promised ''complete transparency'' when he stepped in to save the Salt Lake City Olympics, he became a black hole: ''Some who worked with Romney describe a close-to-the-vest chief executive unwilling to share so much as a budget with a state board responsible for spending oversight. Archivists now say most key records about the Games' internal workings were destroyed under the supervision of a staffer shortly after the flame was extinguished at Olympic Cauldron Park, after Romney had returned to Massachusetts.'' (Wouldn't it have been simpler to just burn the records in the flame?)
The public still can't see the records, stored at the University of Utah's J. Willard Marriott library, named for the same man as Willard Mitt Romney.
Andrea Saul, a Romney spokeswoman, said that Mitt resigned from the Olympics job in early 2002 to run for governor of Massachusetts and ''was not involved in the decision-making regarding the final disposition of records.''
Who was responsible for the final disposition? A former colleague at Bain Capital, Fraser Bullock, who succeeded Romney in the Olympic post. Ah, the old Bain handoff.
Romney spent $100,000 in state funds to replace office computers at the end of his term as governor and on the cusp of his 2008 presidential race, ''as part of an unprecedented effort to keep his records secret,'' reported Mark Hosenball of Reuters. Eleven Romney aides ''bought the hard drives of their state-issued computers to keep for themselves,'' Hosenball wrote. ''Also before he left office, the governor's staff had e-mails and other electronic communications by Romney's administration wiped from the state servers, state officials say. Those actions erased much of the internal documentation of Romney's four-year tenure as governor.''
It seems antithetical to Mormonism, since the Mormon Church loves to save documents, keeping 35 billion images of genealogical information and records on church history in the Granite Mountain Records Vault near Salt Lake City.
Doesn't Mitt have space in that split-level, four-car garage elevator in La Jolla for a little deep-storage?
As Maggie Haberman observed in Politico, Romney has made a calculated decision to hide three major elements of his background: his Mormonism, his record at Bain and his time as governor. This creates, she wrote, ''a kind of self-imposed paralysis on biographical messaging that some observers, including Republicans, say may wound his campaign in an era in which voters want to achieve a kind of unprecedented intimacy with their candidates.''
Former rival Newt Gingrich told Politico Tuesday that Romney needs to relax and let people see who he is, noting that, except for family, ''there's a place where Mitt clearly doesn't let people get.''
So far, Mitt's casting a shadowy silhouette, hiding his fortune in foreign tax havens, hiding tax returns, destroying and hiding records as head of the Olympics and as governor, hiding a specific sense of where he would take the country.
Americans don't want to play hide-and-seek with their presidential candidates. Romney should listen to himself: The time for stonewalling is over.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); CONSERVATISM (73%); VOLUNTEERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); DICK CHENEY (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); RENO, NV, USA (73%) NEVADA, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



925 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: The Candidates Talk Foreign Policy

 BODY:
The presidential candidates took a break this week from talking about the economy, the most important issue in the election, and turned to foreign policy. This was a chance for Mitt Romney to show that he could be a better international leader than President Obama, who has already proved himself in that field. He fell far short.
Mr. Romney spoke about foreign affairs on Tuesday to the Veterans of Foreign Wars, which Mr. Obama addressed on Monday. There was a contrast, but not in favor of Mr. Romney, who is still struggling to differentiate himself. Even some of his advisers, when interviewed, have been unable to explain exactly what he would do differently on many issues, and, where he does draw a line, his positions are mostly troubling or unconvincing. 
He has, for example, struggled to play down the simple fact that Mr. Obama ordered the killing of Osama bin Laden. He has tried to focus instead on how details became public, accusing the administration of politically motivated leaks. ''It's a national security crisis,'' he told the V.F.W. With stunning overkill, he called for a special counsel to investigate an administration that has been more determined than most to find leakers.
Mr. Romney seemed just as disingenuous when he tried to blame Mr. Obama for $500 billion in automatic spending cuts that the Pentagon is facing over the next 10 years, beginning in January. He called them ''the president's radical cuts.'' In fact, it was Congressional Republicans who manufactured a crisis over the debt ceiling in 2010 and demanded passage of a budget bill that mandated the cuts to keep the government from defaulting.
For months, Mr. Romney has criticized Mr. Obama for failing to halt Iran's nuclear program, disparaged negotiations between Tehran and the major powers and offered the hollow pledge that Iran will not have a nuclear weapon if he is president. In his speech, Mr. Romney seemed less hostile, saying ''negotiations must secure full and unhindered access for inspections.'' He said Iran must halt all uranium enrichment but did not say how he would enforce a demand often made by the United Nations Security Council.
No one can predict if Mr. Obama's approach will yield a deal. He has had more success at rallying international support behind tougher sanctions -- including financial controls and an oil embargo -- than his predecessor ever had. He has also helped Israel and Persian Gulf states boost their defenses and made clear that the option of using force is on the table. He has been much more willing to pursue engagement than Mr. Romney, who on Tuesday pledged to ''use every means necessary to protect ourselves and the region and to prevent the worst from happening while there is still time.''
After suggesting for months that he might keep American forces in Afghanistan indefinitely, Mr. Romney said he would transition security to Afghan troops by the end of 2014, which Mr. Obama and NATO have already promised to do. He said he would rely on the advice of military commanders, as if Mr. Obama has not been doing just that. Given all the American lives and treasure expended over the past 12 years, it was a serious failure that he did not say more, including whether he would leave residual forces behind or how he would handle Afghanistan more broadly.
Mr. Romney, who plans to visit Israel this week as well as Britain and Poland, is fighting hard for support from Jewish voters. He attacked Mr. Obama for ''shabby treatment'' of Israel. Relations between Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu are obviously tense. But the administration has backed Israel in almost every way, and Israeli leaders have publicly acknowledged that.
Mr. Romney took some potshots at Russia (but dropped his absurd reference to Russia as the No. 1 geopolitical foe) and China. He ignored Pakistan, Syria and the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. He tried to sound stern toward Egypt, where the Muslim Brotherhood now runs the government, and said tough things like ''I am not ashamed of American power.''
But, at this point, what he is offering voters on American security is neither impressive nor convincing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); VETERANS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); MILITARY WEAPONS (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (90%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (73%) INDIAN OCEAN (66%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAN (73%); GULF STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



926 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: Romney Blasts Security Leaks As a Betrayal

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.; Helene Cooper contributed reporting from Portland, Ore.

 BODY:
RENO, Nev. -- On the eve of a trip abroad intended to burnish his qualifications to be commander in chief, Mitt Romney accused Obama administration officials on Tuesday of betraying the country by leaking national security secrets for their own political gain and failing to stand up to adversaries like China, Russia and Iran.
Mr. Romney's address, at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention here, was the most expansive foreign policy speech of his candidacy and opened a new and aggressive attack on President Obama on national security.
The Republican challenger has struggled to gain traction on foreign policy issues against Mr. Obama, who has enjoyed public support for the raid that killed Osama bin Laden and good marks in polls for his handling of American diplomacy. 
''This conduct is contemptible,'' Mr. Romney said of leaks for which he blames the administration. ''It betrays our national interest. It compromises our men and women in the field. And it demands a full and prompt investigation by a special counsel, with explanation and consequence.''
The speech highlighted a broader theme that Republicans have been pressing: that Mr. Obama and his administration ''betrayed'' the trust of America's closest allies -- Mr. Romney used a form of that word three times in the speech -- forsaking nations like Poland, the Czech Republic and particularly Israel, whose leaders the president ''is fond of lecturing,'' Mr. Romney said.
''He has undermined their position, which was tough enough as it was,'' Mr. Romney said. ''And even at the United Nations, to the enthusiastic applause of Israel's enemies, he spoke as if our closest ally in the Middle East was the problem.''
While Mr. Romney's speech was notable for the intensity of his attacks against Mr. Obama, it was also notable for a lack of new policy specifics. That seemed to underscore how much his campaign has struggled to find sharp contrasts with the White House on foreign policy, outside of a few clear differences, like Mr. Romney's call to reject a new strategic missile treaty with Russia and his opposition to engaging the Taliban in peace talks in Afghanistan. Some experts also say that Mr. Obama has been a strong supporter of Israel and that Mr. Romney has offered little tangible policy to illustrate how he would significantly improve on that.
The focus on Israel comes as Mr. Romney begins an overseas trip on Wednesday that is to take him to Britain, Poland and Israel. His meetings with Israeli leaders are expected to provide a sounding board for his concerns about the Iranian nuclear threat and what he considers the Obama administration's lack of resolve in confronting it.
Mr. Romney's provocative choice of words added to Republican efforts to define Mr. Obama as out of step with basic American goals and values at home and abroad. High-profile Republicans have been attacking Mr. Obama as hostile to free enterprise and intent on a greater government role in the economy. In his speech Tuesday, Mr. Romney cast himself as an ''unapologetic believer in the greatness'' of the United States while characterizing Mr. Obama as a leader who has ''given trust where it is not earned, insult where it is not deserved, and apology where it is not due.''
His critique of Mr. Obama's record in the Middle East came against the backdrop of especially intense criticism of the administration from the right. Neoconservatives have assailed the White House for not taking a harder line against Iran. Evangelical Christians are demanding more robust American support for Israel. And a group of Congressional Republicans including Representative Michele Bachmann of Minnesota has claimed without any evidence that a top State Department aide has ties to the Muslim Brotherhood, an assertion that other Republicans, including Senator John McCain of Arizona, have excoriated as ludicrously false.
Criticizing Mr. Obama for not doing more to support Iranian democracy demonstrations, Mr. Romney said dissidents in Tehran ''should hear the unequivocal voice of an American president affirming their right to be free.'' The people of Israel, Mr. Romney said, ''deserve better than what they have received from the leader of the free world.'' (Some Israeli leaders do not share this view; Ehud Barak, the defense minister and former prime minister, said last year that Mr. Obama had been an ''extremely strong supporter of Israel in regard to its security.'' They also have praised Mr. Obama for opposing the Palestinian Authority's bid for statehood at the United Nations.)
The Obama camp continued to pound Mr. Romney's coming foreign trip, calling it short on substance and light on stops.
Jay Carney, the White House spokesman, declined to comment on Mr. Romney's criticism of an investigation into leaks but said Mr. Obama ''has made abundantly clear that he has no tolerance for leaks.'' And Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. assailed Mr. Romney's speech as ''empty rhetoric and bluster.'' Mr. Biden said, ''He reflexively criticizes the president's policies without offering any alternatives.''
In his speech, Mr. Romney for the first time demanded that Iran halt all nuclear enrichment activities, but he did not say what he would do as president if the Iranians failed to accede to his demand. Both Mr. Romney and Mr. Obama have said that military action is an option should the Iranians pursue construction of a nuclear device. The Romney campaign also said Tuesday that it would make $1.3 billion in military aid to Egypt conditional on that country's maintaining a peace agreement with Israel.
Republicans appear to be hoping the controversy over leaks will snowball into a major political issue before the election.
Two federal prosecutors appointed by Attorney General Eric H. Holder Jr. are investigating the disclosure of details of cyberattacks against Iran's nuclear program as well as leaks about the foiling of a plot by Al Qaeda in Yemen to bring down an airliner with an underwear bomb. Republicans have also objected to leaks about the direct role Mr. Obama plays in ordering assassinations through drone strikes.
In making such a stark accusation about White House complicity in leaks, Mr. Romney and his aides pointed to Senator Dianne Feinstein, a Democrat from California and chairwoman of the Senate Intelligence Committee, who on Monday was quoted as saying that ''some'' national security leaks had to be coming from the White House but that Mr. Obama was not behind them.
Immediately after Mr. Romney's speech here, Ms. Feinstein backed away from her comments and said she was ''disappointed'' in how Mr. Romney had characterized her statement. ''I stated that I did not believe the president leaked classified information,'' she said. ''I shouldn't have speculated beyond that, because the fact of the matter is I don't know the source of the leaks.''
During the speech, Mr. Romney vowed that while he was overseas he would keep with tradition and not criticize the incumbent's foreign policy -- though that did not stop him in Reno from attacking Mr. Obama before he stepped on the plane.
''I will tell you right here -- before I leave -- what I think of this administration's shabby treatment of one of our finest friends,'' Mr. Romney said, describing what he said was Mr. Obama's weak support for Israel.
And while Mr. Romney has taken criticism for refusing to commit explicitly to a drawdown of nearly all American troops from Afghanistan by 2014 -- the timeline backed by Mr. Obama and NATO leaders -- he reiterated his ''goal'' to have combat troops out that year but suggested the timing would still depend on feedback from military commanders about conditions on the ground.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mitt Romney on Tuesday at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention in Reno, Nev., where he said the Obama administration ''betrays our national interest.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MAX WHITTAKER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); TALIBAN (76%); PEACE PROCESS (70%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (60%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (54%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (89%) NEVADA, USA (93%) ISRAEL (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



927 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: In Bid for BP's Stake of Venture, a Former Spy Becomes the Focus

BYLINE: By ANDREW E. KRAMER; Stanley Reed contributed reporting from London.

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- Igor I. Sechin, chief executive of Rosneft and confidant of the Russian president, Vladimir V. Putin, is the most powerful oilman you've never heard of. And Mr. Sechin, a former military spy who is awkward in front of cameras, long preferred it that way.
But he might not be able to remain in the shadows for much longer. In recent months, Mr. Sechin has struck a series of bold deals with Western oil companies to develop Siberia and Russia's Arctic waters, and he is on the prowl for more.
The man nicknamed ''The Scariest Man on Earth'' because of his espionage background is now at economic conferences and visiting boardrooms in New York and Berlin as he seeks to build up Rosneft, the Russian state oil company.
On Tuesday, Rosneft announced that it had begun negotiations on what would be its biggest deal ever: to buy the British oil giant BP's share of its Russian joint venture. BP estimates that its stake in the venture, TNK-BP, is worth about $30 billion. 
The deal, if consummated, would help Mr. Putin and Mr. Sechin consolidate their control over Russia's valuable energy assets, the linchpin of the nation's economy, at a time when the Russian industry is facing stiff challenges to finding new sources of oil to replace aging fields. It would also cement Rosneft's position as the biggest publicly traded oil company in the world as Mr. Putin begins his third presidential term.
Rosneft already claims the largest proven oil reserves of a listed company, though other, nonpublic state companies such as Saudi Aramco have far more.
The company's production of 2.4 million barrels per day now surpasses BP's output of 2.3 million, including its portion from TNK-BP, and Exxon Mobil's level of 2.2 million. If Rosneft acquires BP's stake in TNK-BP, its daily output would rise to 3.3 million barrels per day -- more than the country of Iraq and well ahead of other public companies.
''Rosneft believes that an acquisition of BP's interest in TNK-BP would be in the best interest of both Rosneft's and BP's shareholders and would lead to further development of TNK-BP,'' Rosneft said in a statement. Rosneft said it approached BP only after BP had announced interest from another potential buyer in June.
For its part, BP said it ''welcomed today's announcement by Rosneft of its interest in commencing negotiations.''
BP is also negotiating a possible sale to its Russian partners, a group of Soviet-born billionaires that include Len Blavatnik, who lives in New York, and two Russian-based partners. But BP will be hard pressed to turn down the state company's bid, in no small part because of the presence of Mr. Sechin, who was deputy prime minister until May.
Mr. Sechin declined to be interviewed. But his recent actions seem to signal a desire on the part of the Kremlin to work with Western companies to more fully develop Russia's oil and gas resources while also ensuring that the government retains control over the assets.
For BP, the Russian joint venture has provided a gusher of cash, generating $19 billion over nearly a decade. But BP and its Russian partners have clashed repeatedly over whether and how to expand. And last year, the Russian partners, including the oligarch Mikhail Fridman, successfully blocked a separate deal that BP had struck with Rosneft to explore Russia's Arctic waters.
That maneuver embarrassed Mr. Putin, who had publicly championed the BP-Rosneft alliance.
BP, oil analysts say, wants to sell its TNK-BP stake in part as a means to divorce from its partners and make a new alliance with Mr. Sechin, who is said to be an opponent of Mr. Fridman.
Any sale of BP's stake in TNK-BP is at least three months away, the period that BP must, under its shareholder agreement, negotiate on the buyout offer from its current partners. Further muddying any possible deal are allegations of fraud from a former TNK-BP employee against the company's management, which emerged Tuesday in a London court.
The former director of logistics accused one of the Russian shareholders, German Khan, who is also a manager, of funneling hundreds of millions of dollars in bribes to Russian officials in the guise of subcontracts. TNK-BP lawyers denied the allegation as wholly unsubstantiated, Bloomberg News reported.
Renaissance Capital, a Russian investment bank, suggested in a research report last week that the oil sector would be partly nationalized in Mr. Putin's third term, with state control rising to more than 50 percent from 33 percent today.
The appointment of Mr. Sechin, a longtime aide to Mr. Putin, to the chief executive position at Rosneft telegraphed the government's intentions, the report suggested.
Thane Gustafson, senior director of research for Eurasia energy at IHS, said that an acquisition of TNK-BP could help Rosneft gain valuable expertise in techniques to extract oil from shale fields, which have driven a boom in American oil and gas production but have been barely tapped in Russia.
Mr. Sechin, with one foot in the world of intelligence services and the other in business, is positioned like no other official in Russia to orchestrate a major overhaul of the oil industry -- with Rosneft, as has so often been the case, the principal beneficiary. Mikhail B. Khodorkovsky, in an interview in 2005, blamed Mr. Sechin for his arrest and the dismantlement of his company, Yukos, and its absorption into Rosneft.
''There is no question that Sechin has proven himself loyal and competent,'' Mr. Gustafson said.
Kremlinologists say Mr. Sechin leads a faction of former military and security service veterans known as the ''siloviki,'' or men of power, who are skeptical of close partnership with the United States. He has, though, negotiated deals with Western companies, including Exxon Mobil, to explore for oil in the Russian sector of the Arctic Ocean.
Mr. Putin hired Mr. Sechin as an aide in his office in the St. Petersburg city administration in 1993, when Mr. Putin was a deputy mayor. The two former spies have worked together since, through a succession of jobs including at the F.S.B., the successor agency to the K.G.B., where Mr. Putin was director in the late 1990s.
Over the years, Mr. Sechin has handled both delicate and personal matters for his boss. When Mr. Putin's wife, Lyudmila, was in a car accident in 1994 and had to be taken to the hospital, she told a journalist later, she called Mr. Sechin to take care of the Putins' daughter Katya because Mr. Putin was busy with work.
Mr. Sechin is a contentious figure for foreign investors, though he is said to be far more gregarious and easygoing in private than at public functions.
William F. Browder, the chief executive of Hermitage Capital and formerly the largest portfolio investor in the Russian stock market, was expelled from Russia in 2005 after advocating for greater transparency at state-controlled energy companies such as Gazprom and Surgutneftegaz.
Mr. Browder blamed Mr. Sechin for arranging this expulsion by designating him a national security threat, ineligible for a visa.
The purchase of the BP stake in TNK-BP would catapult Mr. Sechin, who served in the Angolan civil war in the Soviet military intelligence service, or the G.R.U., into the ranks of the most important figures in the world of oil, with a thumb on the scale of prices.
Generally, Western oil companies have been eager to strike deals with him despite the unpredictable nature of dealings with the Russian government. One senior Western oil company executive, who requested anonymity to preserve business relationships with the Russians, recalled a meeting where Mr. Sechin said flatly that foreigners investing in Russian oil shouldn't expect a game of cricket.
''You have to remember, this is Russia,'' he recalled Mr. Sechin telling him. ''There are different rules.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Igor I. Sechin is chief executive of Rosneft, the Russian state oil company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREY RUDAKOV/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B1)
 An oil drilling platform operated by Rosneft in Siberia, an area the company wants to develop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OAO ROSNEFT, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); ESPIONAGE (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (67%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (66%)

COMPANY: OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (90%); BP PLC (85%); EXXON MOBIL CORP (55%); TNK-BP LTD (55%); SAUDI ARAMCO (53%)

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (90%); ROSN (LSE) (90%); BP (NYSE) (85%); BP (LSE) (85%); XOM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (85%); NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (85%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); LEONARD BLAVATNIK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); EARTH (57%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); ARCTIC (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



928 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 726 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
CRACKDOWN IN SEOUL
ON ABUSE OF THE POLICE
Intoxicated people in Seoul routinely verbally and physically assault police officers with little penalty, a disrespect dating from when the police served dictators and Japanese overlords. Now the Seoul Metropolitan Police Agency has decided that enough is enough. Page A4
IMPASSE OVER ASIA SEA 
The disputes between China and four of its Southeast Asian neighbors over claims in the South China Sea have become so intense that the prospect of open conflict is becoming more likely, an authoritative new report says. Page A8
RUSSIAN SPACECRAFT FAILS
A Russian cargo spaceship experimenting with a new type of autopilot failed to dock with the International Space Station, in the latest glitch for the Russian space program. Russian space officials said the malfunction should not be considered a serious setback. Page A9
ADDING TO OLYMPIC SECURITY
Days before the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games, the British government has called up an extra 1,200 troops to help safeguard the event amid intensifying concern over security. Page A9
JOBLESS IN SOUTH AFRICA
Facing sluggish economic growth and a yawning gap between the nation's richest and poorest citizens, South Africa is struggling to provide jobs for hundreds of thousands of workers, the World Bank said. Page A9
EGYPTIAN PREMIER IS NAMED
President Mohamed Morsi of Egypt named a prime minister, plucking from relative obscurity the irrigation minister from the country's interim government, according to the official Middle East News Agency. Page A10
National
DEVELOPER ON A MISSION
TO REVIVE VIRGINIA TOWN
Ed Walker, a lawyer from a prominent family in Roanoke Va., has emerged as a developer with an unusual civic conscience, instilling new life to his hometown. In less than a decade, he has bought more than a dozen disused historic buildings, renovated them and enticed people to move in. Page A11
OBAMA LOSES FUND-RAISERS
Some of President Obama's big fund-raisers are now ambassadors, and as federal employees they are barred from political activities. It is one of the few handicaps of incumbency, and in a year when Mitt Romney could raise more money than the president, it could be a significant disadvantage. Page A14
ADS' WEST WING BACKDROP
Two campaign spots for President Obama released in the last two days were filmed in the West Wing, in the office of Jack Lew, his chief of staff, an unusual -- but not unprecedented -- use of White House space for campaign purposes. Page A15
New York
SPEAKERS ARE DIVIDED
AT SODA BAN HEARINGS
Speakers before the Board of Health split along two lines, with one group saying Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed soda ban would fight obesity, and another saying it would strip choices from consumers. Page A19
Obituaries
SHERMAN HEMSLEY, 74
Mr. Hemsley was the bantamweight comic actor who portrayed the scrappy, nouveau riche George Jefferson on the hit 1970's sitcom ''The Jeffersons.'' Page A20
Business
CONGRESS OPENS INQUIRY
OF CONSUMER DATA BROKERS
In a move that could lay bare the inner workings of the consumer data industry, eight members of Congress have opened a sweeping investigation into data brokers -- companies that collect and sell billions of details annually about consumers' activities for marketing and other purposes. Page B1
AT&T POSTS STRONG PROFIT
AT&T posted a healthy profit in the second quarter and said it was encouraging that most of its customers had remained loyal despite the rising costs of its wireless data plans and other policy revisions. Page B2
A LIFT FOR SQUARE
Square, the mobile payments start-up best known for its pint-size credit card reader, is close to raising roughly $200 million, which would give the company an implied valuation of $3.25 billion, people briefed on the matter said. Page B5
Sports
BRAND POLICE ON THE PROWL
FOR AMBUSH MARKETERS
Every two years, the International Olympic Committee and the host city battle companies that want to bask in the Games' prestige and global exposure but have not paid the small fortune required to be an official sponsor. Page B11
Arts
IN PREVIOUS OLYMPICS,
TRIALS BEHIND THE SCENES
''Going for Gold'' on BBC America television tells the story of two participants in the double scull event in the 1948 Olympics, and PBS's ''Strong!'' follows Cheryl Haworth, an American weight lifter, preparing for 2008. Page C5
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); FUNDRAISING (87%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (87%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (82%); OLYMPICS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); MAYORS (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (69%); SPACE STATIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (65%); BUILDING RENOVATION (64%); OBESITY (60%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (77%); MOHAMMED MORSI (74%); BARACK OBAMA (69%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); ROANOKE, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (92%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (91%); PACIFIC OCEAN (90%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); ASIA (94%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



929 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: Fragile Economy Said To Push Fed To Weigh Action

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A growing number of Federal Reserve officials have concluded that the central bank needs to expand its stimulus campaign unless the nation's economy soon shows signs of improvement, including job growth.
The question is expected to dominate the agenda when the Fed's policy-making committee meets next week, with some members pushing for immediate action while others seek to delay a decision at least until the committee's next meeting in September, so they can see a few more weeks' worth of economic data.
The Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, told Congress last week that the options under consideration included a new round of asset purchases, or ''quantitative easing,'' often described as QE3. As part of any such program, officials increasingly favor expanding the Fed's holdings of mortgage-backed securities for the first time since 2010. 
Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials are convinced that such a step would further drive down long-term interest rates and improve the pace of economic growth, but they are concerned that the benefits would be modest and the costs uncertain.
The Fed also could take the smaller step of extending its forecast that short-term interest rates would remain near zero beyond late 2014, but many economists regard such a step as unlikely to provide a significant jolt to growth.
Any significant action by the Fed will reverberate in a presidential election that may be decided by the health of the economy. Republicans have urged Mr. Bernanke to refrain from taking additional steps, arguing that the costs were likely to exceed the benefits, while Democrats have pressed for a new round of stimulus.
Officials increasingly say that the economy has lost momentum after stronger growth earlier in the year. The unemployment rate fell by a full percentage point, to 8.1 percent, between September and April, but it has since made no further progress. Fed officials predicted in June that if they did not take further action, the rate would remain at or above 8 percent for the rest of the year. Fed officials are also concerned about the continuing crisis in Europe and the impact of substantial tax increases and spending cuts at the end of this year.
Mr. Bernanke has said repeatedly that the Fed would act if it concluded that the economy would not grow fast enough to reduce the rate of unemployment.
''We are very committed to ensuring, or at least doing all we can to ensure, that we continue to make progress on unemployment,'' he told Congress last week.
For the Fed, there is a caveat that holds the key to understanding its pending decision. Current economic conditions would most likely warrant a cut in the Fed's benchmark interest rate. But of course the Fed cannot cut that rate, which has hovered near zero since late 2008. Instead it must decide whether to try improving the economy by other means.
There is considerable evidence that the Fed's purchases of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities have reduced interest rates and encouraged investors to buy riskier assets like equities. Stock markets rally whenever the central bank hints at another round of purchases. The Fed has made two large rounds of asset purchases, first in 2008 and again in 2010. But the broader benefits of lower rates have been tamped down because many consumers and businesses are unable to qualify for loans.
Several Fed officials have expressed public support for buying mortgage-backed securities because studies show that such purchases have a larger effect on mortgage rates, allowing the Fed to take aim at the troubled housing market.
''If further action is called for, the most effective tool would be additional purchases of longer-maturity securities, including agency mortgage-backed securities,'' John C. Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, said in a speech in mid-July.
The uncertain costs of such purchases have created a higher bar for action. Some officials worry that the Fed will disrupt financial markets by acquiring too much of the outstanding volume of Treasuries or mortgage-backed securities.
''It would be helpful to have a better understanding of how large the Federal Reserve's participation would have to be to cause a meaningful deterioration in securities market functioning, and of the potential costs of such deterioration for the economy as a whole,'' Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, said in a recent speech.
Other officials, however, play down this concern. The point of the purchases, in part, is to push investors into riskier assets. Mr. Bernanke told Congress last week that he recognized a theoretical limit on the amount of Treasuries that the Fed could own, but that he did not see it as an immediate constraint.
Another concern raised by some officials, and minimized by Mr. Bernanke, is that a larger portfolio could impede the Fed's ability to respond to rising inflation.
The Fed's purchases also have squeezed the premiums, in the form of higher interest rates, that investors normally demand to hold longer-term debt. As the distortion increases, so does the potential for disruption if premiums snap back toward historical norms.
And central bankers, cautious by nature and profession, also harbor wariness for the unforeseen risks of unprecedented actions.
Nonetheless, internal discussions have swung in the direction of additional action.
As recently as April, a majority of the officials on the Fed's policy-making committee -- there were then 17 members; there are now 19 -- indicated that they no longer expected to hold interest rates near zero through 2014, as they had stated.
But the outlook deteriorated so quickly that at its next meeting in June, the Fed announced a holding action, extending to the end of this year an effort to modestly reduce borrowing costs by adjusting but not expanding its investment portfolio.
Fed officials have now made clear that they may make a move before that program ends in December. But they may wait past the meeting scheduled for next Tuesday and Wednesday. While the government will release its estimate of second-quarter growth on Friday, postponing a decision until the Fed next meets in September would allow officials to consider two more months' worth of employment data.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chairman, testified last week before a House financial services panel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHIP SOMODEVILLA/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); TAX LAW (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



930 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1178 words

HEADLINE: Mogul's Latest Foray Courts Jews for the G.O.P.

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A Republican group backed by the casino magnate Sheldon Adelson is starting a new effort in battleground states to win over Jewish voters who could be persuaded to turn away from President Obama and support Mitt Romney.
The group, the Republican Jewish Coalition, plans to begin a multimillion-dollar advertising campaign in the coming weeks called ''My Buyer's Remorse,'' targeting voters in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, aides said. The campaign uses testimonials from people who say they regret supporting Mr. Obama because of his economic policies and his posture toward Israel, in hopes of cutting into the wide advantage Democrats have held over Republicans among Jewish voters.
It is the latest foray into the election by Mr. Adelson, a staunch supporter of Israel who has vowed to spend as much as $100 million to defeat Mr. Obama. It marks an escalation of the partisan politics over Middle East policy and represents an emerging Republican strategy of highlighting voters who supported Mr. Obama four years ago but are now expressing disappointment, while signaling to others that they are not alone in shifting their allegiances.
Mr. Adelson and other members of the group's board have pledged at least $6.5 million to build a comprehensive list of Jewish voters and to wage a word-of-mouth campaign, amplified through social media and television advertising. 
The intensified pursuit of Jewish voters is coming into sharper view as Mr. Romney leaves on a trip that will take him to Israel this weekend. It is a closely watched visit, especially given the often-tense relations between Mr. Obama and Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, who has known Mr. Romney for three decades.
Mr. Adelson has emerged as potentially the largest single donor in American politics this year. After initially backing Newt Gingrich in the Republican primary race, Mr. Adelson eased his skepticism of Mr. Romney, and his support has steadily grown.
In May, Mr. Adelson and Mr. Romney held a private meeting in Las Vegas, and aides said the two men have communicated occasionally since then. In June, Mr. Adelson and his wife each gave $5 million to a pro-Romney ''super PAC.'' His support for Israel aligns him with other influential Republican constituencies, including evangelical Christians, who see Mr. Obama as failing to support Israel sufficiently.
The fight for the Jewish vote is more of a hunt-and-peck search for disgruntled voters, considering that Mr. Obama won more than 70 percent of votes among Jews in 2008, according to exit polls. But with an estimated 600,000 Jewish voters in Florida, a critical swing state, Democratic leaders said they were not taking the constituency for granted, and they acknowledged a need to increase enthusiasm among Jews before November.
''They figure if they shave off a few points here and a few points there in the Jewish population through lying and distortions, they can win,'' said Representative Debbie Wasserman Schultz of Florida, chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee. ''But they can't dress themselves up to be something appealing to the Jewish community when they aren't.''
The Republican Jewish Coalition, the party's leading outreach group for Jewish voters, has spent months developing a campaign to find like-minded voters in Florida, Ohio and Pennsylvania, the three swing states with the largest Jewish populations. It is the most extensive electoral effort undertaken by the group.
''We don't need to get a majority of the vote to win,'' said Matt Brooks, executive director of the Republican Jewish Coalition. ''When we take votes away from Democrats, we are taking votes from a key part of their constituency.''
A Gallup poll of voters from June 1 to July 22 showed that Mr. Obama held a lead over Mr. Romney among Jewish voters of 67 percent to 25 percent. They said they strongly supported liberal issues that traditionally align with Democrats, including abortion rights, same-sex marriage and an overhaul of immigration laws.
But if Mr. Romney won 25 percent of the Jewish vote, it would be the best showing by a Republican candidate in more than two decades, which could be especially important in swing states, where the margin of victory could be narrow. Four years ago, Senator John McCain won about 21 percent of the Jewish vote.
The advertising campaign features a testimonial from Michael Goldstein, 48, a community college administrator from New Jersey, who said he enthusiastically supported Mr. Obama's candidacy but became disillusioned by his administration. A lifelong Democrat, he said he was planning to support Mr. Romney by casting his first vote for a Republican in a presidential race.
''I was enamored with Obama,'' Mr. Goldstein said in an interview. ''I thought he was sharp, intelligent and brought a new sense of wonder to politics. The fact that we were helping elect the first African-American president of the United States made me very proud, but I don't believe anything he says anymore. I go more by his actions than by what he says.''
Mr. Goldstein said he gradually became disenchanted with Mr. Obama when his promises to change Washington did not come to pass. He said he was particularly incensed by the administration's stance toward Israel, particularly the president's view that the 1967 borders should be a starting point for negotiations for a two-state peace solution. He said he also believed that Mr. Obama showed disrespect to Mr. Netanyahu.
It remains an open question how many voters share the views of Mr. Goldstein, who conceded that some of his frustrations at Mr. Obama were also a result of what he saw as the president's failure to uphold liberal principles on gun control and some social issues. But he said that his discontent was strong enough that he would cast a vote for Mr. Romney and that he intended to campaign aggressively in Pennsylvania.
''It doesn't take a lot of buyer's remorse to potentially shift the outcome,'' said Ari Fleischer, a member of the Republican Jewish Coalition's board and a former press secretary to President George W. Bush.
While the Obama campaign and the Democratic Party have increased their outreach, leaders of several Jewish organizations dismissed the possibility that the Republicans could make significant inroads in the November election.
''There is a very large chunk of the Jewish community that is very Democratic that can't be eaten into,'' said Mik Moore, founder of the Jewish Council for Education and Research. ''There is a fight for maybe 10-15 percent, but nobody is underestimating the impact that the massive independent spending can have on the campaign.''
Jeremy Ben-Ami, the president of J Street, a Jewish lobbying group in Washington that favors Democratic candidates, said the effort by Mr. Adelson and the Republican Jewish Coalition would fall short.
''Every single number indicates there is simply no such thing as a Jewish problem for the president,'' Mr. Ben-Ami said. ''The people who vote only on Israel didn't vote for Obama last time and know who they are voting for already.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ad by the Republican Jewish Coalition, which is backed by the billionaire Sheldon Adelson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REPUBLICAN JEWISH COALITION) (A1)
 Sheldon Adelson has vowed to spend as much as $100 million to defeat the president. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEROME FAVRE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (93%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); RELIGION (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (62%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

PERSON: SHELDON G ADELSON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (93%); OHIO, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%) ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



931 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 461 words

HEADLINE: Over 10,000 Licenses Issued In First Year of Gay Marriage

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
More than 10,000 gay and lesbian couples were issued marriage licenses in New York State in the year since same-sex marriage was legalized.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg announced on Tuesday that at least 7,184 same-sex couples had been issued licenses in New York City since July 24, 2011, when the state's Marriage Equality Act took effect. In the rest of the state, as of July 16, at least 3,424 same-sex couples had received licenses, according to the State Health Department. 
The actual numbers, though, are probably higher, since people are not required to report their sex on marriage license applications.
Mr. Bloomberg noted the anniversary of the Marriage Equality Act at a news conference outside the city clerk's office in Lower Manhattan, where he was joined by several gay lawmakers: the City Council speaker, Christine C. Quinn, whose wedding in May was attended by the mayor and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo; Assemblyman Daniel J. O'Donnell of Manhattan, who married in New York City in January; and City Councilman Jimmy Van Bramer of Queens, who plans to marry on Saturday.
The mayor said the city had become a destination for same-sex weddings, benefiting the economy. Of the same-sex couples who were issued marriage licenses here, he said, 35 percent lived outside the Middle Atlantic States and 7 percent lived outside the United States.
''New York has always been a great place to get married,'' he said. ''Now that we've achieved marriage equality, more and more couples from around the country and around the world are coming here to get hitched.''
Even as he celebrated a year of same-sex marriages in New York, Mr. Bloomberg said there was still work to be done in achieving equality, citing in particular the federal Defense of Marriage Act, which means that same-sex marriages are not recognized by the federal government.
He said, ''Speaker Christine Quinn believes that government should bestow upon her marriage license all the rights and privileges that come with any other marriage license, and I could not agree more.''
Mr. Bloomberg called Ms. Quinn, a likely candidate to succeed him, ''one of the strongest leaders'' in the push for same-sex marriage.
She returned the compliment, calling Mr. Bloomberg ''by far the best mayor the L.G.B.T. community has ever had in the city's history.''
During the news conference, Rich Lamb, a reporter for WCBS radio, started to ask a question about same-sex divorce. The mayor cut him off, saying it was ''much too early to tell'' what the rate of divorce would be among same-sex couples.
When Mr. Lamb persisted, Ms. Quinn took the microphone.
''Let's just reflect, Rich, you are the Debbie Downer of this news conference,'' she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (95%); MARRIAGE (94%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MARRIAGE LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LICENSES & PERMITS (90%); MAYORS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); COHABITATION (89%); CITIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); HISTORY (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (89%); ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



932 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 305 words

HEADLINE: City Acquires Last Segment Of High Line From Railroad

BYLINE: By LISA W. FODERARO

 BODY:
New York City has acquired the third and final section of the High Line, the old elevated railroad structure on the West Side of Manhattan, from CSX Transportation, clearing the way for completion of the park. 
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and High Line officials announced on Tuesday that CSX had donated the remaining section, just as it had previously donated the segments south of West 30th Street. The new half-mile segment, which hugs the West Side railyards, runs west from 30th Street and 10th Avenue to 12th Avenue and then continues north to 34th Street.
Design of the new portion of the High Line is already under way. Construction is expected to begin later this year.
''In the three short years since the first section opened as a park, the High Line has become a treasured neighborhood oasis, a significant generator of economic activity for the entire city and a celebrated icon for planners, designers and leaders around the world,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
The new section of the park will offer visitors ''sweeping views of New York City's skyline and the Hudson River,'' said Adrian Benepe, the commissioner of the parks department.
The new portion borders the 26-acre Hudson Yards mixed-use neighborhood that is now being developed by Related Companies and Oxford Properties Group. When completed, that project will include more than 12 million square feet of new office, residential, retail and cultural space. Last fall, the city announced that Coach Inc. would buy more than 600,000 square feet in the first tower on the Hudson Yards site, at 30th Street and 10th Avenue, the current terminus of the High Line park.
The High Line is owned by the city but maintained and operated by Friends of the High Line, the nonprofit group that had rallied to save it from demolition after it fell into disuse as a freight rail line.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (77%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (74%); RAIL FREIGHT (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%)

COMPANY: COACH INC (66%); CSX TRANSPORTATION INC (58%); OXFORD PROPERTIES GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: COH (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS315990 APPAREL ACCESSORIES & OTHER APPAREL MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3151 LEATHER GLOVES & MITTENS (66%); SIC2389 APPAREL & ACCESSORIES, NEC (66%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (58%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (58%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



933 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 849 words

HEADLINE: Congress To Examine Data Sellers

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
In a move that could lay bare the inner workings of the consumer data industry, eight members of Congress have opened a sweeping investigation into data brokers -- companies that collect, collate, analyze and sell billions of details annually about consumers' offline, online and mobile activities for marketing and other purposes.
Representative Edward J. Markey, Democrat of Massachusetts, and Representative Joe L. Barton, Republican of Texas, co-chairmen of the Bipartisan Congressional Privacy Caucus, along with six other lawmakers, sent letters of inquiry on Tuesday afternoon to nine leading industry players. In the letters, the legislators requested extensive information about how the companies amass, refine, sell and share consumer data. 
Data brokers often collect details about people's financial, retail and recreational activities to help clients like airlines, automakers, banks, credit card issuers and retailers retain their best customers and woo new ones.
The letter's recipients included marketing services firms like Acxiom and Epsilon; consumer reporting agencies like Experian and Equifax, which have separate credit reporting and consumer analytics divisions; Fair Isaac, now known as FICO, the credit scoring services company; and Intelius, a company that offers reverse phone look-up and background check services. The letter gave the companies three weeks to respond.
The Congressional inquiry heightens the scrutiny of a largely unregulated industry whose companies sell their services to third parties, rarely interacting directly with consumers.
In 2010, the Federal Trade Commission began its own investigation into the practices of more than a dozen data compilers. One of those companies, Spokeo, recently agreed to settle charges with the government that it had violated federal law by selling consumers' personal data for employment screening. Enforcement actions against several other data brokers are pending, the agency said.
Now Mr. Markey says he wants the Congressional investigation to further expose data broker practices, saying some had the potential to affect people's access to education, health care, employment or economic opportunities.
But Mr. Markey's ultimate goal is to determine whether legislators should enact a law regulating the industry. Unlike consumer reporting agencies, which are required by federal law to show people their own credit reports and allow them to correct errors, information brokers are not currently required to show consumers information collected about them for marketing purposes.
''We have gone from an era of data keepers to this new era where data reapers are able to create very complex profiles of every American,'' Mr. Markey said in a telephone interview.
He said he was particularly troubled by data broker programs that categorize individual consumers as desirable or undesirable sales prospects, often without their knowledge and consent, a practice that he said raised privacy concerns. ''I'm hoping to ratchet up the transparency so we can foster a system of oversight and consumer control over their data.''
The privacy caucus's letter was prompted by an article last month in The New York Times about Acxiom, based in Little Rock, Ark. Mr. Markey's office gave The Times a copy of the letter.
Jennifer Barrett Glasgow, the chief privacy officer of Acxiom, said company executives had testified before Congress numerous times to inform legislators about the steps they take to protect consumers. ''We are happy to provide whatever information we can to further inform interested parties,'' she said.
Other industry representatives did not immediately respond to requests for comment.
The privacy caucus does not have subpoena power. But Mr. Markey said other industries, like cellphone carriers, had complied with his requests in the past. He said he expected similar cooperation from data brokers.
The letter asked each company to provide a list of all of its sources of data; a list of the specific kinds of consumer information, including ethnic, race or religious data, it collects; descriptions of the data collection methods used, like tracking of social network or mobile phone activity; explanations about each product and service the company has marketed to third parties since January 2009, and the type of data used in such products and services; details about whether any of the products or services are federally regulated; explanations about the security measures used to protect consumer data; as well as descriptions of the opt-out, data access, correction and deletion options the company offers consumers.
The direct marketing industry already offers consumers choices about managing marketing pitches sent through the mail. Digital marketers have a program for people who wish to opt out of receiving online ads tailored to their behavior.
But Mr. Markey said consumers also needed greater access to data collected about them so they could make more informed choices.
''You have to make sure that the values of the physical world accompany the transition to the virtual, digital world,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (90%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT REGULATION (89%); RETAILERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (77%); SALES & SELLING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); CREDIT CARDS (68%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (67%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (54%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (54%); AUTOMAKERS (54%)

COMPANY: EQUIFAX INC (56%); FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (56%); INTELIUS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: EFX (NYSE) (56%); FICO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (56%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (56%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (55%)

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (79%); BETSY MARKEY (79%); JOE BARTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



934 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Bad Banks, Big Bailouts And Bruises

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
BAILOUT
An Inside Account of How Washington Abandoned Main Street While Rescuing Wall Street
By Neil Barofsky
270 pages. Free Press. $26.
From the opening of this latest book on the government's (mis)handling of the 2008-9 financial crisis, Neil Barofsky establishes his populist narrative from his two-plus years as the ''TARP cop'' overseeing the $700 billion big-bank bailout officially known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program.
Mr. Barofsky, a former Manhattan prosecutor, is the idealistic alien sent in an emergency to Planet Washington, where he does battle with the self-important, self-serving powers entrenched there or simply taking a spin through its revolving door to Wall Street. He is SIGTARP (in Washington-speak, the Special Inspector General for TARP). But ultimately he is outmatched, and evil triumphs over good. 
In the preface to ''Bailout: An Inside Account of How Washington Abandoned Main Street While Rescuing Wall Street,'' it is April 2010, and after more than a year on the job, Mr. Barofsky is meeting for a clear-the-air drink with one of his nemeses, Herbert Allison, the former head of the financial giants Merrill Lynch, TIAA-CREF and Fannie Mae, who came out of retirement to run the bank-rescue program for the Treasury Department. Mr. Barofsky, wearing an unseasonal wool suit at odds with a ''Washington-appropriate wardrobe,'' is poised to let the hostess seat them at a front table of her choosing, but Mr. Allison insists on a private table in the rear. Then he gets down to business.
''Have you thought at all about what you'll be doing next?'' Mr. Allison asks Mr. Barofsky, soon adding, ''Out there in the market, there are consequences for some of the things that you're saying and the way that you're saying them.''
''Allison was essentially threatening me with lifelong unemployment,'' Mr. Barofsky concludes, and alternatively suggesting a plum government appointment some day if Mr. Barofsky would simply ''change your tone.''
When Mr. Barofsky tells his deputy of the exchange, the deputy says, ''It was the gold or the lead,'' resorting to the lingo of their joint experience prosecuting Latin American drug kingpins in New York: Cooperate and share the riches, or don't and get plugged. (With such frequent asides between the two buddies, Mr. Barofsky seeks to lighten what is by definition his otherwise numbingly complicated subject.)
Yet Mr. Barofsky goes on to say that he did not really think that Mr. Allison was threatening him; in fact, Mr. Allison ''was, in a very Washington way, sincerely trying to be helpful.'' This introductory episode not only sets the book's tone, but it also embodies the contradictions and inconsistencies throughout Mr. Barofsky's account.
He writes early on that ''I had no idea that the U.S. government had been captured by the banks,'' and at another point describes his strategy to use the press to get the attention of Congress, and by extension an obstreperous Treasury: ''Our message was simple: Treasury's desperate attempt to bail out Wall Street was setting the country up for potentially catastrophic losses.'' Yet despite such repeated condemnations of the decision-making process in both the Bush and Obama administrations, Mr. Barofsky never really concedes that the predicted losses did not occur.
He refers throughout to the $700 billion bailout, never clarifying that less than $300 billion of that amount went out the door by the time TARP expired; that not a penny went to big banks during the Obama administration; and that those banks repaid taxpayers with interest.
As ugly and flawed as the rescue process was, and as galling as Wall Street's revived bravado and bonuses can be to most Americans, the fact remains that an economic collapse was averted, and that Main Street is recovering: slowly, but typically so for recessions brought on by credit crises. As Europe's crisis persists for a fourth year, commentators around the globe have suggested that the Continent should have followed America's example.
To the extent that Mr. Barofsky acknowledges that neither big losses nor big fraud cases occurred, he credits the anti-fraud measures he pressed Treasury to include in programs and contracts. Yet his book is a chronicle of complaints that Treasury undercut, blindsided and ignored him. Perhaps the biggest criticism of Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner suggested by Mr. Barofsky's account is that Mr. Geithner should have been a lot more conciliatory toward this zealous inspector general, if only to avoid becoming the biggest villain in Mr. Barofsky's morality tale.
Mr. Geithner does not fully enter the story until its midpoint. The headline grabber is a recounting of an October 2009 meeting at which Mr. Geithner erupts when Mr. Barofsky tells him that TARP's unpopularity and the public's perception of Treasury as subservient to big banks is because of Mr. Geithner's lack of transparency about the department's dealings.
'' 'Neil, I have been the most [expletive] transparent secretary of the Treasury in this country's entire [expletive] history!' he boomed, moving forward in his chair. 'No one has ever made the banks disclose the type of [expletive] that I made them disclose after the stress tests. No one!' ''
(While Mr. Barofsky pointedly describes the Wall Street background of every Washington player who has one, he never notes that Mr. Geithner does not fit the theme, having served in the public sector, starting at Treasury a quarter-century ago, despite lucrative offers during the Street's boom years.)
Mr. Barofsky's book adds little of substance to the mini-library on the worst financial crisis since the Depression, which includes ''In Fed We Trust,'' by David Wessel of The Wall Street Journal; ''Too Big to Fail,'' by Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times; and another insider account, ''On the Brink,'' by Henry M. Paulson Jr., Treasury secretary in the Bush administration.
Mr. Barofsky the ex-prosecutor talks of fighting fraud and ''Wall Street criminals'' and styles his office as a law enforcement agency, complete with guns and badges. Yet the reader should not expect Eliot Ness. Within a week of starting work in December 2008, Mr. Barofsky has fights that are mainly of the bureaucratic type as old as Washington. He grouses for page after page about being left out of the loop as arcane policies are developed, consigned to a basement office that literally stinks. What scofflaws he takes credit for helping to nab are far from Wall Street: an Alabama-based bank, a Tennessee man with a $10 million Ponzi scheme, a San Diego mortgage telemarketer.
Mr. Barofsky, now a senior fellow at New York University School of Law, does a good job of describing the complex financial products at the core of the crisis. And he does open windows into how Washington works, though not always those he intended.
For instance, like so many actors in the capital, Mr. Barofsky develops backdoor relationships with the offices of friendly Republican lawmakers like Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Representative Darrell Issa of California, leaking information back and forth to shape news coverage. Then he wonders why Treasury keeps him in the dark?
Mr. Barofsky justifiably spends time on Treasury's failure to get banks to stem home foreclosures. But he charges that Treasury helped give birth to the Tea Party ''by rolling out a hurried and poorly thought-out mortgage modification program,'' when what actually spawned that movement was conservatives' opposition to the very idea of bailing out troubled homeowners, which Mr. Barofsky so favors.
That his book is being released now, amid the presidential campaign, reflects perhaps the biggest contradiction of all: If Treasury has been making policies exclusively ''by Wall Street for Wall Street,'' as Mr. Barofsky says, why then has a once friendly Wall Street turned so hostile to President Obama's re-election?
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO(C1)
 Neil Barofsky, author of ''Bailout,'' testifying on Capitol Hill in 2010. A special inspector general, he was called the ''TARP cop.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI/GETTY IMAGES)(C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (79%); BANK FAILURES (79%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (70%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (67%); TEACHERS INSURANCE & ANNUITY ASSOCIATION - COLLEGE RETIREMENT EQUITIES FUND (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (67%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (67%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%)

PERSON: HERBERT M ALLISON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: Bailout: An Inside Account of How Washington Abandoned Main Street While Rescuing Wall Street (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



935 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 1173 words

HEADLINE: A Flood of Anger Follows Deadly Rains in Beijing

BYLINE: MARK MCDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: Government officials are sticking with their official death toll of 37 after rainstorms pounded Beijing over the weekend, but many in the capital are expecting the actual number of deaths to be much higher. 

 BODY:
HONG KONG - Government officials are sticking with their official death toll of 37 after rainstorms pounded Beijing over the weekend, but many in the capital are expecting the actual number of deaths to be much higher, perhaps in the hundreds. 
Online anger continued to rage Wednesday over the woeful sewer system in the capital and what many saw as a feeble government response. People were incensed, for example, that cars covered in debris or otherwise disabled by the floodwaters were reportedly being ticketed by the police.
Government censors moved quickly to remove some of the angriest and most pointed comments on the Twitter-like platform called Sina Weibo. 
"This catastrophe could surpass the 2003 SARS outbreak in its test of the Beijing leadership, especially as it is now playing out in real time on Sina Weibo, a service which has become digital sulfuric acid to the government's credibility," said Bill Bishop on his Sinocism blog. "The leadership appears to realize that attempts at covering up the death toll will only make things worse."
Sam Crane, a China scholar and a professor at Williams College in Massachusetts, said the effective collapse of the sewers could be an ominous portent for government and Communist Party leaders. 
"Central authorities are sensitive to such criticism, since infrastructural development is often held up as proof of the efficacy of Chinese style authoritarianism," he wrote on his blog, The Useless Tree. "They appear to be worried about a political backlash.
"And there is, of course, that knotty traditional notion of the Mandate of Heaven," Mr. Crane said. "Natural disasters were historically taken as signs that a Chinese emperor may have been losing the right to rule, as determined by a diffuse sense of destiny and fate in the classical Chinese notion of 'heaven.' " 
One prominent Chinese blogger, Li Chengpeng, a former soccer columnist widely known as Li Big Eyes, had an online essay, "Totem," erased by the censors. He wrote admiringly of valiant efforts by everyday Beijingers - who he said are normally indifferent to their fellow citizens' problems - in helping those who were stranded or made homeless by the floods, the worst to hit Beijing in more than 60 years. 
But he also assailed government officials for sloth and lack of resourcefulness, saying they missed the chance to take specific relief measures like renting blocks of cheap hotel rooms for temporarily stranded Beijingers.
"It never crossed their minds, just as it never crossed their minds that in addition to dressing up the city and making it pretty, they should've also built a functional drainage system," Mr. Li said in his essay, reprinted on the ChinaSmack blog. "They only know how to turn on the faucet of positive propaganda, not knowing that public opinion is the most important drainage system."
Mr. Crane compared the government response to the flooding to the aftermath of the Hurricane Katrina disaster in the United States.
"The failure to respond effectively and humanely to Hurricane Katrina did weaken the administration of George W. Bush," he said. "But this kind of backlash can be more pronounced in authoritarian systems, because to criticize the ruling party is to criticize the system itself."
Some analysts doubted that the official death toll would be substantially raised, even if hundreds have died. A large death count could point to governmental inefficiencies and dissembling, even possibly to sewer-construction shortcuts comparable to the shoddy building standards in schools that collapsed in the Sichuan Province earthquake in 2008.
It remains to be seen whether people will be comforted by official assurances Wednesday that the Three Gorges Dam, the world's largest, was safe and holding - despite cresting water levels. 
"Living in China has always meant having to learn to tolerate a certain amount of mendacity on the part of the government. This is nothing new," said Jeremy Goldkorn, the founder of the Web site Danwei. Mr. Goldkorn was by Tom Lasseter of McClatchy Newspapers. "But the Internet certainly does make public cynicism about the government an open topic of conversation, and many people believe this is a significant contributor to the crisis of trust in Chinese society."
China Digital Times cited a leaked directive from Beijing's Department of Propaganda that said "all media outlets, including central news organizations, must emphasize the power of human compassion over the elements."
Even with the government spin, the elements were bad enough: A police officer on rescue duty was electrocuted by a falling power line, roads collapsed, sewer pipes got blocked, 50,000 people had to be evacuated from flooded villages and 80,000 passengers were stranded overnight at the airport. 
"As Chinese experts point out, in terms of drainage technology, China is decades behind developed societies," said a commentary in Global Times, a newspaper affiliated with the Communist Party. 
"The disaster of Saturday was particularly unforgivable," the paper added, "given that Beijing's inadequate drainage system and emergency response mechanism were already exposed" in a storm last summer.
In Hong Kong, Typhoon Vicente caused city authorities to steadily hoist its typhoon warnings on Monday night - eventually reaching the highest level, No. 10, on Tuesday morning - and there were useful alerts as the storm approached the territory. There were some injuries in Hong Kong, a number of trees were blown over - and my kitchen flooded. But there were no deaths. 
The history of municipal drainage seems like an issue that one might reasonably ignore. But The Economist has an interesting take - some might even call it a gripping account - on the antique sewers in Beijing. An excerpt:
Beijing is perched precariously on the edge of the Gobi desert, and for centuries planners have been preoccupied with how to bring water into it, not divert it elsewhere. Guo Shoujing, a 13th-century scientist and hydrologist, is still revered for designing a network of lakes, weirs and artificial waterways. These not only watered the palaces of Kublai Khan and his descendants but also allowed barges from the southern parts of the empire to bring "tribute" to their imperial masters and grain to the people of the capital.
Drainage was left to open sewers, sluices and canals, none of which was particularly effective when rains came. Over the past 1,000 years, the city has suffered 140 serious floods. Inundations in 1626 and 1890 were especially calamitous. Both of those floods came towards the end of dynasties, when corruption, neglect and mismanagement sapped the government's ability to maintain public works.
The current drainage system dates from the 1950s and is based on a Soviet design, which relies on pipes rather than sewers to direct excess water. As 20th-century planners filled in many of Beijing's canals, moats and waterways, residents were forced to rely on this creaky relic of Sino-Soviet co-operation to keep their streets from flooding when it rained.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (90%); WEATHER (90%); INFRASTRUCTURE (89%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); POLITICS (87%); TYPHOONS (79%); FLOODS & FLOODING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); HURRICANE KATRINA (76%); CENSORSHIP (75%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (71%); WRITERS (64%); TROPICAL STORMS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (52%) Bishop, Bill; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); Computers and the Internet; Deaths (Fatalities); Floods; Hurricane Katrina; Hurricanes and Tropical Storms; Infrastructure (Public Works); Levees and Dams; SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome); Sewers and Sewage; Typhoons; Communist Party of China; Economist, The; Sina Weibo; Beijing (China); China; Hong Kong; Featured; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: Communist Party of China; Economist, The; Sina Weibo

PERSON: Bishop, Bill

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); HONG KONG (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%) Beijing (China); China; Hong Kong

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



936 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Who Cares About Fed Funds?

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: Those people calling for the Federal Reserve to stimulate economic growth overstate the impact of its monetary policy on the economy, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
7/25/12 | Updated to correct editing error on definition of federal funds rate.
 
New research confirms that the Federal Reserve's monetary policy has little effect on a number of financial markets, let alone the wider economy. Politicians, and a few economists, have been imploring the Federal Reserve to help the economy grow before November. But the effects of monetary policy on the wider economy are small.
The Federal Reserve and especially its regional bank in New York are actively engaged in buying and selling Treasury securities, and the Fed lends money to banks. These transactions influence the rate charged on overnight loans among banks, which is known as the federal funds rate.
Because interest rates are important to homeowners and businesses, it is tempting to conclude that the Federal Reserve affects the economy by affecting interest rates. But the federal funds rate is only one of many interest rates in the economy, and it is those other interest rates that households and nonbank businesses pay as borrowers and receive as lenders.
Yet a few economists have concluded that today's exceptionally low interest rates on federal funds have turned our economy upside down, so that policies like unemployment insurance that pay people for not working these days actually get people back to work.

A 1983 study by Lars Peter Hansen of the University of Chicago and Kenneth Singleton of Stanford showed that short-term rates on Treasury bills and short-term returns on stocks traded on the New York Stock Exchange had very little correlation with consumer spending. Many empirical studies have confirmed this sort of result (this comparison of inflation-adjusted Treasury bill returns and business sector profitability is a recent example).
Nevertheless, a few economists working on the relationship between short-term interest rates and the economy still assume that consumer spending closely follows those rates (see, for example, the bottom of Page 5 of this paper). Their assumption can be useful for exploring other issues, so long as we keep in mind that the close relationship between short-term interest rates and consumer spending is their assumption, rather than a conclusion or an empirical finding.
For a number of reasons, consumer spending, growth of gross domestic product and other important indicators of economic activity might be weakly correlated with the federal funds rate. For one, much economic activity - such as the many employees working for small businesses - occurs separately from financial markets.
It is also easy to exaggerate the linkages between various financial markets. Eugene Fama of the University of Chicago recently studied the relationship between the markets for overnight loans and the markets for long-term bonds. He found that Federal Reserve policies had an obvious effect on the federal funds rate and perhaps also on rates on commercial paper (the market for large short-term loans to businesses). 
But Professor Fama found the yields on long-term government bonds to be largely immune from Fed policy changes.
For all these reasons, the right explanation for the failure of our economy to rebound from the 2008-9 recession lies far beyond the market for federal funds.
Because of an editing error, an earlier version of this post defined the federal funds rate incorrectly. It is the rate charged on overnight loans among banks, not a rate for overnight lending by the Fed to banks.

        
The Next Inflation: When, Why and So What?
        
Who Captured the Fed?
        
What Monetary Policy Cannot Do
        
Other Ways to Look at G.D.P. and What It Tells Us
        
In Lost Opportunity of 1932, Are There Lessons for Today?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); INTEREST RATES (95%); MONETARY POLICY (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); COMMERCIAL PAPER (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); CONSUMER SPENDING (77%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); BONDS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (51%) Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; economic growth; Federal Reserve; Federal Reserve Bank of New York; inflation; Interest Rates; stimulus; Economic Conditions and Trends; United States Economy; Federal Reserve System; Today's Economist

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (54%) Federal Reserve System

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



937 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: The Recycling Reflex

BYLINE: DAVID BORNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: An initiative to use simpler, standardized signs and labels is helping communities reap greater benefits from recycling. 

 BODY:
What if there were something that could create 1.5 million new jobs, reduce carbon emissions equal to taking 50 million cars off the road, cut dependence on foreign oil, increase exports, save water, improve air quality and reduce toxic waste? What if it were low-cost and readily implemented? Wouldn't everyone do it? At a time of wildfires, droughts and persistent unemployment, wouldn't it be a centerpiece of the presidential campaign?
Well, there is such a thing. It's called recycling. You might ask: Don't we already do that? We think we do, but most of the time, we don't. Nationally, only about a third of municipal solid waste is recycled. (In New York City, it's 15 percent.) And, even when Americans make the effort, we frequently make mistakes that contaminate recyclables - throwing that plate of spaghetti in with those newspapers - so that contents of recycling bins become un-reusable and end up in landfills.
The numbers in the first paragraph come from a report prepared by the Tellus Institute for the National Resources Defense Council and other groups entitled "More Jobs, Less Pollution" that estimates the impact of raising the country's recycling rate to 75 percent. Is this possible? To be sure, it would take a sustained national campaign backed by government incentives and regulations, the kind that have proven effective in many cities.

Most people have only a vague idea of the benefits of recycling. When we don't recycle, we waste huge amounts of water and energy, for example. If you recycle just aluminum can every day for a year, it saves the energy needed to run a television for 711 hours, roughly four hours a day for six months (not that I'm advocating that much TV viewing). You can do your own fun calculations using this E.P.A. tool.
Moreover, recycling is great for a struggling economy because it is labor intensive. Recall Economics 101: the three factors of production are land, labor and capital. When we recycle, we switch from land (natural resources) to labor. Recycling needs people to collect, sort, process, compost and prepare materials. Even though two-thirds of the nation's waste goes into landfills, 85 percent of all the jobs associated with waste come from recycling and reuse activities (pdf p.5). Recycling creates jobs that won't be sent offshore.
So why don't people recycle more? It's easy to blame apathy, but often people neglect to do the right thing because they're confused. Research on behavior change emphasizes the need to make desired behaviors as simple as possible - removing the need to make decisions, so people act reflexively.
That is why one of the most important environmental fixes taking root today is an initiative to standardize recycling labels It's only one piece in a complex puzzle, but it's such a central piece that it seems amazing it's been overlooked for a generation
"For years, with recycling, we've been focusing on trigonometry and forgetting about one plus one," says Mitch Hedlund, the founder of Recycle Across America (R.A.A.), a Minneapolis-based organization that is leading this initiative. She adds: "I go to recycling conferences where the bins say 'Recycle Only' and even the people there have to look inside and ask, 'Should I put newspaper in or just cans?' If it's confusing for people in the industry, why would we expect that the general public will do it?"
Hedlund believes that this problem will not be solved until recycling becomes automatic, like slowing down when you see a stop sign, for all the actors who play a role in the solution - consumers, janitors, building managers, waste haulers. "Imagine what would happen if everyone was responsible for creating their own Hedlund said. "That's what you have with recycling."
R.A.A. has developed a comprehensive set of standardized labels that are being adopted by a growing number of American and Canadian corporations, schools and government entities. They include Hallmark; Monsanto; AOL; Cummins; Koch Industries; Johns Hopkins University; the Army Corps of Engineers; the town of Banff, Alberta; the county of Arlington, Virginia, and potentially the province of Manitoba. (R.A.A., a nonprofit, sells its labels at low prices, to sustain itself, and uses licensing fees to provide free labels to schools and other groups and to develop other environmental solutions.)
Industries often evolve for years before they establish standards. It took traffic engineers decades to standardize road signs. The red octagonal stop sign became the norm only in 1954, almost a half-century after the introduction of the Model T Ford. Years of experiments with diverse emergency response systems preceded the 1967 Presidential commission that led to the 911 standard.
The problem with the recycling logo - the chasing arrows - is that it doesn't tell you what to do. Recycling has rules, but they vary across companies, schools, municipalities, churches and restaurants. Many places, for instance, have switched to "single stream" or "commingled" recycling, allowing people to throw glass, paper, cans and plastics in the same bin. (They are later separated at a "materials recovery facility.").
Others have "dual stream" policies. Some separate paper, which is often contaminated by broken glass. Others separate glass, cans or cardboard. More communities are diverting organic waste for compost. And there are recycling streams for electronics, batteries, toner cartridges, yard waste and a variety of construction materials. As a result, the current landscape is a hodgepodge of signs that are scribbled haphazardly and often stuck on bins or walls with Scotch tape. In addition to the lack of clarity, the overall impression is that recycling is low priority.
Hedlund, an entrepreneur who had built her own communications company, recognized the need for standardization after speaking to many people who had the same problem. Corporate sustainability directors said they spent 70 percent of their time just getting people to recycle properly. Companies eager to use more recycled materials in their manufacturing were constrained by supply shortages, contamination and price.
"Our commitment to sustainability includes using recycled materials in our products and packaging, but the availability of these materials is oftentimes a barrier," explained Michele Whyle, head of sustainability and quality for consumer products at 3M, which is deploying R.A.A.'s labels across its headquarters. One example is recycled polyethylene, a primary source of which is recycled water bottles. As a commodity, recycled polyethylene has an unpredictable supply chain. At the same time, in 2010, Americans dumped 50 billion plastic bottles (and 26 billion glass bottles) in landfills.
Consider Marsden Holdings, which employs thousands of janitors who speak 78 languages and clean over 200 million square feet of office and building space around the country. Marsden is encouraging clients to use R.A.A.'s labels because the color-coding and images, along with training, help janitors do their jobs better, says Chris Norgren, who oversees facility services for the company's central division. "When our folks know what they're doing, they work faster," he said. "Our property management clients are pleased. And it cuts back the criticisms about janitors dumping recycling into the trash." Marsden's clients are also discovering that it's good for the bottom line; the firm is increasingly offering recycling audits. "These huge buildings create so much business waste," says Norgren. "They save a lot of money when they reduce their waste hauling." (Waste hauling is taxed at much higher rates than recyclables.)
Another firm that is offering clients R.A.A.'s standardized labels is Veolia Environmental Services, one of the largest hauling and disposal companies in the world, which manages waste and recycling for many Fortune 500 corporations. "We started using the labels this year with a number of accounts and already we've seen an impact in the amount of recyclables collected," noted Kevin Zenkevich, senior director for strategic accounts. "In a few cases, we've seen increases of more than 50 percent in recycling volumes."
Standardization is particularly important for a mobile workforce. NBCUniversal uses R.A.A.'s labels on the sets of its productions in the United States and Canada. Shannon Bart, the sustainability director, said that R.A.A.'s labels helped make recycling consistent across sets - important because contractors move from job to job. "People don't have to learn a whole new system every time they work on a new show," said Bart. "We're helping to spread this throughout the entertainment industry." Disney Motion Pictures has gotten on board. NBCUniversal has a store on R.A.A.'s site where it can purchase labels customized with its corporate logo.
This September, the National Wildlife Federation, which runs a program called Eco-Schools USA, will be introducing R.A.A.'s labels in 1,000 schools thanks to a donation from Kiehls. In 2010, when a group of schools in the Twin Cities implemented a program using consistent labeling (but not R.A.A.'s labels), recycling increased by 47 percent.
In schools across the country, people are trying to create good recycling programs. They end up inventing different versions of the wheel. "Having consistency community to community and school to school helps educate children about what needs to be recycled," notes Laura Hickey, who directs Eco-Schools USA. "If you're a student and you have all the bins labeled a certain way in elementary school and then you go to middle school and it looks completely different, you have to undergo a new learning process."
Standardized labels alone aren't sufficient; they have to be incorporated in education and training. But they are a necessary linchpin to establish consistent communications across all media. If the images on the e-mails, fliers, posters, banner ads, TV commercials, billboards and news shows match the labels on the bins, the message gets reinforced. Over time, it becomes ingrained.
Recycling, even if done perfectly, also won't be enough to address our environmental problems. Deeper changes are needed of course - rethinking how much we consume, where we live, how we get around, how we design products. But getting people to modify behavior in small, positive ways has proven effective in spurring bigger lifestyle changes. It's a place to start, or in the case of recycling, to re-start. "We need to solve the basic elephant-size problem that involves the general public's experience and perception of recycling," says Hedlund. "It's time for a little simplicity in a very complex industry." 

-- 

        
Nanny Nation
        
Are We Living in Sensory Overload or Sensory Poverty?
        
Green Roofs in Big Cities Bring Relief From Above
        
The Wages of Eco-Angst
        
Harnessing Local Pride for Global Conservation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); LANDFILLS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AIR QUALITY (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); DROUGHT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (58%) Environment; labels; recycling; waste materials and disposal; Recycling of Waste Materials; Sustainable Living; Waste Materials and Disposal; Fixes

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



938 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1679 words

HEADLINE: Answers to Your Questions on Skilled Immigration

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Scholars from the Brookings Institution answer reader-submitted questions about H-1B visas. 

 BODY:
7/26/12 | Updated 
Last week we asked you to submit questions about skilled immigrants and in particular the H-1B visa program they often work under. Responses from Neil G. Ruiz, Jill H. Wilson and Shyamali Choudhury, who recently wrote about this topic for the Brookings Institution, are shown below. 
Q.

- Chris, Ellicott City, Md.
A.
Under the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1990, employers hiring H-1B workers are required to pay the average wage (or higher) for the occupation and geographical area for which they are hiring. In addition, employers are forbidden to pay H-1B workers less than they pay other workers with similar skills and qualifications.
A 2008 United States government study found that 13 percent of H-1B petitions included some type of fraud, and an additional 7 percent had technical violations. Over all, almost 4 percent of petitions were found to be in violation of the prevailing wage requirement.
Fraud was found to be more prevalent among smaller, less established companies and among occupations in accounting, human resources, business analysis, sales, and advertising. Negotiations are currently under way in Congress to beef up H-1B fraud prevention.
 
Q.

- rational expectations, Westchester, N.Y.
A.
Our report did not look specifically at the impact of high-skilled foreign workers on employment, so we will defer to the work of others in this answer.
William Kerr at Harvard Business School has shown the connection between high-skilled immigration and innovation. His paper demonstrates that inventions, as measured by the number of patents filed, have increased because of contributions of foreign inventors admitted through programs like the H-1B visa program. It is unclear if there is a direct connection to job creation, but breakthrough patents could have the effect of creating more jobs.
A study by Madeline Zavodny shows that even during the tough economic times of the last few years, immigration on the whole has not hurt the job prospects of native-born Americans and that high-skilled immigrants are correlated with an increase in jobs for natives.
On the other hand, an A.F.L.-C.I.O. study by Paul Almeida argues that programs like the H-1B visa incentivize the displacement of native workers because employers may prefer foreign workers for their lower cost and exploitability. Ron Hira at the Rochester Institute of Technology assertsthat H-1B workers are not complements but are direct substitutes for American workers.
We recognize the concerns and limitations of both sides of this debate. The challenge for policy makers is to figure how to meet the demand for high-skilled workers by developing an immigration policy that allows the United States to continue to attract the foreign workers that it needs, while at the same time educating and training American workers for these jobs in the near future.
Q.

- Angela, CA
A.
The demand for H-1B immigrant workers is not just a high-tech Silicon Valley story; rather it is a story of American employers across the country, in metro areas large and small, requesting high-skilled workers in a variety of occupations. This includes American manufacturers searching for specific skills in America's heartland.
Although our research shows that San Jose, Calif., home to Silicon Valley, is the No. 1 metropolitan area in demand for H-1B workers relative to its work force size, Columbus, Ind., ranks second.
This is driven mostly by Cummins Inc., an advanced manufacturer specializing in clean technologies for automotive engines headquartered there. The company has experienced exponential growth over the past several years, even during the recession, and most of its requests for H-1B workers are for engineers.
Other metro areas in the Midwest have a high demand for STEM H-1B workers. For instance, in Bloomington, Ill., 94.8 percent of all H-1B requests are for STEM occupations, the highest share of all metro areas in the country. These are driven by companies like Patni Americas Inc., which provides information-technology services for State Farm.
Columbus, Ind., ranks second for STEM share (88.8 percent) and No. 3 is Peoria, Ill., where the heavy equipment maker Caterpillar is headquartered. Midwestern metros like these are looking to the H-1B visa program to build a skilled labor force.
Q.

- Austin AI, Austin, TX
A.
Outsourcing is the result of many interrelated factors. United States immigration policy can play a role by making it difficult for American employers to hire foreigners to work here; some companies work around these restrictions by moving operations to a country where it is easier to bring in foreign workers.
Currently, employers who want to hire an H-1B worker are not required to perform labor market tests to ensure there are no available American workers, but only attest that no American worker has been displaced at their company as a result. This oversight process facilitates speedy H-1B approvals but relies on post-admission site visits to detect fraud and abuse.
In 2010 in an effort to discourage H-1B dependence, President Obama signed a law adding $2,000 to the fees that employers are required to pay for an H-1B visa if the employer has at least 50 employees in the United States and more than half of them are in H-1B or L-1 nonimmigrant status.
These and other H-1B visa fees, paid by employers, are used to fund technical skills training and STEM education (at the K-12 and postsecondary levels) in American communities in an effort to train our existing work force to do the jobs that H-1Bs are currently hired to do, as well as help finance fraud prevention and detection.
Q.

- John Gary, Boulder Colo.
A.
The years of education demanded by the average American job is growing, and the educational level of American workers has fallen behind to some extent. However, there is disagreement about the existence of a shortage of science, technology, engineering and mathematics workers in the United States.
Some argue that the American educational system lacks rigor in these fields and that American students lack the interest or ability to pursue these occupations to the extent that our companies need them. Others argue that we are in fact graduating enough students in STEM every year but that they are being diverted to work in other fields. Meanwhile, American companies that report having trouble finding qualified workers among the existing work force are using the H-1B program to fill job openings.
Q.

- Highly Skilled, NY
A.
H-1B visas are temporary worker visas filed by employers, but they are also dual-intent - meaning that with employer sponsorship, these visas can be converted into green cards for legal permanent residency. One significant concern of this structure is that workers on H-1B visas cannot leave their employer while waiting for green-card sponsorship, which can be over a decade for those coming from countries with significant backlogs, because of green-card quotas.
The point-based systems of other countries, including Canada, Australia and Britain, consider economic and business needs when admitting immigrants, and would represent a significant departure from the current United States emphasis on family reunification. Current gridlock in Congress makes the possibility of such systemic reform unlikely in the near future, but smaller reforms are gaining ground.
In an important step toward reducing the green-card backlog, the Fairness for High-Skilled Immigrants Act of 2011, which passed the House in November, is active again after Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, lifted his hold on the legislation last week.
Q.

- Banty, Upstate New York
A.
 When applying for an H-1B visa, all employers submit a Labor Condition Application (LCA) stating compliance with prevailing wage, strike and lockout regulation, and notice of intent to hire an H-1B worker. However, only H-1B dependent employers (generally defined as 15+ percent of an organization on H-1B visas) are required to provide a labor market attestation to verify that no American workers are displaced before hiring an H-1B worker. As a result, some argue that the LCA process is a relatively weak screening mechanism. The current system relies on post-issuance enforcement through government site visits to employer locations to verify identities, job descriptions, and salaries of H-1B workers.
In general, the existence of a labor shortage in STEM fields is not established, and there is research both in support of, and against, this possibility.
Q.

- endorendil, Belgium
A.
The brain-drain issue is a significant concern for many countries that want to retain their own educated professionals for their labor market needs. But many countries see the value of sending their citizens to get trained in American universities so that they return with higher skills.
For example, the Brazilian president set up a scholarship program to send Brazil's best undergraduate students for a year to study at American universities in science, technology, engineering and mathematics programs. Most nations understand that a skilled work force is essential to economic growth. A balance of international immigration policies, educational quality and migration trends plays a large part in determining where high-skilled workers get their education and use their skills.
To train the American work force for highly technical occupations, the fees charged to employers requesting H-1B visas are distributed by the Employment and Training Administration of the Department of Labor and the National Science Foundation to local areas. This provides an opportunity for the existing work force to upgrade their skills so that they can be hired for jobs that employers seek through the H-1B visa program. These H-1B visa fee programs are one method for providing short- and long-term training so that American employers do not have to rely on hiring high-skilled foreigners.

        
Bring Your Questions on Skilled Immigrants
        
What We're Reading: Democratic Optimism
        
Paying for Innovation
        
Children of Immigrants Study More
        
Where Manufacturing Is Gaining

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (92%); FOREIGN LABOR (91%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (88%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (76%); HUMAN RESOURCES (76%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (76%); PETITIONS (73%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (73%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (70%); PATENTS (69%); CRIME PREVENTION (68%) Brookings Institution; H-1B; Immigration; Open Market; skilled workers; Visas (Des);; Foreign Workers; Hiring and Promotion; Immigration and Emigration; Labor and Jobs; Visas

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (93%) Brookings Institution

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



939 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: McKinsey Says Social Media Could Add $1.3 Trillion to the Economy

BYLINE: QUENTIN HARDY


HIGHLIGHT: McKinsey has published a report that says social media in business can vastly improve both customer awareness and productivity among the highest-value workers. The challenge is not so much in the tools as in persuading people to use them and become used to the idea of sharing what they know. 

 BODY:
And you thought Facebook's valuation was big.
McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the business consulting giant, has just published a lengthy study on "unleashing value and productivity through social technologies." The short version is that things like improved communication and collaboration from social media in four major business sectors could add $900 billion to $1.3 trillion in value to the economy.
The value is mostly through added productivity. Improved consumer focus as well as better-functioning teams are two other benefits. That is a great big number, likely to attract attention. McKinsey last did that in May 2011, with a report that said that by 2018 the United States could face a shortfall of 1.5 million data analysts and managers able to cope with the flood of data in their businesses.
The report adds credence to a recent flood of social media acquisitions from companies like Oracle, Salesforce and Microsoft. Big companies with large corporate customers have been spending billions on everything from better ways to manage how customers view them in chat rooms to internal communications software that looks and works like Facebook.
Social technologies like wikis, broadly accessible instant messaging, content searches and user forums, McKinsey says, are particularly effective among so-called interactions workers. These people are general managers, for example, but also consultative sales representatives, engineers working with teams to figure out new products, or health care workers personally figuring out patients' needs. 
Since they work with a lot of autonomy, but also in consultation with others, interactions workers benefit the most from knowing such things as which employees have the deepest knowledge in certain subjects, or who last contributed to a project, and how to get in touch with them quickly.
"The industries with the highest percentage of interactions workers have the highest spread of profits per employee," said Michael Chui, one of the authors of the report. "It's low in mining, but can vary by nine times in banking. If you can make these people more effective, you can make the biggest difference."
There are challenges to using social media effectively, the report says, and it could take years to put these productivity tools in place correctly. The main challenges are organizational and personal, as managers have to develop nonhierarchical cultures, where data and knowledge are exposed and shared, not hoarded.
"These technologies are successful when influential people are role models, using them and explaining them," Mr. Chui said.
Uh-oh: once again, no matter how good the machines, people still have to be good, too. And that remains no simple matter.

        
Big Business's Social Media Buying Frenzy
        
Business Cloud Consulting Is Consolidating
        
Bottling the Magic Behind Google and Facebook
        
Apple Steps Further Into the Business Market
        
Hurd Sells Oracle's Cloud in the Oracle Style

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (91%); SOCIAL MEDIA (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); WRITERS (73%); INSTANT MESSAGING (72%); SALES FORCE (72%); CHAT ROOMS (72%); SALES & SELLING (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%) Enterprise; Facebook; McKinsey; Microsoft; Oracle; Salesforce; Social Media; Enterprise Computing; Productivity; Social Networking (Internet); McKinsey & Co; Social

COMPANY: MCKINSEY & CO INC (92%); ORACLE CORP (71%); FACEBOOK INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%); GOOGLE INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: McKinsey & Co

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (71%); FB (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (92%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (71%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (71%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (71%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (71%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (71%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



940 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 2606 words

HEADLINE: When Publicity Precedes Peer Review in the Fight Over Gas Impacts

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A scary study pointing to prenatal health risks from fracking gets publicized before peer review. 

 BODY:
11:15 p.m. | Updated below | As I promised in an earlier post on transparency and conflicts of interest in the fight over natural gas drilling, here's my piece on the importance of peer review in gauging the merits of research findings wielded by the "ban" or "bonanza" factions in this continuing battle.
The piece focuses on a new and as-yet-unpublished (but much publicized) study of fetal health in relation to gas drilling by Elaine L. Hill, a doctoral candidate in Cornell University's department of applied economics and management. (Next week I'll explore the latest effort to use government cancer registry data to imply that gas drilling is causing breast cancer in Texas's Barnett Shale region.)
Hill's work has focused on birth weight and other measures of the condition of babies born to women living close to gas wells in rural Pennsylvania and is summarized so far in a "working paper" titled "Unconventional Natural Gas Development and Infant Health: Evidence from Pennsylvania."
The paper would have been an unremarkable draft of a graduate student's research results had it not been disseminated last week with the help of a public relations firm retained by the nonprofit group New Yorkers Against Fracking and featured at a public forum run in Manhattan by Democrats in the State Senate.
That day, Hill was hailed by Sandra Steingraber, a scholar in residence at Ithaca College who is fighting gas drilling:
"I think the courage she is showing today in coming forward and speaking truth to power should be matched by other acts of courage by members of our own state government," Sandra Steingraber, distinguished scholar in residence for the department of environmental studies at Ithaca College, said before Hill's testimony. Steingraber said she believes Hill's paper should be peer reviewed, but also feels science is having a tough time keeping up with the rush to get new fracking measures in place. [Epoch Times]
Hill, despite her initial excitement about getting a chance to add her voice to the fracking debate and discuss her work, is now expressing big misgivings about having stepped into a realm in which caveats melt away -- particularly given the early stage of her career.
I hope you'll follow along with the exchanges below to see how science -- however tentative -- can get abused when publicity precedes peer review.
[11:20 p.m. | Updated | Prompted by Twitter discussions, I'm adding this note to stress that publicity has preceded peer review on research supportive of fracking, as well, as was the case recently with a State University of New York, Buffalo, study.]
Hill is clearly a promising researcher, and she's had an early immersion in the acid bath of policy-relevant science that will likely stand her in good stead going forward.
On July 18, Dan Levitan, a publicist at BerlinRosen Public Affairs, sent out a pitch to journalists:
Attached is a new study from a researcher at Cornell, the first to suggest evidence of a direct link between fracking and human health. It analyzes the correlation between proximity to hydro-fracking wells and low-birth weight and other troubling outcomes for newborns.
The study looked at nearly 2,500 newborns whose mothers lived within 2.5 km of fracking wells in Pennsylvania and found an increase in the occurrence of low birth weight by 25%, an increase in the occurrence of small for gestational age by 17%, and a reduction in 5-minute APGAR scores (a test given to newborns to make sure they are breathing properly immediately after birth).
Of course, it's just one study and more analysis is needed, but the numbers are certainly alarming. (By comparison, a recent study of smoking mothers in NJ showed just a 2% increase in the occurrence of low-birth weight.)
Elaine Hill, the report's author will be presenting her work at today's Senate Democrats public forum on fracking in NYC, we wanted to see if you would like to report on her findings first. We can put you in touch with Elaine, as well as Ted Schettler the often-quoted public health expert who has reviewed Elaine's work.
I sent Levitan and Hill this note:
Fascinating work but a couple of questions. Is this published, or being published, in a peer-reviewed journal? That's a critical prerequisite for me to pay attention.
Also, who is paying for an independent public relations firm (you) here?
Levitan responded:
Elaine can tell you more, but the answer is not yet. As you know, publication in a peer-reviewed journal is the end of a long process (12-18 months or more) of soliciting feedback from colleagues, presenting at conferences and refining your work.
But that does not mean that these preliminary results do not raise critical questions that should be discussed, and several scientists who have reviewed Elaine's work would agree.
BerlinRosen is working with New Yorkers Against Fracking, who found out about Elaine's study.
Here's a followup question I posed to Hill:
Did you pursue publication through any of the rapid turnaround journals, which range from the PLoS family of journals to PNAS (which can be very quick)?
Hill replied:
I have not yet pursued publication as I am still getting feedback from experts in the field of economics. As quickly as I'd like this to be published, I do not want to rush it and feel that it is important to get the necessary feedback.
Given what Hill had said at the forum (quoted widely by various Web sites), I found this comment startling and asked:
How can you possibly reconcile the following two statements?
1) I have not yet pursued publication as I am still getting feedback from experts in the field of economics. As quickly as I'd like this to be published, I do not want to rush it and feel that it is important to get the necessary feedback.
2) "My study is robust across multiple specifications and it indicates that our future generation may be seriously harmed." (many blogs and articles)
Hill:
I made clear at the forum...that my results are preliminary and require time to go through peer review. My paper will go through the peer review process and I look forward to hearing reaction and critique from other scientists. That said, I think that my findings suggest that further study is needed to determine if living in close proximity to unconventional natural gas development is a threat to human health.
The fact that results should not be cited prior to peer review is valid; the point here is that we need to allow time for these results, and perhaps others that counter them, to undergo peer review....
But these findings are serious enough to suggest that we shouldn't rush to do more drilling before taking the time for more study.
I sent her some reactions to her working paper from a variety of scientists and risk analysts conducting or evaluating epidemiological research examining environmental drivers of disease (which I'm appending below). After reading them, Hill sent this note:
*I'd like to clarify what my paper does and does not do. When I mention all the potential stressors that may exist in these communities during the drilling process, it is meant to acknowledge that we do not have enough science to help identify the mechanisms that may explain any changes that I find. I cannot say which of the potential externalities associated with gas drilling are driving the impacts that I find. I acknowledge explicitly in my paper that migration [] is something that I cannot control for directly and is a potential threat to my research design. I do not, however, find any changes in the socio-economic status of the mothers when comparing before and after drilling, which is considered a valid check by my field.
The study compares before and after drilling within small distances (the recently reported upon distance is 2.5 kilometer or close to 1.5 miles) of the well head. It has limited external validity and requires replication in other contexts. It is designed to achieve causal inference by exploiting the natural experiment created by the introduction of gas development, at standard levels of statistical significance, no different than any other non-randomized double blind control trial. The findings, as reported, suggest that there are negative health impacts, as defined by changes in the prevalence of low birth weight, when comparing before and after drilling.
Without detailed information about exposure, I cannot identify a dose response, that the medical community may be interested in seeing. The paper is meant to invite further research into the mechanisms so that we can determine whether these impacts are driven by specific pollutants in the air or water, by light or sound pollution, or other changes that may have happened to these communities, some of which could be unrelated to gas development. Finally, while the paper does invite further research, it is meant to provide defensible findings on the impacts of unconventional natural gas development. The language in my paper is strong, as it prepares for peer review, following the example of other peer-reviewed papers using similar research designs in the field of economics, but is not meant to mislead the reader regarding the caveats surrounding these findings.
We had a long telephone conversation, in which Hill conveyed deeply mixed feelings about having accepted an invitation from anti-fracking campaigners to speak at a political forum on such a charged topic -- one she is personally very concerned about as a young woman who plans to be a mother, and which has also become the focus of her academic research:
As a young researcher, I was gratified to be invited to speak at the fracking forum and to think that my research, despite its preliminary working status, could contribute to the discussion. But it would be misleading and troubling to have the policy conversation mostly built on non-peer-reviewed science.
I, of course, knew that my words could be taken out of context without the necessary caveats, but did not anticipate this level of appropriation.
Personally, I do not want to be in the policy spotlight so it is in my best interest to back out of the conversation now and focus on my work.
Here's some of the input I received from researchers doing epidemiological work or analyzing the relationship of the environment to human health:
Lisa McKenzie of the Colorado School of Public Health, who -- like Hill -- has expressed concerns about the health risks posed by natural gas operations and has done research pointing to health effects from drilling, declined to directly critique the paper. But she questioned the merits of a public discussion of research findings before taking the time for formal peer review:
In my experience, a typical peer review and publication cycle usually takes 4 to 8 months. Several journals release important studies on-line, after peer review and prior to formal publication, which can be even faster. Any results released prior to peer review should be approached with extreme caution.
David Ropeik, a risk communication consultant and author of "How Risky is it, Really?," was very tough on the paper:
This is a badly suspect piece of work. It should fail a decent freshman Intro to Epidemiology course. Egregious leaps and claims, humongous missing pieces of information, language powerfully suggestive of bias. Specifics below.
Some quick replies on a first scan.
I would be extraordinarily wary of any researcher who says "the link between cause and effect is immediate" (page 3). A fundamental truth of epidemiology is that it RARELY finds, conclusively, that A CAUSES B. Several other phrases in the Introduction that talk about 'causal' relationships strengthen this concern.
The litany of potential stressors - noise, lights, "chemicals" -- in the intro sounds like a shopping list from someone looking to find a relationship, another caution flag about the researcher's intent, ergo, the credibility of the product.
This one is really a red flag: "this paper provides evidence of a composite effect" (combined air and water pollution) on infant health" (page 6). That is a massively speculative reach, a kind of "let's throw all the mud at the wall and count what sticks" approach. Air pollution effects depend on the specific pollutants; particles (and their size), toxics, etc. Same with water pollution. This general sort of "composite effect" sounds unspecific and blurry, enough to cast doubt on the findings.
What does the section on "land men" and leasing payments have to do with the science being done here? (pages 6 and 8) Nothing that I can think of.
This sounds incredible unequivocal: "Preliminary evidence indicates that NGD [] produces toxic waste that contaminates the air, aquifers, waterways, and ecosystems that surround drilling sites" (page 8). My rudimentary understanding is that this is site specific, and hardly as resolved as the author makes it sound.
"Cocktail of chemicals" (page 8) is suspiciously environmentalist sort of language.
The bit about radiation strongly suggests a bias in the investigator. It is devoid of meaningful data: dose, radionuclides (which bears on biological plausibility of this being a risk factor).
And these two statements confirm the case against the scientific credibility of the work, and summarize what I think are fair allegations about bias.
In "Conclusions," the author writes, "These results suggest that natural gas wells close to pregnant mothers' residences increased LBW by 25%, increased small for gestational age by 17% and reduced 5 minute APGAR scores, when compared to pregnant mothers' residences that are close to a future well (permit)."
And she adds, "This paper provides evidence that exposure within at least 1.5 miles is very detrimental to fetal development." What an outrageously unsupported claim. An association? Yes. Worth further investigation? Sure. "Evidence of harm"? Not even close. Any reader the least bit familiar with epidemiology should be deeply suspicious of this work....
Daniel Greenbaum, the president of the Health Effects Institute, a 32-year-old research hub focused on the health impacts of air pollution, said this preliminary reaction:
I have not had a chance to read this in detail, and won't be able to for a few days, but did note the following KEY statement in the paper: "In the subsequent paper, the difference-in-differences research design, (emphasis added). I don't really know this approach in detail, but there are a host of things that could be different in the two groups that could make a real difference to the outcomes - socioeconomic status, prior health status, maternal medical care, obstetric care.
I generally agree with David Ropeik (albeit with a bit less drama) that the overall communication is highly suspect and would be amazed if it gets published at a reputable journal (and the "it's too important to wait for peer review" comment is particularly troubling). We may in the end find there are very REAL effects of fracking. (The Health Effects Institute is beginning to see if there is a role for us in examining that in a systematic way.) But there is a lot of not very impressive science out there (there is some quite good work also: e.g. the work of Robert Jackson at Duke).
 | Related Event | I'll be participating in a panel discussion tonight on gas drilling and the fracking process at the Carey Conference Center in Rensselaerville, N.Y. Details are here.
[5:04 p.m. | Updated | * ]

        
University of Texas Will Review Gas Study After Conflict Questions Raised
        
'Gasland' Filmmaker Takes on Cuomo and 'Dot.FlatEarth'
        
Beyond Hype, a Closer Look at New York's Choice on Shale Gas
        
From 9/11/2001 to 9/11/2011 and Beyond
        
On Earthquakes, Warming and Risk (Mis)Perception

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (77%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (77%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); BREAST CANCER (75%); CARCINOGENS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (73%); CHILDREN (73%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%) activism; Air Pollution; Cancer; Chemicals; epidemiology; fracking; gasland; health; hype; Statistics; Ropeik, David; Academic and Scientific Journals; Breast Cancer; Energy and Power; Hydraulic Fracturing; Natural Gas; Pregnancy and Childbirth; Research; Texas; Water Pollution; Cornell University; Health Effects Institute; Ithaca College; New York State; Pennsylvania; energy; science

COMPANY: NATURAL GAS DEVELOPMENT INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (91%) Cornell University; Health Effects Institute; Ithaca College

PERSON: Ropeik, David

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York State; Pennsylvania; Texas

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



941 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Artist Group Petitions Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles

BYLINE: RANDY KENNEDY


HIGHLIGHT: A group called MOCA Mobilization, led by the Los Angeles artists Diane Thater and Cindy Bernard, created the petition to begin a search for a new chief curator and also for a senior curator. 

 BODY:
The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, which has been in a harsh spotlight since its chief curator, Paul Schimmel, resigned under pressure in late June and all the artists on its board of trustees left in protest, is now the subject of an online petition demanding that it make curatorial changes to right itself.
A group called MOCA Mobilization, led by the Los Angeles artists Diane Thater and Cindy Bernard, created the petition on the website Change.org on Tuesday, calling on the museum to begin a search for a new chief curator as well as for a senior curator, a position being vacated by Philipp Kaiser, who was recently named the director of the Museum Ludwig in Cologne, Germany. (MOCA has another senior curator, Alma Ruiz.)
The director of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Jeffrey Deitch, said after Mr. Schimmel's departure that he intended to leave the job of chief curator unfilled and to take on those duties himself, while supplementing the museum's own small curatorial staff with guest curators. Mr. Deitch, a former New York gallery owner who took over as director in 2010, has taken the museum in a more pop-culture-focused direction, rankling many in the Los Angeles art community.
The petition also called on the museum to find new artists to serve on its board of trustees, after the recent resignations of John Baldessari, Barbara Kruger, Catherine Opie and Ed Ruscha. "MOCA's relationship with the artist community at its core is broken," the petition argues, adding, "Artists are vital to the life of the museum and the artist trustees must remain informed."
On Friday, Mr. Deitch posted a message on the museum's Web site, seeking to assure museum patrons that he was taking the institution in the right direction. "It is essential that MOCA remain progressive and at the forefront of change, as it always has been," Mr. Deitch wrote. "The museum's upcoming program is a response to and an articulation of the current art and cultural landscape today."
MOCA Mobilization was founded in 2008, as the museum was undergoing a financial crisis that threatened to close it or force it to merge with another museum. As of Wednesday morning, the petition had registered 341 signatures.
An earlier version of this post referred incompletely to the position of senior curator at the Museum of Contemporary Art. While one senior curator, Philipp Kaiser, will become director of the Museum Ludwig in Cologne, Germany, Alma Ruiz remains at the museum as a senior curator. 

        
Former MOCA Chief Executive Calls for Deitch's Removal
        
MOCA Withdraws from Paul Schimmel's Richard Hamilton Show
        
Ed Ruscha, Last Artist on MoCA's Board, Resigns
        
Two More Artists Quit the Board of MoCA in Los Angeles
        
Chief Curator to Leave Museum of Contemporary Art, Los Angeles

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); PETITIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%) Jeffrey Deitch; Museum of Contemporary Art Los Angeles; Deitch, Jeffrey; Kruger, Barbara; Ruscha, Edward; Museums; Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art; Los Angeles (Calif); art & design

ORGANIZATION: Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art

PERSON: Deitch, Jeffrey; Kruger, Barbara; Ruscha, Edward

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (71%) Los Angeles (Calif)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012



942 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Foreign Policy

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Speaking at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention, Mitt Romney accused the Obama administration of betraying the country by leaking national security information. Mr. Romney's remarks represented an aggressive new attack on a commander in chief who has enjoyed public support for the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Though the speech included intense attacks on Mr. Obama's credentials, it also lacked new policy specifics, underscoring how much the Romney campaign has struggled to find sharp contrasts with the White House on foreign policy, Richard A. Oppel Jr. reports.
The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the health care overhaul would probably lead to an increase in the number of uninsured Americans and a modest reduction in costs to the federal government, Robert Pear reports. The estimate establishes grist for election-year debates in campaigns for the White House and Congress.

        
A Republican group backed by Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate, is starting a multi-million dollar advertising campaign in battleground states to win over Jewish voters who could potentially be persuaded to turn away from President Obama and support Mitt Romney, Jeff Zeleny reports. The effort represents an emerging Republican strategy of identifying voters who supported Mr. Obama four years ago but are now openly expressing disappointment.

        
Some of President Obama's most successful fund-raisers during his 2008 run are now ambassadors, and as federal employees, they are barred from engaging in political activities or helping him campaign, Mark Landler writes. It is one of the few handicaps of incumbency, and it could be a significant disadvantage in a year when Mitt Romney is expected to raise more money than the president.

        
A major typo was found in a deregulation bill that would mistakenly allow new rules to be issued only if the unemployment rate is 94 percent or higher, The Hill reports.

        
Representative Emanuel Cleaver II, Democrat of Missouri, is becoming known around the Capitol for the eccentric weekly letters he writes to fellow members of Congress, Politico reports. In one of them, he discussed the "Twilight" vampire series, saying: "They are disgusting. After all, everyone knows that real vampires and real werewolves don't date the same girl."

        
Former President George W. Bush and Laura Bush were spotted at the Romney campaign's Boston headquarters Tuesday, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
Dr. Jill Biden, the wife of the vice president, will attend the National Association of Social Workers annual conference to announce an initiative aimed at educating social workers on the challenges facing veterans and military families.

        
The Early Word: No Surprises
        
The Early Word: Persistent Woes
        
The Early Word: Ties That Bind
        
The Early Word: Clarity
        
The Weekend Word: Fighting Words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); FAMILY (70%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); EMANUEL CLEAVER (55%); SHELDON G ADELSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



943 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Foreign Policy

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Speaking at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention, Mitt Romney accused the Obama administration of betraying the country by leaking national security information. Mr. Romney's remarks represented an aggressive new attack on a commander in chief who has enjoyed public support for the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Though the speech included intense attacks on Mr. Obama's credentials, it also lacked new policy specifics, underscoring how much the Romney campaign has struggled to find sharp contrasts with the White House on foreign policy, Richard A. Oppel Jr. reports.
The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the health care overhaul would probably lead to an increase in the number of uninsured Americans and a modest reduction in costs to the federal government, Robert Pear reports. The estimate establishes grist for election-year debates in campaigns for the White House and Congress.

        
A Republican group backed by Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate, is starting a multi-million dollar advertising campaign in battleground states to win over Jewish voters who could potentially be persuaded to turn away from President Obama and support Mitt Romney, Jeff Zeleny reports. The effort represents an emerging Republican strategy of identifying voters who supported Mr. Obama four years ago but are now openly expressing disappointment.

        
Some of President Obama's most successful fund-raisers during his 2008 run are now ambassadors, and as federal employees, they are barred from engaging in political activities or helping him campaign, Mark Landler writes. It is one of the few handicaps of incumbency, and it could be a significant disadvantage in a year when Mitt Romney is expected to raise more money than the president.

        
A major typo was found in a deregulation bill that would mistakenly allow new rules to be issued only if the unemployment rate is 94 percent or higher, The Hill reports.

        
Representative Emanuel Cleaver II, Democrat of Missouri, is becoming known around the Capitol for the eccentric weekly letters he writes to fellow members of Congress, Politico reports. In one of them, he discussed the "Twilight" vampire series, saying: "They are disgusting. After all, everyone knows that real vampires and real werewolves don't date the same girl."

        
Former President George W. Bush and Laura Bush were spotted at the Romney campaign's Boston headquarters Tuesday, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
Dr. Jill Biden, the wife of the vice president, will attend the National Association of Social Workers annual conference to announce an initiative aimed at educating social workers on the challenges facing veterans and military families.

        
The Early Word: No Surprises
        
The Early Word: Persistent Woes
        
The Early Word: Ties That Bind
        
The Early Word: Clarity
        
The Weekend Word: Fighting Words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); FAMILY (70%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); EMANUEL CLEAVER (55%); SHELDON G ADELSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



944 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Pro-Obama Ad Delivers an Olympic-Themed Attack on Romney

BYLINE: MICHAEL D. SHEAR


HIGHLIGHT: As Mitt Romney heads to London for the Olympics, a sarcastic ad uses the image of Mr. Romney at the 2002 Olympics to underscore attacks about outsourcing and offshore bank accounts. 

 BODY:
On Friday, Mitt Romney will attend the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games in London, a moment his campaign hopes will rekindle the warm and fuzzy feelings surrounding his leadership of the Salt Lake City Games a decade ago.
President Obama's allies are hoping for something else altogether.
Priorities USA Action, the "super PAC" run by Mr. Obama's former aides, will begin airing a sarcastic ad on Wednesday using the image of Mr. Romney at the 2002 Olympics to underscore attacks about outsourcing and offshore bank accounts.
The ad -- which will run in Florida, Pennsylvania, Ohio and Virginia - shows Mr. Romney waving to the athletes from China, India, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, Burma and Switzerland as an Olympic-sounding announcer lists the Democratic attacks.
"We know the Swiss have a special place in Mitt Romney's wallet, er, heart," the announcer says as the Swiss athletes march into the games with Mr. Romney waving. "He kept millions in Swiss banks. Those Swiss sure know how to keep a secret."
The Priorities ad ends with the announcer saying: "You gotta say this about Mitt Romney. He sure knows how to go for the gold - for himself."
The biting nature of the ad is a reminder for the Republican campaign that the president and Democrats are not about to stand by while Mr. Romney uses his Olympic narrative to make political gains in the presidential election.
That story has been part of Mr. Romney's appeal for years. He wrote one book, called "Turnaround: Crisis, Leadership, and the Olympic Games," about how he helped rescue the financially troubled and scandal-ridden winter Games. He argued that his decision to leave Massachusetts was motivated by pure idealism, not political ambition.
"I was not coming to Salt Lake City to build infrastructure for Utah or to stimulate economic development," he wrote. "I was coming for a higher purpose-to restore reputation, to acquit the duties of the United States toward the world, and to restore the Games for the benefit of the athletes."
In the book, Mr. Romney describes in detail how he was wooed to become C.E.O. of the games, and how he worked to close its budget and credibility gap. That story dovetails well with the case he is making now to lead the country.
But his association with the Olympics also has some potential downsides. 
As seized on by Priorities USA Action, the Games have an international focus that provides Mr. Romney's rivals with an opportunity for tweaking at a time when many Americans are looking inward.
And then there's the attack on Mr. Romney's wealth. Mr. Obama's team has been relentlessly painting the Republican candidate as a rich politician who is out of touch with the concerns of average Americans at a time of financial struggles.
In that context, Mr. Romney is scheduled to attend the Olympic dressage competition, where his wife's horse, Rafalca, is performing the sport of horse ballet. Not exactly the everyman event of the Olympics.
And Mr. Obama's team has spent weeks questioning Mr. Romney's role at Bain Capital, the private equity firm he founded, during his Olympic tenure. The primary goal of the attacks was to link him to companies that shipped jobs overseas during that time.
But it also had the goal of tarnishing a bit his decision to leave Bain for the Olympics. David Axelrod, a senior campaign adviser for Mr. Obama, piled on this week by tweeting that some of the archival documents about Mr. Romney's tenure at the Olympics remain secret.
"Tax returns. Bundlers. Bain. MA records & now key docs from Olympics," Mr. Axelrod tweeted. "When it comes to secrecy, Mitt takes the gold!"
Mr. Axelrod was referring to an ABC News report suggesting that some of the records from that time are not likely to be made public, and some may even have been destroyed. A campaign spokeswoman told the network that Mr. Romney was not involved in any decisions about those records.
Mr. Romney is unlikely to shy away from using his Olympic story over the course of the next several months. His decision to attend the Olympics during his overseas trip this week suggests that the campaign thinks the political benefits outweigh any possible risks.
But once the current games are over in a few weeks, expect the Democrats to do what they can to make sure the presidential torch doesn't get passed to Mr. Romney in November.

        
The End of the Campaign Silly Season? Maybe Not
        
Campaign Videos Turn to Mocking Candidates
        
Campaigns Use Opponent's Words, and Cry Foul
        
Campaigns Duel Over Romney's Bain Record
        
Republicans Unveil New Anti-Obama Slogan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (96%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CRISIS MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (86%); CAUCUSES (78%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); BUDGETS (72%); SCANDALS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (50%) campaign ads; London Olympics; mitt romney; President Barack Obama; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Olympic Games (2012); Presidential Election of 2012; Democratic Party; Priorities USA Action; Turnaround: Crisis, Leadership, and the Olympic Games (Book); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; Priorities USA Action

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (94%); BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UTAH, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CHINA (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



945 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2319 words

HEADLINE: Morning Take-Out

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Highlights from the DealBook newsletter. 

 BODY:
TOP STORIES
New York Fed Faces Questions Over Policing Wall Street | As the Federal Reserve Bank of New York faced criticism for missing a multibillion-dollar trading loss at JPMorgan Chase, the regulator convened a town hall meeting in May to bolster employee morale. Two months later, the New York Fed staff members huddled again, after lawmakers questioned why the regulator had failed to rein in banks that manipulated benchmark interest rates.
"We were told to keep our heads down and stay focused," said one person present at the July meeting, who requested anonymity because the gathering was not public.
The New York Fed, whose weaknesses were first exposed when the financial crisis hit, is undergoing a new trial by fire as it grapples with how to police Wall Street. While the regulator has revamped its approach to overseeing the nation's biggest banks since the crisis, recent black eyes suggest that fundamental problems persist.
Lawmakers will most likely focus on the record of the New York Fed when Timothy F. Geithner, the regulator's former president, testifies on Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee. Mr. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary, will appear before a Senate panel on Thursday. DealBook 
When Picking a C.E.O. Is More Random Than Wise | What makes the perfect chief executive? If the way corporate boards at Yahoo and Duke Energy picked chief executives is any indication, it may be up to chance in large part, the Deal Professor writes.
Take Marissa Mayer, the newly appointed chief of Yahoo. The Yahoo board decided to go with youth and decisiveness over experience. In doing so, the company has agreed to pay a package that could exceed more than $100 million over five years if Ms. Mayer works out. Is she the right choice? It is hard to know. DealBook 
 DEAL NOTES
At Goldman Sachs, Something in the Water | Discolored tap water afflicted Goldman's gleaming new headquarters in Lower Manhattan earlier this month. DealBook 
On Wall Street, Gender Bias Runs Deep | Women make up more than half of the work force in the financial industry but are chief executives at fewer than 3 percent of American financial companies, Luisita Lopez Torregrosa reports for The International Herald Tribune. DealBook 
Adjusting to a Culture of Less Risk | Bloomberg News reports that some financial workers are finding solace in activities like the combat sport Muay Thai, as Wall Street jobs are affected by new regulations and economic malaise. "There's no sexiness, there's no fun, there's no intellectual intrigue, either," Ethan Garber, who ran proprietary portfolios for Credit Suisse and Bear Stearns, told Bloomberg. bloomberg news
Where Have Wall Street's Good Times Gone? | Reuters writes: "Ever since the financial crisis, U.S. banks and their investors have held out hopes of a return to the good times, when lending profits steadily rose and commercial and investment banking flourished together. But analysts and investors are now questioning whether things have changed for good." reuters
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Shareholders of London Metal Exchange Back $2.1 Billion Takeover | Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing won overwhelming support from London Metal Exchange's shareholders for its $2.1 billion takeover deal. DealBook 
Hong Kong Tycoon to Pay $1 Billion for British Gas Firm | The bid for MGN Gas Networks by four entities controlled by Li Ka-shing, Asia's richest person, seeks to broaden his global footprint in the energy sector. DealBook 
The Return of Merger Monday, July Edition | Deals normally evaporate in the middle of the summer as the temperature rises and bankers decamp for the beach. But the start of this week proved to be an exception to the rule and again revived the concept of a "Merger Monday." DealBook 
Cnooc's $15 Billion Deal Expected to Secure Approval | The Chinese energy giant's bid for Nexen "offers enough incentives to pass a likely lengthy Canadian government vetting process, said investment bankers and attorneys," The Wall Street Journal reports. wall street journal
Inside Cnooc's Nexen Deal | Reuters reports: "Nexen had been on the wish list of Chinese state oil company Cnooc for five years. The removal of C.E.O. Marvin Romanow was just the opening the Chinese needed to make their move, according to sources familiar with the situation." reuters
Qatar Fund Increases Stake in Xstrata | Qatar Holding, which is tussling with Glencore International over the terms of the trading firm's takeover of Xstrata, increased its stake in Xstrata to more than 11 percent, according to Reuters. reuters
Fate of Tiger Beer to Be Decided by Friday | The board of Fraser and Neave is weighing offers for its Tiger Beer asset, Reuters reports. reuters
INVESTMENT BANKING 
Former Lehman Operating Chief Puts Mansion Up for Sale | Joseph M. Gregory, Lehman Brothers' former chief operating officer, led a lavish lifestyle. It now seems that he has listed his Long Island mansion for sale, with an asking price of $22 million. DealBook 
Bond Trading Loses Some Swagger | Tighter regulations and electronic technology are revolutionizing the once-stodgy bond market, threatening profits and jobs, Nathaniel Popper and Peter Eavis write in The New York Times. DealBook 
Investment Banks Cut Jobs in Asia | According to the research firm Coalition, 18 percent of global layoffs from major banks happened in Asia in the first quarter, compared with 8 percent in 2011, The Wall Street Journal reports. wall street journal
Perella Weinberg to Assess the Value of a Brokerage Firm | The investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners has been called in to offer an assessment of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney, which is valued very differently by its two owners, Morgan Stanley and Citigroup, Reuters reports, citing two unidentified people familiar with the assignment. reuters
Bank Analyst Sees Little Benefit in Friendly Service | Richard X. Bove, the outspoken bank analyst, got a taste of unhelpful customer service at his Wells Fargo branch in Tampa, Fla. But the conclusion he reached, in a subsequent research note, was that customer service might actually distract banks from the more important job of selling products and managing risk, The New York Times reports. "I'm struck by the fact that the service is so bad, and yet the company is so good," he wrote. new york times
Wells Fargo's Murky Assets | Among big banks, Wells Fargo had the highest percentage of so-called Level 3 assets, which are relatively difficult to value, according to Standard & Poor's, Bloomberg News reports. bloomberg news
Deutsche Bank Blames Weak Euro for Drop in 2nd-Quarter Profit | The preliminary earnings report demonstrates the challenges facing Anshu Jain and Jrgen Fitschen, who took over in May as co-chief executives of Deutsche Bank. DealBook 
Goldman Official Tries Out a Bigger Role | Elizabeth Beshel Robinson, Goldman Sachs's treasurer, had a prominent role during a conference call this week, fueling speculation that she may be in line to succeed David A. Viniar as chief financial officer, The New York Post reports. new york post
Bankia Said to Plan to Spread Payments Over Time | Bloomberg News reports: "Spain's Bankia group wants to pay holders of 3 billion euros ($3.6 billion) of its preferred shares most of their money back, though not for years to come, a person with direct knowledge of the matter said." bloomberg news
PRIVATE EQUITY 
Ancestry.com Is Said to Be in Talks for a Buyout | The genealogy Web site is in discussions with TPG Capital and Providence Equity Partners and Permira, according to people with knowledge of the matter. DealBook 
Clayton Dubilier Sells Off Last of Its Sally Beauty Shares | Clayton Dubilier & Rice said on Tuesday that it was selling its final holdings in Sally Beauty Holdings, garnering some $1.9 billion in proceeds from its investment. DealBook 
Carlyle Hires Liguori as Media Adviser | The Carlyle Group says it has hired Peter Liguori, a former Discovery Communications chief operating officer, as an adviser to the firm's telecommunications and media group. DealBook 
Hong Kong Firm Raises $1 Billion for Energy Fund | The private equity firm Kerogen Capital, based in Hong Kong, plans to use its new energy fund to invest in regions that cater to Asia, Reuters reports. reuters
China Allows Insurers to Invest More in Private Equity | Insurers in China will be allowed to invest up to 10 percent of their assets in private equity, compared with 5 percent previously, Reuters reports. reuters
HEDGE FUNDS 
Third Point Increases Stake in Yahoo | According to a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Tuesday, Daniel S. Loeb's Third Point, the activist fund that pushed for changes at Yahoo, now owns more than 73 million shares of the company, or about 6 percent, Reuters reports. reuters
Greenlight Capital Exits Best Buy Investment | David Einhorn said in a letter to investors that his fund had taken a "loss" on Best Buy when "unexpected problems emerged," Reuters reports. The letter said the fund declined 3.2 percent in the second quarter. reuters
Hedge Fund Managers Back Same-Sex Marriage | A group of Republican-leaning hedge fund managers, including Paul Singer, Clifford S. Asness and Daniel S. Loeb, is supporting efforts to legalize same-sex marriage in four states, The Financial Times reports. financial times
Hedge Funds Square Off Over Tribune Bankruptcy | A judge approved a plan to give control of the Tribune Company to a group of creditors led by Oaktree Capital and other firms. But other creditors, like Aurelius Capital Management, have appealed the decision, FINalternatives reports. finalternatives
I.P.O./OFFERINGS 
Netflix Contends With Shrinking Subscriptions | Netflix reported a return to profitability in the second quarter, but investors were spooked by news that a decline in subscriptions for the company's DVD-by-mail business outpaced gains in streaming subscriptions, the Media Decoder blog reports. new york times media decoder
Knight Capital Expected to Support Nasdaq's Compensation Plan | The Knight Capital Group, which says it took a loss trading Facebook, is "likely to express support" for Nasdaq's plan to compensate brokers for losses related to Facebook's debut, The Wall Street Journal reports, citing an unidentified person familiar with the broker's position. wall street journal
Europe's Crisis Looms Over United States I.P.O.'s | The Financial Times writes: "Europe's woes have sent a widely watched measure of U.S. market volatility higher just as weak equity capital markets in New York look to rebound from the fallout from Facebook's much-criticized public debut in May." financial times
Malaysian Hospital Operator Rises on Debut | The stock of IHH Healthcare rose nearly 10 percent on Wednesday, after attracting $2.1 billion in the company's initial offering of shares, Reuters reports. reuters
VENTURE CAPITAL 
New Enterprise Associates Raises $2.6 Billion Fund | The venture capital firm New Enterprise Associates, which has backed Groupon and Diapers.com, has raised $2.6 billion for its latest fund. DealBook 
Square Expects New Financing and a Loftier Value | The mobile payments start-up Square, best known for its pint-size credit card reader, is close to raising about $200 million, which would give the company an implied valuation of $3.25 billion. DealBook 
Tenaya Capital Raises a $372 Million Fund | The latest fund is the venture capital firm's first since it spun out of Lehman Brothers in September 2008. wall street journal
Twitter Plans an Archiving Function | Dick Costolo, Twitter's chief executive, told The New York Times, "We're working on a tool to let users export all of their tweets." He added, "You'll be able to download a file of them." new york times bits
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
Technology Analyst Expected to Plead Guilty in Insider Case | John Kinnucan, founder of Broadband Research, based in Portland, Ore., is expected to plead guilty on Wednesday to sharing secret information about technology companies with money managers. DealBook 
JPMorgan Settles Credit Card Lawsuit | JPMorgan Chase has agreed to pay $100 million to settle a lawsuit filed by customers who said that the nation's largest bank raised minimum payments due on credit cards to generate more fees. DealBook 
Fed Expected to Favor New Stimulus if Economy Lags | The New York Times reports: "A growing number of Federal Reserve officials have concluded that the central bank needs to expand its stimulus campaign unless the nation's economy soon shows signs of improvement, including job growth." new york times
Soccer Case Highlights Differences Between U.S. and English Bankruptcy Law | A British judge found that a rule favoring the claims of a soccer team's players and its league did not violate English bankruptcy law, writes Stephen J. Lubben, DealBook's In Debt columnist. DealBook 
European Officials Approach Antitrust Settlement With Google | European regulators said recent concessions by Google could lead to a settlement, according to The Associated Press. associated press
Moody's Dims Outlook for Europe's Bailout Fund | A day after it reduced its outlook for the ratings of Germany, the Netherlands and Luxembourg, Moody's assigned a "negative" outlook for the euro zone's temporary rescue fund, The Associated Press reports. associated press
Europe's Medicine Weakens Greece | The New York Times writes: "Greece's lenders say they will not finance the country any further unless it meets its goals. But many experts say that the targets were never within reach and that pushing three increasingly weak Greek governments to comply has only profoundly damaged the economy." new york times
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); WORKPLACE MORALE (72%); INTEREST RATES (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%); BLOOMBERG LP (62%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (57%); DUKE ENERGY CORP (54%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); GS (NYSE) (58%); CSGN (SWX) (57%); CS (NYSE) (57%); DUK (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (62%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (62%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (62%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: MARISSA MAYER (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



946 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 904 words

HEADLINE: Weill Calls for Splitting Up Big Banks

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: They were words no one ever expected Sanford I. Weill to utter. "What we should probably do," said the man who helped usher in the age of the financial supermarket, "is go and split up investment banking from banking." 

 BODY:
In politics, it is called flip-flopping. In banking, it is called postcrisis regrets.
For years, Sanford I. Weill aggressively pushed a "bigger is better" philosophy in banking, turning Citigroup into a financial behemoth through a series of ever-larger deals.
Now, the empire builder wants to break up the banks.
 On Wednesday, Mr. Weill called for a wall between a bank's deposit-taking operations and its risky trading businesses. In other words, he would like to resurrect the regulation that he once fought.
"What we should probably do is go and split up investment banking from banking," Mr. Weill, the former chief executive of Citigroup, told CNBC. "Have banks do something that's not going to risk the taxpayer dollars, that's not going to be too big to fail."
Since the financial crisis, a number of elder statesmen have pushed to reinstate some form of the Glass-Steagall Act, the 1933 law that separated commercial banks from investment banks.
In 2009, John S. Reed, who with Mr. Weill forged the megamerger that created Citigroup, apologized for creating a lumbering giant that needed multibillion-dollar bailouts from the government. Philip Purcell, the former chief executive of Morgan Stanley and David H. Komansky, the onetime leader of Merrill Lynch, two other main figures in the fight to repeal Glass-Steagall, have echoed similar concerns about deregulation.
But the comments of Mr. Weill - arguably the most powerful banking voice behind the effort to dismantle Glass-Steagall - have particularly drawn the industry's attention.
During a Congressional hearing on Wednesday, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, said that Mr. Weill's remarks appeared to go further than the new rules aimed at curbing banks' risky activities. Representative Walter B. Jones Jr., Republican of North Carolina, said that one of the worst votes he made in his 18 years in Congress was in favor of bank deregulation.
In the 1990s, Mr. Weill ushered in the age of the financial supermarket, a model that brought trading, mergers advisory, commercial lending and other disparate banking services under one roof. A serial deal maker, Mr. Weill turned a small bank based in Baltimore into a colossal lender, investment bank and insurer. He capped it with the $70 billion merger between Travelers and Citicorp, which formed Citigroup.
He took pride in his strategy. For years, Mr. Weill had a plaque in his office that listed his accomplishments, including "The Shatterer of Glass-Steagall."
Glass-Steagall was born out of an earlier crisis, the Great Depression. Enacted in 1933, it was intended to prevent another financial catastrophe by limiting the size and power of the nation's banks. The new law prompted the breakup of J. P. Morgan & Company, which spun off its brokerage arm to create Morgan Stanley.
With the Depression-era fading from memory, the increasingly powerful banking industry started to chip away at the provisions.
Beginning in the 1960s, regulators started to interpret federal banking rules more loosely, permitting commercial lenders to move into riskier activities like municipal bond underwriting. During his CNBC appearance, Mr. Weill argued that the strictest limits of Glass-Steagall had already eroded by the mid-1980s.
A decade later, he sought to dismiss the last major prohibition for banks, insurance underwriting. The final Senate vote on the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which formally blessed the universal banking model, was 90 to 8 in favor. The House vote was also lopsided.
His efforts were a major milestone in banking deregulation, paving the way for a new wave of mergers. In 2000, J. P. Morgan united with Chase Manhattan Bank to form JPMorgan Chase. Bank of America embarked on an aggressive deal-making binge.
But critics argued that the deregulation effort would create financial Frankenstein's monster that could not be effectively run or regulated. They were proved right when the financial crisis brought many banking giants to their knees. After Lehman Brothers collapsed in 2008, Citigroup was forced to take more than $45 billion in bailout money from the government.
Soon after the crisis, some of Mr. Weill's contemporaries began to reverse their position. In 2010, Mr. Komansky told Bloomberg Television that he regretted helping to lead the charge to cut down Glass-Steagall. Mr. Reed, who briefly shared the top role at Citigroup with Mr. Weill, said that lawmakers were wrong to overturn the law.
Mr. Weill, however, largely kept silent during the debates over financial regulation. Even now, he has refused to say that the banking supermarket model was flawed.
"I think the earlier model was right for that time," he said on CNBC. "I don't think it's right anymore."
Not all of these banking elders have spoken out of concern for the safety of the global financial system. Both Mr. Weill and Mr. Purcell noted that cleaving apart big banks would improve their stock market values.
But their sentiments are not necessarily shared by their successors. Jamie Dimon, Mr. Weill's longtime protg who now runs JPMorgan Chase, turned aside questions about the bank's size after the latest earnings.
"There's huge strength in this company that units get from each other," Mr. Dimon said, who said that splitting up JPMorgan would affect "very short-term stuff."

        
Loss Stains JPMorgan's Chief, One of Banking's Top Risk Managers
        
Citigroup to Sell Last of Its Stake in Primerica

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MERGERS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%) Citigroup; Glass-Steagall; Sandy Weill; Weill, Sanford I; Glass-Steagall Act (1933); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Citigroup Inc; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Citigroup Inc

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); MS (NYSE) (58%) Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (95%); WALTER B JONES (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%) Weill, Sanford I

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



947 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from the reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Esquire: What one Olympic rower eats (and doesn't eat) when he's trying to whittle down his weight. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Mais non, a shortage of cooks in France? Though French unemployment is hovering at 10 percent, 61 percent of employers such as caterers and restaurateurs were unable to recruit the cooks they need, according to a survey released by the government employment agency. That's caused by the French educational system's disdain for vocational training. - Glenn Collins
Serious Eats: A five-bullet list summarizing the week in food policy: Helpful. Interesting. Short. -- Julia Moskin
The New York Times: A public hearing on Mayor Bloomberg's proposal to limit sales of supersized sugary drinks has everything but the public. Instead it brings out the professionals on both sides, including a lobbyist from Auntie Anne's who proclaims that "nothing compares to a golden-brown Auntie Anne pretzel and lemonade." -- Patrick Farrell
Elizabeth Minchilli in Rome: On the craft of making something indisputably delicious: fried zucchini blossoms stuffed with mozzarella. -- Jeff Gordinier 
Mother Jones: The overuse of antibiotics in livestock and poultry has been well documented, but what about vaccines, which are used to combat viruses? Tom Philpott suggests that the widespread vaccination of pigs in factory farms requires further study to determine whether it is doing more harm than good. -- Eric Asimov
The Wall Street Journal: A profile of 47-year-old chef Dominique Crenn at the 40-seat Atelier Crenn in San Francisco. She explains her concept of "poetic culinaria," and the recent 12-course, $160 tasting menu that was written as, well, a poem. That, and her foie gras bird's nest thing. - Glenn Collins 
Bon Apptit: "Fast and Fresh," reads the headline on the magazine's August issue, over a mouthwatering sandwich of heirloom tomatoes and feta. Too fast? Too fresh? Editors are asking readers whether they erred in choosing the sandwich, rather than a cherry-bourbon pie or roasted corn, as cover art. -- Patrick Farrell
Phoenix New Times: A New York steakhouse sprouts in Scottsdale. -- Jeff Gordinier 
The San Francisco Chronicle: "They have stepped form a curious and ambitious side note to something truly exciting.'' High praise for Greek white wines from Jon Bonn. -- Eric Asimov
Bon Apptit: Go get more ice: In an easy-to-follow video segment, Andrew Knowlton shows you how to make a whiskey smash. -- Jeff Gordinier 
: Death threats, sabotage, gun-toting goons: Just another day in the turf wars among New York's ice cream trucks. -- Patrick Farrell
BuzzFeed Shift: Here it is: a never-before-seen mashup of baking, hairstyling and celebrity culture. -- Julia Moskin
The Washington Post: Mike Huckabee jumps into the furor over Chick-fil-A's opposition to gay marriage, urging Americans to chow down in defense of the fast-food chain. This is the same Mike Huckabee who just a few years ago dropped 105 pounds and championed healthy eating. -- Patrick Farrell
Brooklyn Guy: The Brook reflects on the role of terroir in fine sherry, and offers notes on a wonderful recent tasting of sherries from the Marcharnudo Alto vineyard site. -- Eric Asimov
I'm Your Server Not Your Servant: On a blog that speaks up for service workers, readers ruminate over customers who play sadistic games with tips -- like plopping $20 on the table and threatening to take a dollar away every time something goes wrong. -- Patrick Farrell

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (88%); RESTAURANTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT SERVICES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); CATERING SERVICES (77%); ICE CREAM (74%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (71%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (71%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (71%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (70%); POULTRY (70%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (69%); POETRY (68%); FACTORY FARMS (66%); GARDENING (66%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (66%); ANTIBIOTICS (51%)

COMPANY: AUNTIE ANNE'S INC (70%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (56%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



948 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Foreign Policy

BYLINE: JADA F. SMITH


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at the latest happenings in Washington. 

 BODY:
Today's Times

        
Speaking at the Veterans of Foreign Wars convention, Mitt Romney accused the Obama administration of betraying the country by leaking national security information. Mr. Romney's remarks represented an aggressive new attack on a commander in chief who has enjoyed public support for the raid that killed Osama bin Laden. Though the speech included intense attacks on Mr. Obama's credentials, it also lacked new policy specifics, underscoring how much the Romney campaign has struggled to find sharp contrasts with the White House on foreign policy, Richard A. Oppel Jr. reports.
The Congressional Budget Office said Tuesday that the health care overhaul would probably lead to an increase in the number of uninsured Americans and a modest reduction in costs to the federal government, Robert Pear reports. The estimate establishes grist for election-year debates in campaigns for the White House and Congress.

        
A Republican group backed by Sheldon Adelson, the casino magnate, is starting a multi-million dollar advertising campaign in battleground states to win over Jewish voters who could potentially be persuaded to turn away from President Obama and support Mitt Romney, Jeff Zeleny reports. The effort represents an emerging Republican strategy of identifying voters who supported Mr. Obama four years ago but are now openly expressing disappointment.

        
Some of President Obama's most successful fund-raisers during his 2008 run are now ambassadors, and as federal employees, they are barred from engaging in political activities or helping him campaign, Mark Landler writes. It is one of the few handicaps of incumbency, and it could be a significant disadvantage in a year when Mitt Romney is expected to raise more money than the president.

        
A major typo was found in a deregulation bill that would mistakenly allow new rules to be issued only if the unemployment rate is 94 percent or higher, The Hill reports.

        
Representative Emanuel Cleaver II, Democrat of Missouri, is becoming known around the Capitol for the eccentric weekly letters he writes to fellow members of Congress, Politico reports. In one of them, he discussed the "Twilight" vampire series, saying: "They are disgusting. After all, everyone knows that real vampires and real werewolves don't date the same girl."

        
Former President George W. Bush and Laura Bush were spotted at the Romney campaign's Boston headquarters Tuesday, Politico reports.
Happenings in Washington

        
Dr. Jill Biden, the wife of the vice president, will attend the National Association of Social Workers annual conference to announce an initiative aimed at educating social workers on the challenges facing veterans and military families.

        
The Early Word: No Surprises
        
The Early Word: Persistent Woes
        
The Early Word: Ties That Bind
        
The Early Word: Clarity
        
The Weekend Word: Fighting Words

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAUCUSES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); FUNDRAISING (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (71%); FAMILY (70%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (57%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (56%); EMANUEL CLEAVER (55%); SHELDON G ADELSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



949 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1067 words

HEADLINE: Facing Congress, Geithner Grilled on Rate-Rigging

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Timothy F. Geithner was grilled on Wednesday about the growing interest rate rigging scandal, as lawmakers questioned why he failed to thwart the illegal activity during the financial crisis. 

 BODY:
Timothy F. Geithner was questioned sharply on Wednesday about the rate-rigging scandal that has consumed the banking industry, as lawmakers at a House hearing asked why he had failed to thwart wrongdoing during the financial crisis.
Republicans took aim at Mr. Geithner for, in their view, going easy on Wall Street despite knowing that some banks had been trying to manipulate a key interest rate. When he ran the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 2008, Mr. Geithner advocated broad reforms to the rate-setting process rather than curbing the bad behavior at specific banks.
Mr. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary, also acknowledged on Wednesday that he had never alerted federal prosecutors to the wrongdoing. The revelation further stoked the ire of Republicans, including some regular detractors of Mr. Geithner.
"It appears you treated it as almost a curiosity, or something akin to jaywalking, as opposed to highway robbery," said Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas.
The hearing before the House Financial Services Committee was the latest forum to scrutinize regulators' role in the rate manipulation scandal. Lawmakers have pressed the New York Fed and its British counterparts to explain why illegal actions went unchecked for years.
But Mr. Geithner escaped relatively unscathed from the more than two-hour hearing. Even as Republicans denounced Mr. Geithner for his actions as president of the New York Fed, many Democrats rushed to his defense. Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, declared that it was the banks, not regulators, that "grievously misbehaved."
Mr. Geithner, who on Wednesday was also asked to outline the broader state of Wall Street regulation, challenged his Republican critics. In testimony, Mr. Geithner said that he was "very concerned" about the interest rate problem and he had promptly notified other regulators about his worries.
British authorities who oversee the rate, he said, failed to heed his warnings.
"We took the initiative to bring those concerns to the attention of the broader U.S. regulatory community," Mr. Geithner said, referring to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission. "I believe we did the necessary and appropriate thing very early in the process."
The controversy centers on the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a measure of how much banks charge to lend to one another. Libor, lawmakers observed, is entwined in the financial system as a benchmark for trillions of dollars in mortgages and other loans.
A global investigation into more than a dozen big banks has now called into question the integrity of the important rate. Last month, Barclays struck a $450 million settlement with American and British authorities over accusations that it had undermined Libor to bolster its trading profits and project a strong image of its health, the first action to stem from the multiyear inquiry.
On Wednesday, the European Commission announced plans to make the manipulation of benchmark interest rates a criminal offense.
Barclays on Wednesday also disclosed the resignation of Alison Carnwath, head of the firm's compensation board committee, in the latest shake-up at the beleaguered bank. She is leaving for undisclosed personal reasons. The firm's chairman, Marcus Agius, and chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., have agreed to step down amid the inquiries into Libor.
The New York Fed learned in April 2008 that Barclays had been artificially depressing its rates. "We know that we're not posting, um, an honest" rate, a Barclays employee told a New York Fed official.
Mr. Geithner said he was not then aware of "that specific conversation."
But that same day, New York Fed officials wrote in a weekly internal memo that the problem was widespread. "Our contacts at Libor contributing banks have indicated a tendency to underreport actual borrowing costs," New York Fed officials wrote. At the time, high borrowing costs were a sign of poor health.
Even after discovering that banks were manipulating Libor, the New York Fed pursued a somewhat passive approach. When Mr. Geithner briefed other American regulators on Libor in May 2008, he did not disclose the specific wrongdoing at Barclays.
Republicans also seized on Mr. Geithner's acknowledgment that he had not notified the Justice Department about the illegal behavior. The Justice Department, he explained, did not belong to the group of regulators that were focused on Libor.
In response to the criticism, Mr. Geithner pointed to his past efforts to reform Libor. He noted the New York Fed had repeatedly pressed for an overhaul of the rate-setting process. In a June 2008 e-mail to the Bank of England, the country's central bank, Mr. Geithner recommended that British officials "eliminate incentive to misreport" Libor.
The New York Fed then advocated fixes more forcefully than its British counterparts, records show. British authorities later adopted only some of Mr. Geithner's recommendations.
"We gave them very specific detailed changes," Mr. Geithner said, adding that "if more of those would have been adopted sooner, you would have limited the risk."
But Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas, questioned why the New York Fed had focused on policy solutions rather than the overt legal violations. "If they were having structural problems, then I think your e-mail was appropriate," said Mr. Neugebauer, who is leading an investigation into how the New York Fed had handled the Libor scandal. "But what was being disclosed here was fraud."
Ultimately, Mr. Geithner said, responsibility rests with the British regulators. "We felt, and I still believe this, it was really going to be on them to fix this."
Democrats echoed his argument. "I for one am not part of the 'blame America first' crowd," said Brad Sherman, Democrat of California.
Other Democratic lawmakers praised Mr. Geithner for championing reforms to Libor.
"There's been an effort to blame you for all of this," said Mr. Frank, the ranking Democrat on the committee. But that is a surprising stance for Republicans, he said, given their general aversion to regulatory authority.
Or, as Michael E. Capuano, Democrat from Massachusetts, asked Mr. Geithner about the Republican complaints, aren't they "hypocritical?"
Mr. Geithner replied, "I would leave that to others to say."

        
Facing Congress, Geithner Grilled on Rate Rigging
        
Europe Aims to Make Rate Manipulation a Criminal Offense

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); SCANDALS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (74%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (62%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (60%) Barclays; House Financial Services Committee; Libor; Timothy F. Geithner; Geithner, Timothy F; Banking and Financial Institutions; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

ORGANIZATION: House Financial Services Committee

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (95%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); BARNEY FRANK (57%) Geithner, Timothy F

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



950 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 786 words

HEADLINE: Anything Barack Can Do, Mitt Can Do Tougher

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: When it comes to foreign policy, there's not much to the right of Barack Obama except bellicose rhetoric, which helps explain Mitt Romney's speech at the VFW convention yesterday. 

 BODY:
For decades, Republicans ran to the right of Democrats on foreign policy and national security issues. That brought us the Star Wars program and adventurism in Latin America and "we don't want the smoking gun to be a mushroom cloud" and allowed the G.O.P. to fashion itself as the party of military power.
It was one thing to run to the right of Jimmy Carter, who will probably be remembered as one of the weakest presidents on foreign and military matters, or even Bill Clinton, who hesitated about intervening in the Balkans, and bungled Somalia and Rwanda.
It is a lot harder to run to the right of President Obama. Mr. Obama has continued the war in Afghanistan, organized air support for the Libyan rebels, supported the uprising in Egypt, fought for sanctions against Iran and Syria, conducted drone strikes in sovereign nations such as Yemen and Pakistan, and sent Navy Seals into Pakistan to kill Osama bin Laden.

There's not much to the right of that except bellicose rhetoric and name calling, which helps explain Mitt Romney's speech at the VFW convention on Tuesday. Mr. Romney had some pretty nasty things to say about Mr. Obama. "If you do not want America to be the strongest nation on earth, I am not your president," he said. "You have that president today."
He said Mr. Obama was demanding "wholesale reduction in the nation's military capacity at just the wrong time, with "massive" cuts that have no "serious military rationale."
That's crazy! How reckless! Except that's a lie. Yes, the Pentagon is facing across-the-board cuts opposed by the Secretary of Defense. But the cuts are not Mr. Obama's idea. They're a result of the sequester, which in turn is a consequence of last summer's Republican-led debt ceiling fight.
Mr. Romney said Mr. Obama runs a loose ship that allows leaks of national security secrets and accused him of "stonewalling" efforts to find the leakers. He said that if he is elected president, he would run a White House that would never "reveal classified material for political gain."
Another tough declaration. But every administration has leaks. President George W. Bush was furious at our newspaper's disclosures of his warrantless wiretapping program and I don't recall Mr. Romney demanding that Mr. Bush appoint a special prosecutor. Mr. Obama is actually more aggressive about pursuing leakers than any president I can remember.
Mr. Romney listed global hotspots where he suggested that Mr. Obama had been weak or had somehow betrayed American values and American allies - Afghanistan, Iran, Syria, Egypt, Eastern Europe, China and others. In each case he said none of the problems in those areas would exist if he were president.
Iran would not be developing a nuclear weapon or extending its influence into other parts of the Middle East. China would not be out-muscling the United States on the economy, would stop being a Communist state that imposes a one-child policy and would no longer tolerate patent and copyright infringements. Egypt would not be struggling so hard to build a democracy.
In none of these cases did Mr. Romney offer even a glimmer of what he would actually do. And in virtually every case Mr. Obama has been assertive and aggressive. It's hard to see how Mr. Romney would do more - would he invade Iran to destroy its nuclear program, for instance? I certainly hope not. It would be a military disaster and a massive threat to American national security.
Mr. Romney said he would withdraw American forces from Afghanistan very carefully, aiming to "complete a successfully transition to Afghan security forces by the end of 2014" - with the caveat that he would constantly consult with ground commanders to make sure the process was going well. That is precisely Mr. Obama's policy.
Mr. Romney saved some of his nastiest criticism for Mr. Obama's Israel policy. In this particular case, he does have room to run to the right of the president, since Mr. Obama has not gotten along well with Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu. I guess-although Mr. Romney did not say-that Mr. Romney would "improve" on the president's job performance by dropping American resistance to expanded Israeli settlements in the occupied West Bank. That's definitely a difference, a dangerous one.
The net result of this bipartisan move to the right on foreign and national security policy is that Americans have been deprived of a real debate. Democrats and Republicans used to actually have opposing views on these issues. Now they just goad each other to see who can be the most pugnacious.

        
Mitt Romney's Hamptons Weekend
        
Another Dismal Jobs Report, Another Misguided Attack from the Right
        
Painting Romney With the Bush Brush
        
We Don't Need No Teachers!
        
President Obama's Kill List

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); NAVIES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DEBT CEILING (69%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (63%); WIRETAPPING (60%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (54%) Barack Obama; drones; Mitt Romney; Pentagon; sequester; Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; United States International Relations

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (94%); MITT ROMNEY (91%); BILL CLINTON (79%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (52%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); SYRIA (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EGYPT (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%); RWANDA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



951 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 644 words

HEADLINE: With Romney Overseas, Small-Business Spat Carries On

BYLINE: TRIP GABRIEL


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney may be in London, but his backers keep pressing the case back home that President Obama is antibusiness. 

 BODY:
And on Day 13 of the "you didn't build that" spat, Mitt Romney's campaign planned 24 events in a dozen states on Wednesday to keep the heat on President Obama over his remarks about who deserves credit for business success.
Even as Mr. Romney landed in London to attend the Olympics and begin a foreign trip, his campaign showed no signs of dropping an issue that it believes sheds damaging light on Mr. Obama's attitudes toward free enterprise and his embrace of government's role in the economy.
At the same time, the Obama campaign responded directly, releasing an ad in which the president says, "Those ads taking my words about small business out of context - they're flat-out wrong."
In the nearly two weeks since Mr. Obama's much-parsed remarks about infrastructure and small business, the Romney campaign has focused a series of attacks on what it calls the president's antibusiness attitudes, staging campaign stops where Mr. Romney was flanked by entrepreneurs testifying that their success was due to the sweat of their own brows. 
The stagecraft is powerful. It has continued despite news reports that some of the business owners got government help along the way -- and despite fact-checker columns pointing out how the Romney campaign has twisted the president's words.
A Romney ad last week featured Jack Gilchrist, the owner of Gilchrist Metal Fabricating in Hudson, N.H., who asked dubiously, "My hands didn't build this company?'' He went on to accuse the president of "demonizing" entrepreneurs. On Monday, the New Hampshire Union Leader reportedthat Gilchrist Metal received a Small Business Administration loan and benefited from a state tax-exempt bond to open a plant.
The owner of a Boston bus repair shop stood beside Mr. Romney last week and said, "We don't need any more of government's help.'' The Boston Globe reported that in its first year, the business received a $560,000 federal contract to overhaul 10 buses.
Speaking on July 13 at a firehouse in Virginia, Mr. Obama made a case that high-income individuals should pay more in taxes to support government services that benefit all. "If you were successful, somebody along the line gave you some help,'' the president said, adding that government investment in roads, education - even the Internet - helps cultivate the business success of individuals.
The Romney campaign believes it has the grist for drawing a large philosophical difference with Mr. Obama over free enterprise. It announced rallies for Wednesday with small-business owners in 12 swing states: Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, Virginia, Ohio, Iowa, Florida, Missouri, North Carolina, Michigan, New Hampshire, New Mexico, and Nevada.
Whatever the nuances of Mr. Obama's original message, his line - "If you've got a business -- you didn't build that; somebody else made that happen'' - has become a fulcrum for Mr. Romney to attack him as out of touch about how business works and how jobs are created.
The Romney campaign seems poised to repeat the theme deep into the election season.
And Mr. Obama seems to recognize the danger, as evidenced by his new ad, in which he looks directly into the camera and says, "Of course Americans build their own businesses.''
"Every day, hard-working people sacrifice to meet a payroll, create jobs and make our economy run," the president adds. "And what I said was that we need to stand behind them, as America always has, by investing in education and training, roads and bridges, research and technology."
Brad Woodhouse, the communications director for the Democratic National Committee, called the Romney charges about the president's small-business speech "trumped-up, out-of-context, fact-checked-to-death'' misrepresentations, according to a memo obtained by BuzzFeed. He promised that rebuttal events would be staged shortly around the country.
Expect a Day 14 and many more on this issue.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (91%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (88%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FABRICATED METAL PRODUCT MFG (69%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (68%); TAX LAW (62%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (62%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (50%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Woodhouse, Brad; Entrepreneurship; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Small Business; States (US); Boston Globe; BuzzFeed Inc; Democratic National Committee; New Hampshire Union Leader; Small Business Administration; Boston (Mass); London (England); Nevada; United States; Virginia; Ad Watch; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL COMMITTEE (84%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%) Boston Globe; BuzzFeed Inc; Democratic National Committee; New Hampshire Union Leader; Small Business Administration

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack; Romney, Mitt; Woodhouse, Brad

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (92%) Boston (Mass); London (England); Nevada; United States; Virginia

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



952 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: 'Yes, I Did Build That,' Says a Businessman - but It Turns Out He Got Some Help

BYLINE: ROBB MANDELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The star of a Romney commercial attacking President Obama actually benefited from several government programs. 

 BODY:
President Obama has taken a lot of heat from the Romney campaign and its conservative allies for his "If you've got a business - you didn't build that" comment two weeks ago in Roanoke, Va. The presumptive Republican nominee cut a commercial in which a New Hampshire small-business owner took exception to the president's words. "My father's hands didn't build this company? My hands didn't build this company?" Jack Gilchrist, owner of Gilchrist Metal Fabricating Company, asks resentfully. "Through hard work and a little bit of luck, we built this business. Why are you demonizing us for it?"
But now comes reporting from the field that makes Mr. Gilchrist's indignation about Mr. Obama's remarks seem a bit hypocritical.
Mr. Obama was not suggesting that people like the Gilchrists did not create their businesses, only that they had some help in the effort. Here is exactly what he said:
If you were successful, somebody along the line gave you some help. There was a great teacher somewhere in your life. Somebody helped to create this unbelievable American system that we have that allowed you to thrive. Somebody invested in roads and bridges. If you've got a business - you didn't build that. Somebody else made that happen. The Internet didn't get invented on its own. Government research created the Internet so that all the companies could make money off the Internet.
The point is, is that when we succeed, we succeed because of our individual initiative, but also because we do things together.
You can watch the entire speech here or read it here and judge for yourself.
Based on the Romney commercial, it might sound as if Mr. Gilchrist is one of those Ayn Rand-styled individualists who don't actually need all of the things that many others rely on government for. Except that it turns out he's not. On Monday, The New Hampshire Union-Leader reported that Mr. Gilchrist had received a lot of government help over the years: $800,000 in tax-exempt bonds from the state of New Hampshire, a nearly $500,000 loan guaranteed by the Small Business Administration, federally financed trade adjustment assistance and even nearly $90,000 in military contracts since 2008.
The federally financed tax-exempt bonds most likely provided Mr. Gilchrist's company with a lower interest rate than a loan, and the S.B.A., as Agenda readers know, guarantees loans that banks wouldn't otherwise make.
Mr. Gilchrist told a Union-Leader reporter, John DiStaso, that he didn't believe he'd "compromised anything or misled anybody," adding:
"I'm not going to turn a blind eye because the money came from the government. As far as I'm concerned, I'm getting some of my tax money back.
"I'm not stupid, I'm not going to say 'no.' Shame on me if I didn't use what's available. As a matter of fact, right now, I'm driving on a road."
The attacks appear to have put the president on the defensive. On Tuesday, the Obama campaign released its own 30-second spot in which the president speaks directly to the camera, insisting that "of course Americans build their own business." It was an unusual move, "as surprising as it is significant," wrote the political commentator Mark Halperin. "A campaign never wants to let the opposition dictate what it advertises on."

        
In Proposed Small-Business Rules, Big Seems to Be the New Small
        
The Three Biggest Myths About the S.B.A.
        
Partisan Divide in D.C.? Not Over the S.B.A.
        
S.B.A. Administrator Responds
        
Why the S.B.A.'s Partnership With I.B.M. Isn't Enough

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (75%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (65%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (50%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) 2012 election; Gilchrist Metal Fabricating Company; Jack Gilchrist; Obama; Romney; Small Business Administration; Political Advertising; Presidential Election of 2012; Small Business; New Hampshire; The Agenda

ORGANIZATION: SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (84%) Small Business Administration

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROANOKE, VA, USA (73%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) New Hampshire

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2012



953 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: July 25, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: July 24: The Incredibly Steady Presidential Race

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: We've now been running our presidential forecast model for almost two months, and each day, we have shown Barack Obama as a modest favorite to win re-election. At no point has projected margin of victory in the popular vote been smaller than 1.7 percentage points. 

 BODY:
We've now been running our presidential forecast model for almost two months, but very little has changed in our analysis of the race. Each day, we have shown Barack Obama as a modest favorite to win re-election. At no point has projected margin of victory in the popular vote been smaller than 1.7 percentage points, or larger than 2.7 percentage points; it was 2.3 percentage points as of Tuesday evening's forecast.
The "now-cast" - our estimate of what would happen if the election were held today, rather than on Nov. 6 - has been only slightly more volatile. Mr. Obama has led in each now-cast as well, but by margins ranging from 0.9 points (on June 21) to 2.9 points (on July 21). As of Tuesday, the now-cast gave Mr. Obama a 2.6 point lead.
As has often been the case, the two new data points that had the most influence on Tuesday's forecast contained good and bad news for each candidate. The good news from Mr. Obama's point of view was a new NBC News / Wall Street Journal poll gave him a 6-point lead in the national horse race. It's a good number for Mr. Obama - NBC News / Wall Street Journal is a strong pollster that tends to play it straight up the middle.
Still, it's just one data point from among many, and there just isn't any evidence that the race is breaking toward either candidate. (In contrast to the NBC data, for instance, the weekly tracking poll conducted by Public Policy Polling for Daily Kos showed Mr. Romney pulling into a tie with Mr. Obama for the first time in the survey.) These polls, and almost all others within the past few weeks, are consistent with an essentially unchanged race in which there is some statistical variation from survey to survey, and some differences introduced by the different methodologies that pollsters apply - but perhaps not a whole lot more going on beyond that.
Meanwhile, the stock market fell sharply for the third consecutive trading session on Tuesday. Investors are concerned about the credit situation in Europe. But frankly - although I don't mean to give stock market advice - the market has had a relatively optimistic reaction to decidedly mediocre data from the American economic ticker in recent weeks. With the recent downturn, it is falling closer into line with the six other variables that make up our economic index. 
We're not yet at the point where the economic index sees Mr. Obama as an underdog for re-election - it should be remembered that incumbent presidents tend to get quite a lot of credit from voters - but it does see an extremely close race and is exerting some slight downward pressure on his forecast. That is why Mr. Obama's margin over Mr. Romney in the Nov. 6 forecast - which accounts for economic factors along with polls - is slightly lower than his now-cast, which is based on the polls alone. 
Mr. Obama's chances of winning the Electoral College on Nov. 6 were 65.9 percent as of Tuesday's forecast, down slightly from 66.9 percent on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (93%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HORSES (73%); NEWS BRIEFS (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%) projection update

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012



954 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Rise in Weather Extremes Threatens Infrastructure

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD and JOHN SCHWARTZ; Matthew L. Wald reported from Washington, and John Schwartz from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- From highways in Texas to nuclear power plants in Illinois, the concrete, steel and sophisticated engineering that undergird the nation's infrastructure are being taxed to worrisome degrees by heat, drought and vicious storms.
On a single day this month here, a US Airways regional jet became stuck in asphalt that had softened in 100-degree temperatures, and a subway train derailed after the heat stretched the track so far that it kinked -- inserting a sharp angle into a stretch that was supposed to be straight. In East Texas, heat and drought have had a startling effect on the clay-rich soils under highways, which ''just shrink like crazy,'' leading to ''horrendous cracking,'' said Tom Scullion, senior research engineer with the Texas Transportation Institute at Texas A&M University. In Northeastern and Midwestern states, he said, unusually high heat is causing highway sections to expand beyond their design limits, press against each other and ''pop up,'' creating jarring and even hazardous speed bumps. 
Excessive warmth and dryness are threatening other parts of the grid as well. In the Chicago area, a twin-unit nuclear plant had to get special permission to keep operating this month because the pond it uses for cooling water rose to 102 degrees; its license to operate allows it to go only to 100. According to the Midwest Independent System Operator, the grid operator for the region, a different power plant had had to shut because the body of water from which it draws its cooling water had dropped so low that the intake pipe became high and dry; another had to cut back generation because cooling water was too warm.
The frequency of extreme weather is up over the past few years, and people who deal with infrastructure expect that to continue. Leading climate models suggest that weather-sensitive parts of the infrastructure will be seeing many more extreme episodes, along with shifts in weather patterns and rising maximum (and minimum) temperatures.
''We've got the 'storm of the century' every year now,'' said Bill Gausman, a senior vice president and a 38-year veteran at the Potomac Electric Power Company, which took eight days to recover from the June 29 ''derecho'' storm that raced from the Midwest to the Eastern Seaboard and knocked out power for 4.3 million people in 10 states and the District of Columbia.
In general, nobody in charge of anything made of steel and concrete can plan based on past trends, said Vicki Arroyo, who heads the Georgetown Climate Center at Georgetown University Law Center in Washington, a clearinghouse on climate-change adaptation strategies.
Highways, Mr. Scullion noted, are designed for the local climate, taking into account things like temperature and rainfall. ''When you get outside of those things, man, all bets are off.'' As weather patterns shift, he said, ''we could have some very dramatic failures of highway systems.''
Adaptation efforts are taking place nationwide. Some are as huge as the multibillion-dollar effort to increase the height of levees and flood walls in New Orleans because of projections of rising sea levels and stronger storms to come; others as mundane as resizing drainage culverts in Vermont, where Hurricane Irene damaged about 2,000 culverts. ''They just got blown out,'' said Sue Minter, the Irene recovery officer for the state.
In Washington, the subway system, which opened in 1976, has revised its operating procedures. Authorities will now watch the rail temperature and order trains to slow down if it gets too hot. When railroads install tracks in cold weather, they heat the metal to a ''neutral'' temperature so it reaches a moderate length, and will withstand the shrinkage and growth typical for that climate. But if the heat historically seen in the South becomes normal farther north, the rails will be too long for that weather, and will have an increased tendency to kink. So railroad officials say they will begin to undertake much more frequent inspection.
Some utilities are re-examining long-held views on the economics of protecting against the weather. Pepco, the utility serving the area around Washington, has repeatedly studied the idea of burying more power lines, and the company and its regulators have always decided that the cost outweighed the benefit. But the company has had five storms in the last two and a half years for which recovery took at least five days, and after the derecho last month, the consensus has changed. Both the District of Columbia and Montgomery County, Md., have held hearings to discuss the option -- though in the District alone, the cost would be $1.1 billion to $5.8 billion, depending on how many of the power lines were put underground.
Even without storms, heat waves are changing the pattern of electricity use, raising peak demand higher than ever. That implies the need for new investment in generating stations, transmission lines and local distribution lines that will be used at full capacity for only a few hundred hours a year. ''We build the system for the 10 percent of the time we need it,'' said Mark Gabriel, a senior vice president of Black & Veatch, an engineering firm. And that 10 percent is ''getting more extreme.''
Even as the effects of weather extremes become more evident, precisely how to react is still largely an open question, said David Behar, the climate program director for the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission. ''We're living in an era of assessment, not yet in an area of adaptation,'' he said.
He says that violent storms and forest fires can be expected to affect water quality and water use: runoff from major storms and falling ash could temporarily shut down reservoirs. Deciding how to address such issues is the work of groups like the Water Utility Climate Alliance, of which he is a member. ''In some ways, the science is still catching up with the need of water managers for high-quality projection,'' he said.
Some needs are already known. San Francisco will spend as much as $40 million to modify discharge pipes for treated wastewater to prevent bay water from flowing back into the system.
Even when state and local officials know what they want to do, they say they do not always get the cooperation they would like from the federal government. Many agencies have officially expressed a commitment to plan for climate change, but sometimes the results on the ground can be frustrating, said Ms. Minter of Vermont. For instance, she said, Vermont officials want to replace the old culverts with bigger ones. ''We think it's an opportunity to build back in a more robust way,'' she said. But the Federal Emergency Management Agency wants to reuse the old culverts that washed out, or replace them with similar ones, she said.
Ms. Arroyo of Georgetown said the federal government must do more. ''They are not acknowledging that the future will look different from the past,'' she said, ''and so we keep putting people and infrastructure in harm's way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Emergency repairs on a highway that buckled in triple-digit temperatures last month near Cary, N.C. Below, restoring power in Bethesda, Md., after a wave of powerful storms on June 29. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TRAVIS LONG/THE NEWS & OBSERVER, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); DROUGHT (89%); WEATHER (89%); INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (77%); TRENDS (74%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); MODELING & SIMULATION (68%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: PEPCO HOLDINGS INC (63%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (56%); TRANSPORTATION INSTITUTE (56%)

TICKER: POM (NYSE) (63%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (63%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (63%); SIC4925 MIXED, MANUFACTURED, OR LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS PRODUCTION AND/OR DISTRIBUTION (63%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTHEAST USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



955 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Decline in June Home Sales Reinforces Uneven Recovery

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Sales of new homes recorded the biggest drop in more than a year in June, and prices resumed their downward trend, dealing a setback for the budding housing market recovery. 
Single-family home sales tumbled 8.4 percent to a seasonally adjusted 350,000-unit annual rate, the lowest rate in five months, the Commerce Department said on Wednesday.
The percent decline was the largest since February 2011. Much of the drop in sales last month reflected a 60 percent plunge in the Northeast, a region that had enjoyed hefty gains since December.
''Housing will continue to recover gradually throughout the year, but fundamentals are not supportive of a fully fledged housing market recovery,'' said Yelena Shulyatyeva, an economist at BNP Paribas in New York.
The drop in new-home sales last month came on the heels of a decline in home resales during the same period.
Housing had appeared to be bucking weakness in the broader economy, which has experienced a sharp slowdown in job growth and a cooling in manufacturing against the backdrop of fears of tighter fiscal policy in Washington in early 2013 and a lingering debt crisis in Europe.
While sales of both new and previously owned homes fell last month, other parts of the housing markets exhibited strength.
Home construction in June hit its highest level since October 2008 and confidence among home builders this month was the highest it has been in more than five years, reports showed last week. This offers cautious optimism the pullback in sales will be temporary.
''It is hard to believe that the market is turning downward when the home builders' confidence index jumped in July to its highest level in over five years,'' said Joel Naroff, chief economist at Naroff Economic Advisors. ''Either developers are clueless or the data have yet to catch up with reality. I am on the side of the latter.''
May's sales pace was revised to show 13,000 more units sold than previously reported. New-home sales were up 15.1 percent, compared with June last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOUSING MARKET (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); NEW HOME SALES (91%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); TRENDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); DEBT CRISIS (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (66%); EURO CRISIS (51%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (57%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (75%) EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



956 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1017 words

HEADLINE: Eye on Election, Senate Passes Tax Cut Measure

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Senate narrowly approved legislation on Wednesday to extend Bush-era tax cuts for the middle class but to let them lapse for more affluent households, in a surprise vote intended more to give both parties election-year cover than to produce a new tax law.
The Senate's action -- prompted by high-level maneuvering -- was not expected to result in a Congressional agreement on taxes anytime soon. But the frantic give-and-take over tax cuts set to expire on Jan. 1 illustrated how eager both sides were to provide a way for senators to weigh in on the tax fight. 
''This is not a serious piece of legislation because it is not going anywhere,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, who opened the door to the showdown by dropping a filibuster threat.
President Obama countered, ''It's time for House Republicans to drop their demand for another $1 trillion giveaway to the wealthiest Americans and give our families and small businesses the financial security and certainty that they need.''
In the first of two votes, the Senate, by 54 to 45, defeated a Republican plan that would have extended all the Bush-era tax cuts for one year. The Senate then, on a vote of 51 to 48, approved a Democratic version that would allow tax rates to rise on incomes, capital gains and dividends for earnings of more than $250,000.
Both parties insisted that they had gotten the upper hand in the showdown. Senate Democrats can say they have done their part to steer clear of the ''fiscal cliff'' in 2013, when more than $600 billion in tax increases and automatic spending cuts are scheduled to go into effect. By insisting that richer households pay more, Democrats say, they would spread the pain necessary to get the budget deficit under control.
''Those who have done very, very well, even in this economy, have a responsibility to help pay off our national debt,'' said Senator Debbie Stabenow, Democrat of Michigan, who is running for re-election.
Republicans say they gave their members the vote they wanted -- to keep taxes from rising in a slow economy -- while forcing vulnerable Democrats like Senators Claire McCaskill of Missouri and Jon Tester of Montana to cast votes that could be turned against them and portrayed as tax increases in their re-election campaigns.
To make certain that the Democrats could prevail, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. presided over the Senate to provide a tiebreaking vote if one was needed.
A resolution of the tax stalemate will probably have to wait for the November elections. The House will vote next week on legislation to extend all the Bush-era tax cuts, and Republican leaders have made it clear that they will not accept tax increases that they say will hurt small businesses that pay ordinary income tax rates. Under the Constitution, tax measures are supposed to originate in the House, an issue that can be finessed, but only with the cooperation of House leaders.
To a large degree, the tax debate is about leverage in a lame-duck session of Congress, when the victors in November will try to extract concessions in final negotiations over the tax code.
Under the bill passed by the Senate, income tax rates for couples' earnings of more than $250,000 would rise to 36 percent from 33 percent. Tax rates on income over about $390,000 would rise to 39.6 percent from 35 percent. The rate on most dividends and capital gains would rise to 20 percent from 15 percent for income over $250,000.
Much of the fight on Wednesday centered on the estate tax, which the Senate legislation does not address. If nothing is done, the current estate tax -- a 35 percent rate on inheritances worth more than $5 million, or $10 million per couple -- would snap back to the rates under President Bill Clinton, 55 percent over $1 million, or $2 million per couple.
Democrats in rural states said they would move to blunt that increase before the end of the year. Ms. McCaskill introduced her own bill on Wednesday to keep the current estate tax rate and exemption for one more year. Mr. Tester quickly co-sponsored it.
''We've obviously got to address that,'' said Senator Kay Hagan, Democrat of North Carolina, who is up for re-election in 2014.
But Republicans painted the vote on Wednesday as approval for what Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, called ''just a punitive death-tax proposal'' on inherited estates.
The Republican bill would increase the deficit by $408 billion over five years, but that includes $102 billion to stave off an expansion of the alternative minimum tax in 2014, something Democrats say they would do as well. The bill passed by the Senate would increase the deficit by $251 billion, but that number would rise if Democrats blunted the return of the 1990s estate tax.
The floor fight was initially to be simply a procedural vote on whether to move ahead to a debate on the Democratic tax plan, and it was expected to fall to a Republican filibuster. That situation worried leaders in both parties. Democrats said they needed a final vote to say the Senate was the first body in Congress to pass an extension of tax cuts for the middle class. A filibuster would have denied them that.
But Republicans would have had only one chance to vote on those tax cuts, and ultimately, Democrats said, Republicans could not risk voting against a tax cut for a vast majority of Americans. Democrats who oppose Mr. Obama's tax plan could have also voted yes on a procedural vote while still saying they were not falling in line with the plan itself.
By agreeing to simple majority votes, Republican leaders took away that cloak from vulnerable Democrats, forcing them to take a stand on the president's plan, and they secured a chance to vote yes on what they called the Tax Hike Prevention Act.
Polling suggests strong support for raising taxes on the rich, but both parties showed strains. Senator Scott P. Brown, Republican of Massachusetts, who is in a tough re-election fight, voted against the Republican tax plan, as did Senator Susan Collins, Republican of Maine. Senator Mark Pryor, Democrat of Arkansas, voted yes.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Harry Reid after the Senate passed a Democratic measure to extend tax cuts for the middle class but to let them lapse for wealthier households. The bill is unlikely to become law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER W. STEVENSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); PUBLIC DEBT (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); HARRY REID (58%); DEBBIE STABENOW (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JON TESTER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



957 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Deal Maker Now Doubts Megabanks

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED

 BODY:
In politics, it is called flip-flopping. In banking, it is called postcrisis regrets.
For years, Sanford I. Weill aggressively pushed a ''bigger is better'' philosophy in banking, turning Citigroup into a financial behemoth through a series of ever-larger deals.
Now, the empire builder wants to break up the banks. 
On Wednesday, Mr. Weill called for a wall between a bank's deposit-taking operations and its risky trading businesses. In other words, he would like to resurrect the regulation that he once fought.
''What we should probably do is go and split up investment banking from banking,'' Mr. Weill, the former chief executive of Citigroup, told CNBC. ''Have banks do something that's not going to risk the taxpayer dollars, that's not going to be too big to fail.''
Since the financial crisis, a number of elder statesmen have pushed to reinstate some form of the Glass-Steagall Act, the 1933 law that separated commercial banks from investment banks.
In 2009, John S. Reed, who with Mr. Weill forged the megamerger that created Citigroup, apologized for creating a lumbering giant that needed multibillion-dollar bailouts from the government. Philip Purcell, the former chief executive of Morgan Stanley and David H. Komansky, the onetime leader of Merrill Lynch, two other main figures in the fight to repeal Glass-Steagall, have echoed similar concerns about deregulation.
But the comments of Mr. Weill - arguably the most powerful banking voice behind the effort to dismantle Glass-Steagall - have particularly drawn the industry's attention.
During a Congressional hearing on Wednesday, Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, Democrat of New York, said that Mr. Weill's remarks appeared to go further than the new rules aimed at curbing banks' risky activities. Representative Walter B. Jones Jr., Republican of North Carolina, said that one of the worst votes he made in his 18 years in Congress was in favor of bank deregulation.
In the 1990s, Mr. Weill ushered in the age of the financial supermarket, a model that brought trading, mergers advisory, commercial lending and other disparate banking services under one roof. A serial deal maker, Mr. Weill turned a small bank based in Baltimore into a colossal lender, investment bank and insurer. He capped it with the $70 billion merger between Travelers and Citicorp, which formed Citigroup.
He took pride in his strategy. For years, Mr. Weill had a plaque in his office that listed his accomplishments, including ''The Shatterer of Glass-Steagall.''
Glass-Steagall was born out of an earlier crisis, the Great Depression. Enacted in 1933, it was intended to prevent another financial catastrophe by limiting the size and power of the nation's banks. The new law prompted the breakup of J. P. Morgan & Company, which spun off its brokerage arm to create Morgan Stanley.
With the Depression-era fading from memory, the increasingly powerful banking industry started to chip away at the provisions.
Beginning in the 1960s, regulators started to interpret federal banking rules more loosely, permitting commercial lenders to move into riskier activities like municipal bond underwriting. During his CNBC appearance, Mr. Weill argued that the strictest limits of Glass-Steagall had already eroded by the mid-1980s.
A decade later, he sought to dismiss the last major prohibition for banks, insurance underwriting. The final Senate vote on the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999, which formally blessed the universal banking model, was 90 to 8 in favor. The House vote was also lopsided.
His efforts were a major milestone in banking deregulation, paving the way for a new wave of mergers. In 2000, J. P. Morgan united with Chase Manhattan Bank to form JPMorgan Chase. Bank of America embarked on an aggressive deal-making binge.
But critics argued that the deregulation effort would create financial Frankenstein's monster that could not be effectively run or regulated. They were proved right when the financial crisis brought many banking giants to their knees. After Lehman Brothers collapsed in 2008, Citigroup was forced to take more than $45 billion in bailout money from the government.
Soon after the crisis, some of Mr. Weill's contemporaries began to reverse their position. In 2010, Mr. Komansky told Bloomberg Television that he regretted helping to lead the charge to cut down Glass-Steagall. Mr. Reed, who briefly shared the top role at Citigroup with Mr. Weill, said that lawmakers were wrong to overturn the law.
Mr. Weill, however, largely kept silent during the debates over financial regulation. Even now, he has refused to say that the banking supermarket model was flawed.
''I think the earlier model was right for that time,'' he said on CNBC. ''I don't think it's right anymore.''
Not all of these banking elders have spoken out of concern for the safety of the global financial system. Both Mr. Weill and Mr. Purcell noted that cleaving apart big banks would improve their stock market values.
But their sentiments are not necessarily shared by their successors. Jamie Dimon, Mr. Weill's longtime protege who now runs JPMorgan Chase, turned aside questions about the bank's size after the latest earnings.
''There's huge strength in this company that units get from each other,'' Mr. Dimon said, who said that splitting up JPMorgan would affect ''very short-term stuff.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sanford I. Weill on Wednesday called for separation of banks' trading and deposit units. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CNBC) (B1)
 Sanford I. Weill, left, and John S. Reed forged the megamerger that created Citigroup in 1998. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (75%); EXECUTIVES (74%); GREAT DEPRESSION (73%); MERGERS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (68%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (92%); WALTER B JONES (58%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



958 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: House Panel Questions Geithner on His Handling of Barclays' Rate-Rigging

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS; Mark Scott and Michael J. de la Merced contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Timothy F. Geithner was questioned sharply on Wednesday about the rate-rigging scandal that has consumed the banking industry, as lawmakers at a House hearing asked why he had failed to thwart wrongdoing during the financial crisis.
Republicans took aim at Mr. Geithner for, in their view, going easy on Wall Street despite knowing that some banks had been trying to manipulate a key interest rate. When he ran the Federal Reserve Bank of New York in 2008, Mr. Geithner advocated broad reforms to the rate-setting process rather than curbing the bad behavior at specific banks.
Mr. Geithner, now the Treasury secretary, also acknowledged on Wednesday that he had never alerted federal prosecutors to the wrongdoing. The revelation further stoked the ire of Republicans, including some regular detractors of Mr. Geithner. 
''It appears you treated it as almost a curiosity, or something akin to jaywalking, as opposed to highway robbery,'' said Jeb Hensarling, Republican of Texas.
The hearing before the House Financial Services Committee was the latest forum to scrutinize regulators' role in the rate manipulation scandal. Lawmakers have pressed the New York Fed and its British counterparts to explain why illegal actions went unchecked for years.
But Mr. Geithner escaped relatively unscathed from the more than two-hour hearing. Even as Republicans denounced Mr. Geithner for his actions as president of the New York Fed, many Democrats rushed to his defense. Barney Frank, a Massachusetts Democrat, declared that it was the banks, not regulators, that ''grievously misbehaved.''
Mr. Geithner, who on Wednesday was also asked to outline the broader state of Wall Street regulation, challenged his Republican critics. In testimony, Mr. Geithner said that he was ''very concerned'' about the interest rate problem and he had promptly notified other regulators about his worries.
British authorities who oversee the rate, he said, failed to heed his warnings.
''We took the initiative to bring those concerns to the attention of the broader U.S. regulatory community,'' Mr. Geithner said, referring to the Commodity Futures Trading Commission and Securities and Exchange Commission. ''I believe we did the necessary and appropriate thing very early in the process.''
The controversy centers on the London interbank offered rate, or Libor, a measure of how much banks charge to lend to one another. Libor, lawmakers observed, is entwined in the financial system as a benchmark for trillions of dollars in mortgages and other loans.
A global investigation into more than a dozen big banks has now called into question the integrity of the important rate. Last month, Barclays struck a $450 million settlement with American and British authorities over accusations that it had undermined Libor to bolster its trading profits and project a strong image of its health, the first action to stem from the multiyear inquiry.
On Wednesday, the European Commission announced plans to make the manipulation of benchmark interest rates a criminal offense.
Barclays on Wednesday also disclosed the resignation of Alison Carnwath, head of the firm's compensation board committee, in the latest shake-up at the beleaguered bank. She is leaving for undisclosed personal reasons. The firm's chairman, Marcus Agius, and chief executive, Robert E. Diamond Jr., have agreed to step down amid the inquiries into Libor.
The New York Fed learned in April 2008 that Barclays had been artificially depressing its rates. ''We know that we're not posting, um, an honest'' rate, a Barclays employee told a New York Fed official.
Mr. Geithner said he was not then aware of ''that specific conversation.''
But that same day, New York Fed officials wrote in a weekly internal memo that the problem was widespread. ''Our contacts at Libor contributing banks have indicated a tendency to underreport actual borrowing costs,'' New York Fed officials wrote. At the time, high borrowing costs were a sign of poor health.
Even after discovering that banks were manipulating Libor, the New York Fed pursued a somewhat passive approach. When Mr. Geithner briefed other American regulators on Libor in May 2008, he did not disclose the specific wrongdoing at Barclays.
Republicans also seized on Mr. Geithner's acknowledgment that he had not notified the Justice Department about the illegal behavior. The Justice Department, he explained, did not belong to the group of regulators that were focused on Libor.
In response to the criticism, Mr. Geithner pointed to his past efforts to reform Libor. He noted the New York Fed had repeatedly pressed for an overhaul of the rate-setting process. In a June 2008 e-mail to the Bank of England, the country's central bank, Mr. Geithner recommended that British officials ''eliminate incentive to misreport'' Libor.
The New York Fed then advocated fixes more forcefully than its British counterparts, records show. British authorities later adopted only some of Mr. Geithner's recommendations.
''We gave them very specific detailed changes,'' Mr. Geithner said, adding that ''if more of those would have been adopted sooner, you would have limited the risk.''
But Randy Neugebauer, Republican of Texas, questioned why the New York Fed had focused on policy solutions rather than the overt legal violations. ''If they were having structural problems, then I think your e-mail was appropriate,'' said Mr. Neugebauer, who is leading an investigation into how the New York Fed had handled the Libor scandal. ''But what was being disclosed here was fraud.''
Ultimately, Mr. Geithner said, responsibility rests with the British regulators. ''We felt, and I still believe this, it was really going to be on them to fix this.''
Democrats echoed his argument. ''I for one am not part of the 'blame America first' crowd,'' said Brad Sherman, Democrat of California.
Other Democratic lawmakers praised Mr. Geithner for championing reforms to Libor.
''There's been an effort to blame you for all of this,'' said Mr. Frank, the ranking Democrat on the committee. But that is a surprising stance for Republicans, he said, given their general aversion to regulatory authority.
Or, as Michael E. Capuano, Democrat from Massachusetts, asked Mr. Geithner about the Republican complaints, aren't they ''hypocritical?''
Mr. Geithner replied, ''I would leave that to others to say.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, Wednesday on Capitol Hill. He testified about his past efforts to reform Libor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); SCANDALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (69%); SECURITIES TRADING (66%); INTERBANK LENDING (60%)

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (85%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (52%)

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (85%); BARC (LSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (85%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (84%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (84%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); JEB HENSARLING (58%); BARNEY FRANK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



959 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: A New Faith in Classical Music

BYLINE: By JAMES R. OESTREICH

 BODY:
SALZBURG, Austria -- It has been called the city of churches, and bell towers sound frequent reminders. Yet there is little about latter-day Salzburg, which fiercely commercializes its status as Mozart's birthplace and the setting for ''The Sound of Music,'' that brings to mind the word ''spirituality.'' Tacky Mozart mementos and confections vie for tourists' dollars with magnificent performances of his music.
Nor is spirituality a word you associate nowadays with the Salzburg Festival, a once-modest summer presentation of classical music and theater founded in 1920 by the playwright Hugo von Hofmannsthal, the composer Richard Strauss and others, now grown huge and proud. A product of the economic and cultural despair at the fall of the Hapsburg empire, it is now the summer home of the vaunted Vienna Philharmonic; it's famous for lavish opera productions and notorious for some of the highest ticket prices anywhere. 
But last weekend the festival, with a week added to the front of its calendar, embarked on a 10-day Spiritual Overture. And in doing so, the festival, which has become something of a bellwether since Gerard Mortier shook it up in the 1990s after decades of elegant sameness under the conductor Herbert von Karajan, seems to have caught a wave of spirituality that is surging through the world of classical music (or, given the years of advance planning involved, helped instigate it).
On Aug. 8 the Lucerne Festival in Switzerland, which has in recent years been giving increased prominence to sacred music in its Easter outings, opens a summer season called Faith, with repertory including the Mozart and Verdi Requiems and with the spiritually minded Sofia Gubaidulina as composer in residence. Next season the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra expands on its Music of the Spirit weeks, which have so far included dramatic productions of the Mozart Requiem and Handel's ''Messiah,'' with a reprise of the Mozart Requiem in the fall and a nine-day festival in the spring. Also formative in all of this, Lincoln Center's White Light Festival, a highly personal creation of Jane Moss, the center's artistic director, enters its third season this fall.
The Salzburg ''overture,'' the first in a projected annual series, is to feature a different faith each year. This season the focus is on Judaism, and on Tuesday evening in the Felsenreitschule, the moody auditorium carved into a mountainside, Zubin Mehta conducted the Israel Philharmonic Orchestra and the Collegiate Chorale (of New York) in the first of three concerts serving as centerpiece.
The inspired program -- shaped by Mr. Mehta and Alexander Pereira, the festival's new artistic director -- was framed by Schoenberg's eloquent ''Kol Nidre,'' composed in Los Angeles in 1938, shortly before Kristallnacht in Germany, and Noam Sheriff's brilliantly conceived choral symphony ''Mechaye Hametim'' (''Revival of the Dead''), written in 1985 and centering on the Holocaust. It also included Mahler's ''Kindertotenlieder'' (''Songs on the Death of Children''), which, though not ostensibly spiritual and certainly not Holocaust related, took on added meaning from the context: the more so, given the epic cast of the baritone Thomas Hampson's superb performance.
Abetted by Mr. Hampson's tour de force, in which he also served as narrator in the Schoenberg and spoke and sang in the Sheriff, the evening's performances were everywhere excellent. To single out one other individual, Carl Hieger, a tenor, provided a touching cantorial inflection in the Sheriff.
The concert was greeted warmly, even clamorously, by an almost full house. This, in a city with a long tradition of anti-Semitism, came in striking contrast to, say, the Israel Philharmonic's reception last September at the London Proms, where hecklers, injecting current Middle East politics, disrupted a concert.
''It's not by chance that we start with Jewish music,'' Mr. Pereira, the intendant, or artistic director, of the Salzburg Festival, said in an interview. Asked whether anyone had voiced objections, he responded emphatically, ''They wouldn't dare.''
Mr. Pereira, 64, said that he first conceived the notion of a spiritual festival almost 30 years ago, when he became secretary general of the Vienna Konzerthaus, but could only now implement it.
''There is definitely something in the air,'' he said of the current wave of spirituality in classical music. He suggests that people are looking for something beyond rationalism: a kind of idealism, something that speaks to their own values.
He felt vindicated by audience reactions to the opening weekend of the overture, he said. ''It's as if people were expecting something that finally comes,'' he added, ''even if they didn't know what they were expecting.''
Mr. Pereira is far from alone in finding the time ripe for spirituality. In Ms. Moss's case, at Lincoln Center, spirituality is merely part of a larger concern: transcendence, looking inside yourself.
''There is a huge hunger for more human connections,'' said Ms. Moss, who describes herself as ''a secular mystic.'' ''People are looking for larger experiences in a cyberworld'' that becomes ever more ''like eating candy.''
''Music,'' she added, ''is going to end up being the only live experience left in the world.''
Manfred Honeck, the music director of the Pittsburgh Symphony, sees a nascent ''spiritual revolution'' partly in response to economic crisis. With economies failing around the world, he said, ''it is a moment like the collapse of Communism.''
''People feel a lot of things,'' he added, ''and music helps them to understand. What we are presenting is not just performances but something meant to add context to our time.''
Helga Rabl-Stadler, the president of the Salzburg Festival, while seconding some of what others had to say about the mind-set of the times, also cited a simpler reason for a broadening appeal of spiritual music. The Mozart C minor Mass (K. 427) that she had heard at the festival the day before, she said, ''was like opera, with more heart, more soul.''
In addition to the Israel Philharmonic performances the Spiritual Overture has included evenings by John Eliot Gardiner and the Monteverdi Choir and will include concerts by Claudio Abbado and his Orchestra Mozart and Nikolaus Harnoncourt and his Concentus Musicus Wien. The Salzburg Festival proper opens on Friday, with Mr. Harnoncourt conducting the Concentus Musicus and Vienna State Opera forces in Mozart's ''Zauberflote,'' and the Vienna Philharmonic takes center stage on Sunday in a morning concert and an evening production of the original version of Strauss's opera ''Ariadne auf Naxos.''
As for the more distant future Salzburg's Spiritual Overture moves on to Buddhism next year. And Mr. Mehta and the Israel Philharmonic should consider taking the splendid Schoenberg-Sheriff program to New York, where another audience sure to be receptive awaits, festival or no. The chorus, after all, is already there.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Thomas Hampson, left, and Zubin Mehta in Salzburg. (A1)
 Above, the baritone Thomas Hampson at the Salzburg Festival's Spiritual Overture, led on Tuesday by Zubin Mehta, top. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SILVIA LELLI) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (92%); MUSIC (90%); OPERA (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); THEATER (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); RELIGION (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); EASTER SEASON (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); LUZERN, SWITZERLAND (58%) AUSTRIA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%); SWITZERLAND (58%); GERMANY (50%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



960 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: The High-Profile Facialist

BYLINE: By BEE-SHYUAN CHANG

 BODY:
WALK into any drugstore and you'll find a bounty of summer beauty products: pore strips, cucumber masks, acid peels and those intimidating, lance-like steel blackhead extractors.
''You can buy everything now,'' said Joanna Vargas, a Manhattan facialist who has tended the complexions of Rachel Weisz, Michelle Williams and Sofia Coppola. ''You've read about 50 different masks that are supposedly good for pores. You don't know which one to buy, so maybe you buy all 50 and gadgets, too. At the end of the day, people still don't know what to do with all of this stuff.''
Perhaps this is why Ms. Vargas's clients, many of whom she calls her friends, pay $400 for a 60-minute facial. In fact, despite providing a service that in this world of lasers and Botox can seem old-fashioned, Ms. Vargas's three-room spa, which is on Fifth Avenue across from the main branch of the New York Public Library, is thriving. Over nearly six years, the business, which employs four aestheticians, has survived the recession and is expanding a year-old house organic skin care line with a new moisturizer in August ($75) and an eye cream ($85) this fall. 
''Her treatments are very relaxing,'' Ms. Weisz wrote in an e-mail about Ms. Vargas, whom she has been seeing for four years. ''I tend to fall into a deep sleep as soon as she starts the facial.''
Last week, Ms. Vargas, 42 and apparently poreless herself, was in a treatment room despite delivering a baby girl eight weeks before. Ms. Coppola ''was so thoughtful to send a baby gift,'' said Ms. Vargas, who also tends to Holli Rogers, Net-a-Porter.com's fashion director, and Zac Posen.
Rather than wear a white lab coat, Ms. Vargas is in a sweeping black gown, Pamela Love necklace and platform heels. Indeed, Ms. Love is also a client. ''I went a lot before my wedding in May,'' the jeweler said later.
Though ''skeptical at first,'' Ms. Love eventually was pleased with the results of the spa's LED light bed and Triple Crown Facial, which involves microcurrents and exfoliation customized to each patient's skin type. She also went back partly for Ms. Vargas's warm bedside manner, a characteristic that Jane Larkworthy, the beauty director of W magazine, suggested is crucial for succeeding in the field these days.
''More and more of the top tier facialists are somebody you can relate to,'' Ms. Larkworthy said. ''It used to be when you go to a facialist, it was like some 70-year-old Eastern European woman at Georgette Klinger who would insult you. Joanna's more like a peer. She can talk about anything.''
Today, though, Ms. Vargas said she was running slow, afflicted by ''baby brain.'' ''I've been up since 4:30 this morning and then Dr. Frank Lipman came in for a facial,'' she said, referring to the diet guru, over a lunch of tofu and one of several green juices she recommends to clients who don't eat properly (''which affects their skin,'' she said).
For actresses working on movies filmed outside their customary climate, Ms. Vargas will coordinate with the film's makeup department to pack appropriate skin care; if it's a domestic locale, she might whip up a mask with ingredients from her kitchen.
''She can heal and cure any skin problem and keeps everything very simple and unfussy,'' Ms. Weisz said.
Ms. Vargas said her drive came from her grandparents, immigrants from Mexico on her mother's side and Ireland on her father's. ''There was a certain amount of 'you have to work hard and be successful,' '' she said.
But she took an erudite and rambling path into cosmetology, majoring in women's studies and photography at the University of Chicago and writing a senior thesis about beauty empowering women. ''My argument was that a woman seeks to be beautiful for herself and not because society tells her,'' Ms. Vargas said. ''I didn't know I'd wind up being a facialist, but there you go.''
After pursuing photography for several years and dabbling as a makeup artist, she enrolled in the Christine Valmy beauty school in Midtown Manhattan, where she found a calling in facials, later putting in time at Dr. Brad Katchen's SkinCareLab and Oasis Day Spa.
''I didn't tell my parents for a while,'' Ms. Vargas said. ''Especially at that time, it was viewed as a failure. My older brother, he's a lawyer, kept asking when I was going to stop messing around and go to law school.''
Instead of torts and briefs, she has learned about facials using puffs of oxygen; LEDs (which can be effective on acne), which she now administers in a bed she designed herself; and microcurrents. ''These currents are all the rage with the movie stars who come into my office for Botox,'' said Dr. Debra Jaliman, the author of ''Skin Rules: Trade Secrets From a Top New York Dermatologist'' and an assistant professor at Mount Sinai School of Medicine. ''They keep saying there's a difference, so maybe there's some gradual effect.''
It's also not uncommon to see a professional athlete like the National Basketball Association guard Steve Nash (Ms. Vargas said he booked a treatment before shooting a Nike commercial) in the office's waiting area.
Tim Morehouse, an American fencer who was a silver medalist at the Beijing Olympics, had his first facial with Ms. Vargas. ''I had to do a photo shoot and somebody suggested I get one,'' said Mr. Morehouse, calling from London where he is to compete in the Games. ''You almost don't want to talk about it with guys. There's a stigma associated with it. But I wear a mask and I'm sweating all day. When I take a picture, it's often representing my sport and country. I want to look my best.'' Mr. Morehouse has been back a few times. ''It definitely brightened my face,'' he said.
Though Dr. Jaliman said she is leery about oxygen treatments, which she said would require a high-pressure chamber to penetrate the skin, she added: ''I'm all in favor of facials. Many people, especially in the summer, have clogged pores that need steaming and extracting. It's good to go to a professional. It seems easy to do at home, but I can't tell you the kinds of messes people get themselves in when they try to extract on their own.''
Moreover, Ms. Vargas backs up a dermatologist recommendation by instructing clients to wear sunscreen.
But perhaps most important, she knows the value of having a discreet ear for their confidences and opinions.
''I'm a really good listener,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UPON CLOSE INSPECTION: Joanna Vargas, through massage, masks and light treatments, works with a variety of clients. She is expanding her line of skin care products. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA BRIGHT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); ACNE (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (73%); NONSURGICAL COSMETIC PROCEDURES (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (67%); LIBRARIES (67%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (63%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



961 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Selling More Than a Flashy Deal

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
EACH day at noon for the last few years, Rory Roth-Honigfeld has logged on to Gilt.com to browse the latest limited-time offer deals on clothing, food, yoga classes in Manhattan and wine tastings in the Hamptons.
''Being a working woman or a man, especially in New York City, you are so busy that you don't have time to shop,'' said Ms. Roth-Honigfeld, a communications executive whose latest purchases include a Factory by Erik Hart dress ($79), three Barry's Bootcamp classes ($58) and a haircut, shave and glass of whiskey for her boyfriend at the New York Shaving Company ($40). ''I can't even tell you the last time I was in a department store,'' she said, explaining that so-called flash-sale shopping is ''right in front of me, it's fast, I don't have to leave my office, and you know you're getting a good discount.'' 
Indeed, these days there are so many online shopping destinations like Gilt, you might think visiting an actual brick-and-mortar store (many of which have introduced their own versions of the sites) was completely passe. Over the last five years, the flash-sales industry has had average revenue growth of almost 50 percent a year, according to the research firm IBISWorld, which expects the number of flash-sale sites to reach about 150 by 2017, up from about 90 today.
''There's so many, I can't keep track of them,'' said Jennifer Black, chief executive of Jennifer Black & Associates, a retailing research company.
But four years after the economy fell off a cliff, the jaw-dropping deals and act-quick-or-it's-gone excitement that flash-sale pioneers like Gilt, HauteLook and Rue La La delivered on a daily basis are no longer as novel, and some retail experts are wondering if the business model can be sustained.
''It's going to be challenging for them to find the inventory to offer at a discounted price,'' said Andrea Alegria, an industry analyst with IBISWorld, who expects a significant slowdown as soon as next year. She projected revenue growth of 12.4 percent compared with 26.3 percent this year for flash-sale sites. ''They're going to have to appeal to customers with other products.''
The sites have begun doing just that, offering services and merchandise supplied exclusively for them: giving additional discounts to consumers who use social sites like Pinterest; introducing shoppers to emerging designers; and broadening their offerings to include food, housewares, antiques, beauty services, travel and fitness.
For example, Ms. Roth-Honigfeld had long wanted to try Barry's Bootcamp but said she could not justify paying $32 a class. GiltCity.com, a Gilt Groupe site, enabled her to take a few classes at about $19 each, and continues to allow her to ''dip into different activities New York City has to offer but that you might not necessarily be able to afford,'' she said.
Dozens of flash sites are now catering to niches, be it Zulily (children's goods), One Kings Lane (home furnishings) or JackThreads (men's wear). At the same time, a new crop of members-only sites that look just like flash sales (they send daily e-mail blasts and dangle items for a limited time in glossy virtual storefronts) has emerged. Except that these sites don't offer deep discounts. In fact, they don't offer discounts at all.
''We never even considered ourselves a flash-sale site,'' said Jason Goldberg, chief executive of Fab.com, a member's-only site that resembles a flash sale but is, as he put it, a ''lifestyle shop'' filled with vintage housewares and the sorts of clever items one might find in the Museum of Modern Art gift shop or on Etsy.com. It's ''very different from the T. J. Maxx and Filene's Basement bring-it-online model,'' said Mr. Goldberg, whose company recently announced it had raised $105 million in new financing.
Kit Yarrow, a consumer psychologist, an author of ''Gen BuY'' and chairwoman of the psychology department at Golden Gate University in San Francisco, said Fab was catering to what shoppers crave. ''Yes, it helps that it's a good price,'' she said, ''but I think their ability to cultivate a collection that's really appealing and unusual appeals to what's been missing in shopping for a while: that feeling that you're going on a treasure hunt. That's long been one of the primary joys of shopping for people.''
Professor Yarrow is such a fan of Fab that when friends asked where she bought a recent trinket, she didn't tell them so as to try (in vain) to keep the site on the down low. She also praised Fab's including photos of the designers or merchants the site showcases. ''They have either an editor or somebody that actually puts a face on each of their products,'' Professor Yarrow said. ''It feels like a relationship more than a transaction.''
She suggested that the problem with many other flash sales was that they deluged consumers with e-mails and proffer merchandise that's available in other places, making it feel less special. In scores of interviews with consumers, she has learned that low prices are not enough: people want things that are different and rare.
Indeed, Gilt and other flash-sale leaders, once known for their deals, are now repositioning themselves as purveyors of special things. And often now, these items are not discounted at all. Last year, Gilt Groupe introduced a high-end, full-price online men's store, Park & Bond, in addition to the full-price items it already had on Gilt Taste, its specialty-food site, and Jetsetter, its travel site. A newer site, Moda Operandi, which the socialite Lauren Santo Domingo helped found and which recently raised millions from investors including IMG and LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, also steers clear of discounts, offering customers early access to designer merchandise instead.
Increasingly, what the sites are really selling is a point of view (or, as retailers like to say, a lifestyle).
''That's what's going to deliver incredible growth into the future,'' said Steve Davis, president of the flash-sale site Rue La La. ''The consumer is anxious for us to curate more and more of anything that might fit into their lives.'' That means selling access not just to things but to experiences, like meeting a fashion designer or enjoying a private meal by a famous chef. ''It's not something you can buy on the menu,'' Mr. Davis said, adding, ''We think about what we do like it's must-see shopping, like a television channel.''
Some of these innovations have proved successful.
Mr. Davis said that more than 75 percent of customers who bought a particular brand on Rue La La were buying it for the first time. And many items on new shopping sites are by independent designers, which users are discovering on social sites like Pinterest and the Fancy. More than 50 percent of the five million or so members that Fab has attracted in the last year have come from ''social sharing'' on such sites, Mr. Goldberg said.
To capitalize on these referrals, sites like Uncovet, which went live in June, are offering users even better deals and bonuses on clothing and home goods when they use networking sites like Pinterest, Svpply and Twitter. Gilt has also offered extra savings to members willing to ''re-pin'' Gilt Kids products displayed on its Pinterest page.
Ms. Black, the retailing analyst, said she was impressed with the new tactics. Then again, sometimes all it takes to close a sale is a glance at something beautiful.
''There's the cutest top,'' Ms. Black said, clicking through a Helmut Lang sale on Gilt while discussing the perils of casual discount shopping. ''Oh, these are so deadly,'' she said while assessing an $85 silk jersey top. ''This is why I don't like to go here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FLASH FORWARD: Shopping sites are starting to offer exclusive services and merchandise made especially for them.(E2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GROUP BUYING (90%); RETAILERS (90%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); YOGA (77%); NEW ECONOMY (76%); WOMEN WORKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); INTERNET RETAILING (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



962 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Where The Jobs Are

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
WILLISTON, N.D.
Right now you are probably asking yourself: ''What would it be like to live in a place with an unemployment rate of 1 percent?''
Me, too! So I went to Williston, N.D., to find out. There are certain things that journalists do as a public service because you, the noble reader, are probably not going to do them for yourself -- like attending charter revision meetings or reading the autobiography of Tim Pawlenty. Going to Williston is sort of in this category. The people are lovely, but you're talking about a two-hour drive from Minot.
If you did come, however, you would feel really, really wanted. Radio ads urged me to embark on a new career as a bank teller, laborer, railroad conductor or cake decorator. The local Walmart has a big sign up, begging passers-by to consider starting their lives anew in retail sales. The Bakken Region Recruiter lists openings in truck driving, winch operating and canal maintenance work, along with ads for a floral designer, bartender, public defender, loan officer, addiction counselor and sports reporter. All in an area where the big city has a population of around 16,000. 
There's an oil boom. The Bakken formation, which runs under the western part of North Dakota and into Montana, contains a huge amount of oil, which the industry figured out how to extract about five years ago. Williston's median income, which was under $30,000 when the serious drilling started, has jumped to well over $50,000 a year. Job-seekers flooded in. The schools are now so crowded that teachers are holding classes in modular units, some dating back to the '80s, and one that was constructed by a high school shop class.
''It's a place of opportunity,'' says E. Ward Koeser, the genial head of a local communications company who has also been Williston's part-time mayor for the last 18 years. A waitress at a restaurant that Koeser patronizes recently told him that she made $400 in tips on a single night. ''Although I'm sure that's not the norm,'' he added hastily.
You are probably wondering about the downside. Obviously there has to be one, or you and I would already have moved to Williston, or at least taken up a collection to send unemployed college graduates.
Well, the oil is extracted through the environmentally suspect method of hydrofracking. The area appears to be geologically well suited to the process, but it still uses up a ton of water. Also, an endless progression of large trucks create spills, tie up traffic and tear up the roads.
''Is it dustier, dirtier -- yes,'' said the mayor. While it's normal for some of the town's retirees to move south, these days, he acknowledged, a lot of residents are just packing up and going to Bismarck. ''My goal,'' Koeser said intently, ''is that the day comes when they say: 'I want to move back to Williston.' ''
You would expect that, as population and incomes rose, new stores, theaters and restaurants would follow. But, in Williston, they haven't. Lanny Gabbert, a science teacher at the high school, says his students yearn for a mall where they could shop, ''but the closest thing is Walmart.'' The most ambitious restaurants would be classified under the heading of ''casual dining,'' and the fast food is not fast, given the lunchtime lines that can stretch out for 20 minutes or more. Neither retailers nor restaurateurs are interested in investing in a place where they have to compete with the oil fields to attract workers.
''The retailers are at least looking at us,'' said the mayor. He is a stupendously positive thinker who wants to build Williston into a city that rivals Fargo and Bismarck as a convention destination. ''Why can't Williston be the best little city in America?'' he demanded.
Well, right now because there's no place to live. Honestly, no place. To house its teachers, the school district has already purchased two apartment buildings, which have long since been filled even though the residents are all required to share their homes with another teacher. Superintendent Viola LaFontaine has taken to the radio airwaves, urging citizens to come up with places for the new faculty to stay.
''We've been getting good applicants,'' LaFontaine said. ''But they'll make $31,500. When they find out an apartment is $2-3,000 a month, they say they can't pay that.''
Yes! Housing costs in Williston, N.D., are approaching those in New York City. Many of the oil workers stash their families back wherever they came from, and live in ''man camps,'' some of which resemble giant stretches of storage units.
''The man camps -- I call them the necessary evil,'' said Koeser, who added, apologetically, ''that's a little derogatory.''
If the place you love can't quite climb out of the recession, think of this as consolation. At least you're not living in a man camp and waiting half an hour in line for a Big Mac.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); JOURNALISM (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); TRUCK DRIVERS (75%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (74%); WRITERS (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (71%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (70%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (69%); RADIO ADVERTISING (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (65%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (64%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); MONTANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



963 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Severe Drought Seen As Driving Cost Of Food Up

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY and RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Scorching heat and the worst drought in nearly a half-century are threatening to send food prices up, spooking consumers and leading to worries about global food costs.
On Wednesday, the government said it expected the record-breaking weather to drive up the price for groceries next year, including milk, beef, chicken and pork. The drought is now affecting 88 percent of the corn crop, a staple of processed foods and animal feed as well as the nation's leading farm export.
The government's forecast, based on a consumer price index for food, estimated that prices would rise 4 to 5 percent for beef next year with slightly lower increases for pork, eggs and dairy products. 
The drought comes along with heat. So far, 2012 is the hottest year ever recorded in the United States, according to the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, whose records date to 1895. That has sapped the production of corn, soybeans and other crops, afflicting poultry and livestock in turn.
It is also harming parts of the infrastructure. Highways in Texas, nuclear power plants in Illinois, runways and subway rails in Washington and the concrete, steel and sophisticated engineering that undergird the nation's infrastructure are being taxed to worrisome degrees by heat, drought and vicious storms.
The impact of the hot and dry weather on the nation's farmers has put new pressure on Congress to move ahead on a pending five-year farm bill. But House Republican leaders have been reluctant to act because of divisions within the party's rank-and-file about the cost of the nearly $1 trillion bill.
The legislation includes several federal agriculture programs that farmers have come to expect, though it does not include any specific drought assistance. Several important disaster relief programs expired at the end of 2011, leaving farmers and ranchers who have lost cattle or grazing land with few options without Congressional action.
''I've been urging the House of Representatives to get a bill to the floor and get it voted on so they can conference with the Senate and get a farm bill passed,'' said Thomas J. Vilsack, the agriculture secretary.
For now, analysts said they expected the broader economic impact of rising food prices to be modest. Americans spend just 13 percent of their household budgets on food. The falling price of gasoline -- fuel and transportation costs being a major component of prices at restaurants and grocery stores -- will help temper any price increases.
Analysts said there might be little effect on economic growth or overall inflation, which has been running around 2 percent a year.
But economists said consumers -- particularly the poor and unemployed -- would still feel the effects.
''It is one extra kick in the stomach'' for low-income families, said Chris G. Christopher, senior principal economist at IHS, a consulting firm. ''There's a lot of people in this country living paycheck to paycheck. This is not a good thing for them.''
Higher food prices might also damp consumer sentiment. ''Consumers are very sensitive to the price of gas and food,'' said Jeet Dutta, a senior economist at Moody's Analytics. ''But overall inflation will still look pretty moderate for the rest of the year.''
Economists fear a far greater impact outside of the United States because America is a major exporter of a broad variety of agricultural products. Lower production at home means less supply and higher prices abroad.
''We're seeing the price of wheat, corn and beans go up,'' said Marc Sadler, the head of the agricultural risk management team at the World Bank, noting that in other regions of the world, like Eastern Europe, yields were also falling.
''Food wheat is about bread and cookies and instant noodles. But it's about instant noodles in Asia and Indonesia, as much as it is about what you're going to buy in Walmart,'' Mr. Sadler said.
Countries that import substantial amounts of animal feed made from corn and soybeans will feel the impact the most, said Maximo Torero, an economist with the International Food Policy Research Institute, an international research group.
On Wednesday, government data showed the extent to which the heat and the drought had devastated crops and provided a first look at next year's expected price increases.
The Agriculture Department's figures show the largest percentage increase next year in its price indexes is expected for beef, a rise of 4 to 5 percent. The price of dairy products will increase 3.5 to 4.5 percent and eggs by 3 to 4 percent. Pork is expected to rise 2.5 to 3.5 percent.
The department also slashed its estimate for what was supposed to be the largest corn harvest on record. The government cut its corn yield forecast to 146 bushels an acre for the year, the lowest corn yield since 2003. The outlook just last month was for 166 bushels. The soybean yield is projected to be 40 bushels an acre, down from an estimate of 43.9 last month.
Cattle farmers in several states have already started selling off or culling cattle because the drought has ruined grass for grazing and the price for corn for feed has skyrocketed.
Daniel R. Glickman, the agriculture secretary in the Clinton administration, said that as farmers started reducing or selling their herds, meat prices could fall because of a glut of beef on the market.
''So in the short term, that's good for customers,'' Mr. Glickman said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD PRICES (93%); DROUGHT (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (89%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CORN FARMING (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); POULTRY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (78%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); WEATHER (78%); MEATS (76%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (76%); ANIMALS (76%); LIVESTOCK FEED (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); INFRASTRUCTURE (74%); ENGINEERING (74%); GASOLINE PRICES (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (72%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); POOR POPULATION (70%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (69%); FAMILY (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); BUDGETS (64%); POWER PLANTS (52%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (52%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL OCEANIC & ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (56%)

PERSON: TOM VILSACK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



964 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Retailers' Idea: Think Smaller In Urban Push

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE CLIFFORD

 BODY:
As young Americans move to cities, retailers that grew up in the suburbs are following them. And unlike previous efforts, they are doing it the cities' way.
With little room to expand in the suburbs, retailers, including Office Depot, Wal-Mart and Target, are betting that opening small city stores will help their growth.
It is a significant shift from their approach in the past, when they tried to cram their big-box formats into cities, often prompting big fights. This time, the retailers studied city dwellers with anthropological intensity and overhauled things as varied as store sizes (the city stores are a small fraction of the size of the suburban ones), packages (they must be compact enough for pedestrians) and signs (they are simple, so shoppers can get in and out within minutes).
''The suburbs are basically saturated with retailers,'' said Patrick L. Phillips, chief executive of the Urban Land Institute, an urban-planning research nonprofit, ''but it's easy to develop stores in the suburbs, and hard to develop stores in cities.'' 
Office Depot has revamped its stores to create an ''economically defensible'' way of expanding into cities, said Kevin Peters, Office Depot's president of North America.
The main objective for shoppers in cities is speed. So a store in Hoboken that is a model for the company's urban branches is 5,000 square feet, about a fifth of a normal Office Depot. The shelves are about six feet high, much shorter than in a suburban store, so visitors can navigate quickly. The signs above the aisles are simplified so customers do not waste time interpreting them. The service desk, where shoppers can send packages or copy fliers, takes up a big chunk of the store, so no wandering is required.
A typical Office Depot has 9,000 items for sale. This one has 4,500. It sells immediate-replacement items (a pen) versus stock-up items (a 25-pack of pens). At sites where Office Depot has replaced one of its big-box stores with a small store, Mr. Peters said, the smaller iteration has retained 90 percent of the sales of its bigger predecessor.
Still, he acknowledged that the model was not perfect. A shopper in search of a desk, for instance, would have to study tiny dioramas of office sets; sales of desks in the small-format stores are, unsurprisingly, not great.
But retailers are now willing to come into cities on the cities' terms -- with all the zoning headaches, high rents and odd architecture -- because that is where the growth is. Most large American cities are growing faster than their suburbs for the first time in almost a century, according to a Brookings Institution analysis of census results released last month, largely because young adults are choosing urban apartment life. That population shift, along with Internet competition, have made the car-focused, big-box model less relevant.
Target opened its first City Targets, in Chicago, Los Angeles and Seattle, on Wednesday. At 80,000 to 100,000 square feet, City Target, at its smallest just over half the size of a remodeled Target, is aimed at urban shoppers. For instance, City Targets would not carry a six-piece patio set, but a three-piece balcony set instead.
''We see this as an opportunity for the people who live, work and play downtown, who probably have a suburban Target they call their home base,'' said Molly Snyder, a company spokeswoman. ''You'll see less 12-packs of paper towels and more four-packs, knowing most people will arrive by foot or public transportation and will have to carry it home.''
Wal-Mart, though it continues to build in the suburbs, is also courting cities. Where it once stampeded into urban areas -- and often met huge resistance from residents that led to its retreat -- it now uses more diplomacy. In Chicago, for instance, it has agreed to build stores with union labor, and it has donated to politicians and community groups in cities where it hopes to build. Wal-Mart is testing several types of city stores, like the large supercenters being built in Washington, the small Express stores in Chicago and the medium-size Neighborhood Market format store it will open in Los Angeles.
''It's become easier to site a Walmart, and we have become more accepted by the community,'' Leslie Dach, executive vice president for corporate affairs at Wal-Mart, said last month.
Getting approval is only part of the challenge, though. Existing small retailers in cities can be nimble in changing their shelves, as owners can see who is coming in and whether they buy starch, say, in the form of Popchips, rice noodles or yams. Executives at big retailers have little personal contact with most customers.
''It's much more difficult for a big chain who's got gigantic warehouses across the country to be sensitive to the local market,'' said Mr. Phillips of the Urban Land Institute. On the other hand, large retailers have servers full of data that helps them customize to city shoppers.
Take Wal-Mart's city-store prototype near Toronto, a 90,000-square-foot store that opened this year. It found that many nearby residents were recent immigrants living in apartments, and one of the first improvements they wanted to make was to their bathrooms, said Alan Blundell, vice president for Wal-Mart merchandise operations in Canada. So the store stocks a higher-than-usual quantity of toilet seats and shower heads.
Walgreen, after it acquired New York City-based Duane Reade in 2010, studied how Duane Reade, a city retailer for 50 years at that point, customized merchandise by neighborhood using loyalty card data.
For instance, a store in Union Square attracted commuters and tourists using the subway there, while the store a few blocks north drew mostly local residents. So the Union Square site carried lots of foot products for the unprepared tourists, along with cosmetics and snacks, while the branch just north of it was more heavily stocked with household-cleaning items, toothpaste and the like. In richer areas, Duane Reade will carry gluten-free products and loaves from Eli's Bread, said Joseph Magnacca, president of daily living products and solutions at Walgreen.
While Walgreen had city stores before it bought Duane Reade, it used the Duane Reade example to build and refine urban stores elsewhere. For instance, city shoppers dislike items in jars because of the weight. And weird architecture is often part of an urban store, so turn those pillars and columns into displays for candy, gum and magazines.
Over all, Mr. Magnacca said, the only standard element of running city retail is that nothing is standard.''No footprint is exactly the same and no product mix is exactly the same,'' he said. ''There is no one best solution.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Target opened one of its first City Targets in Chicago on Wednesday, offering more compact packages to cater to urban shoppers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BORRIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) CHARTS: Moving Back to the City: Population growth in the suburbs has long outpaced that of the cities they surround, but the most recent census data points to a reversal. (Sources: William H. Frey, Brookings Institution
 Census Bureau) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); SUBURBS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (76%); LAND USE PLANNING (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CENSUS (50%)

COMPANY: OFFICE DEPOT INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%)

TICKER: ODP (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS453210 OFFICE SUPPLIES & STATIONERY STORES (58%); SIC5943 STATIONERY STORES (58%); SIC5112 STATIONERY & OFFICE SUPPLIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



965 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: Better Disclosure for Private Loans

 BODY:
About two-thirds of bachelor's degree recipients borrow to complete their educations. The fortunate among them rely on federal loans that offer a low, fixed-interest rate and broad consumer protections that allow them to defer payments -- and stay out of default -- if they lose their jobs. But many students have been roped into costlier private student loans that have variable interest rates and few consumer protections. 
This means that borrowers who fall on hard times have few options other than default, which can make it more difficult for them to obtain credit, find jobs or rent apartments.
A new study issued jointly last week by the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau and the Department of Education makes clear that the government, Congress in particular, can do a better job of educating families to the significant differences between private and federal loans while making sure that colleges and lenders are upfront and honest about risks.
The study's most distressing finding is that more than 40 percent of students who borrowed privately were in fact eligible to borrow from the safer and generally less costly federal program. Those students, and the parents who co-signed for them, simply may not have known the difference between the two kinds of loans because no one told them. But because of variable interest rates, even sophisticated borrowers may not be prepared for ''payment shock'' when graduation rolls around and the first bill arrives in the mail.
The study says that the poor economy has made it hard for many student borrowers of private loans to meet their obligations and are at risk of default. Moreover, in 2005, the bankruptcy code was changed to distinguish private student loans from other consumer debt, making it more difficult to escape those loans in bankruptcy court. This has created a nightmare for borrowers who may have wandered unknowingly into the world of abusive, high-cost loans that were common during the subprime lending period when lenders were throwing money around without regard to the borrower's ability to repay.
At a minimum, Congress should revisit the bankruptcy law. It should also pass a pending bill sponsored by two Democratic senators, Richard Durbin of Illinois and Tom Harkin of Iowa, that would require colleges and lenders to thoroughly explain borrowing options to students. It would also prevent unnecessary borrowing by requiring lenders to check with colleges to determine how much money students are eligible to receive.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); STUDENT LOANS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (77%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (76%); FAMILY (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (76%); RESEARCH REPORTS (75%); LAYOFFS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (68%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF CONSUMER FINANCIAL PROTECTION (56%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (53%); TOM HARKIN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



966 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: M.T.A. Unveils Preliminary 2013 Budget

BYLINE: By MATT FLEGENHEIMER

 BODY:
The plan is ''risk-laden.'' The finances are ''fragile.'' And if the economy falters, do not count on a supple rainy-day fund. 
This, officials said, is what optimism looks like at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority.
In a proposal that board members have greeted as a welcome contrast to the deep service cuts in 2010, the authority released its $13.1 billion preliminary 2013 budget on Wednesday, less than a week after announcing its plans to expand and restore some service amid a sunnier fiscal picture.
Myriad caveats, though, applied. During his presentation to board members on Wednesday, Robert Foran, the agency's chief financial officer, emphasized the authority's long-term vulnerabilities to economic uncertainty, employee and retiree health care costs and pension costs, among other concerns.
''I believe we can manage,'' Mr. Foran said, ''if all the things fall in place.''
Joseph J. Lhota, the authority's chairman, said that he was pleased the budget could be balanced in the near term, and that he was ''more optimistic'' about the agency's economic viability than he was when he began his job in January. But even as ridership revenues have increased, Mr. Lhota said he worried about the ''long-term trend in our expenses.''
''The M.T.A.'s underlying cost structure is increasing for reasons that are beyond the authority's control,'' he added, ''so we are depending on all stakeholders' coming to the table to find ways to address those areas that we can control.''
The authority has cited some savings estimates that appear hard to predict, including an expected $22 million in annual savings resulting from attempts to curb fare evasion on buses.
The authority also hopes to cut the costs of its transit operations for disabled riders, estimating more than $230 million in annual savings by 2016. Expected changes include an initiative to give free MetroCards to users of Access-A-Ride -- which offers prearranged trips, often door-to-door, to disabled New Yorkers for $2.25 -- as an incentive to ride standard buses or subways instead. Access-A-Ride costs the authority about $60 per trip, officials said last month.
One budget linchpin is an expected fare increase, scheduled for March and expected to generate $450 million a year in increased revenue.
In November, the authority's board will see an updated budget forecast, and in December, it will vote to adopt the budget.
Though some public speakers at the agency's board meeting on Wednesday argued against a fare increase, many more came to thank the agency for the proposed service changes, including a permanent extension of the G train to Church Avenue in Brooklyn and a new bus route along the Far West Side of Manhattan.
Even this round of endorsements gave Mr. Lhota pause.
''When you get laudatory comments like that,'' he said later, ''there's only one place to go from there.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET FORECASTS (76%); TRENDS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (71%); SPECIAL NEEDS TRANSPORTATION (70%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); DISABLED PERSONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



967 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: For Council Speaker, Home on Weekends Is at the Jersey Shore

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
BRADLEY BEACH, N.J. -- Irene Maravelias was standing behind the counter of her popular deli here when she spotted a familiar customer, eating a Greek salad wrap and wearing shorts, a floral T-shirt and flip-flops.
''Hi, Christine,'' she called out, tilting her head. ''I didn't know that was you because I can't see so good.''
Christine, in fact, was Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker. And after Ms. Maravelias and Ms. Quinn chatted for several minutes about her vision problems, and whether diabetes or high blood pressure could be factors, Ms. Quinn gave Ms. Maravelias her cellphone number.
''If you want me to push the insurance company, I will,'' Ms. Quinn said, before ordering hummus for three dozen to go. 
In New York City, Ms. Quinn, a likely, and leading, candidate for mayor next year, is known as a gay-rights champion and a savvy if pugnacious Chelsea Democrat who has metamorphosed into an establishment figure comfortable with the city's moneyed elite.
But for almost a decade now, on as many weekends as she can squeeze in year-round, Ms. Quinn has also embraced a parallel and largely anonymous existence in this beach town as a ''Jersey Girl,'' as one antique sign in her 1924 bungalow reads.
''I like to drive around, see who has new flowers, who has new awnings,'' she said on a recent weekend, as a Rosanne Cash CD played in the background in her Volvo station wagon.
''This house is unfortunate,'' she observed, showing a visitor around the neighborhood. ''Why would you paint your house the color of mustard?''
Located in the Republican stronghold of Monmouth County, Bradley Beach is not the most advantageous place for an ambitious New York Democrat. But Ms. Quinn, a devotee of ''The Real Housewives of New Jersey'' and not its New York City counterpart, said she and her spouse, Kim M. Catullo, never considered, say, the Hamptons, even though she holds a fund-raiser there each summer and would most likely rub elbows with donors and fellow politicians.
Ms. Quinn said there was ''a large L.G.B.T. community in New Jersey,'' adding, ''I know that personally.'' She generally avoids getting involved in the state's politics, but she did criticize Gov. Chris Christie this year on same-sex marriage, which he opposes, saying the governor, a Republican, ''shouldn't play a political game.''
And New Jersey's Democratic power brokers appear to favor Ms. Quinn. She has collected more than $410,000 for her 2013 campaign from New Jersey residents and former senior state officials -- almost quadruple what any other mayoral rival has received. Her supporters include a former chief justice of the State Supreme Court, a former speaker of the State Assembly, a former attorney general, a former state party chairman, two former chairmen of powerful economic development agencies and two former chiefs of staff for governors.
Still, Ms. Quinn said she had not turned her house into a Lincoln Bedroom or Camp David for officials or allies. No council member has visited, she said.
Ms. Quinn grew up in Glen Cove, N.Y., on Long Island, and spent many summer afternoons at the beach in the Rockaways. But she developed an affinity for the Jersey Shore in the early 1990s, when she shared an Ocean Grove rental with friends she had made during a political campaign. She continued to visit the area, and in 2004, she and Ms. Catullo, a partner at Gibbons, a prominent New Jersey law firm, bought their four-bedroom, one-and-a-half-bathroom house for $485,000. They have since renovated the kitchen, expanded the master bedroom and planted hydrangeas.
Many politicians have their getaways. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, for example, has multiple vacation homes and seems most fond of spending time at the one in Bermuda.
For Ms. Quinn, the appeal of Bradley Beach, a quiet middle-class enclave a mile south of Asbury Park, is its low-key ambience and its convenient location. A short walk from the train station, the house is three blocks from the ocean, a 75-minute drive from the city and no more than an hour-and-a-half drive for Ms. Catullo's four siblings, all New Jersey residents whose families are frequent overnight guests.
''The point of the house is about family and having family functions and having a place to get away and relax,'' Ms. Quinn said.
The house is close enough to allow Ms. Quinn to race back and forth to events in the city. On the weekend before July 4, she drove down on Friday and spent the afternoon shopping for a family barbecue; drove back to the city on Saturday to attend the wedding of Chris Hughes, the Facebook co-founder, and Sean Eldridge, a political activist; and drove back to the shore to host the barbecue on Sunday. On Monday, it was back to New York for the funeral of Dr. Richard A. Isay, a prominent psychiatrist whose son, Josh, is Ms. Quinn's political consultant, and to appear at a news conference on healthy foods with Mr. Bloomberg. And then on Tuesday, New Jersey again, to host her sister and brother-in-law, visiting from Connecticut.
Ms. Quinn tries to relax by taking long strolls on the boardwalk, jumping the waves and lounging on the beach while reading magazines (People and Elle were atop her coffee table). But, admitting that ''boundaries aren't my forte,'' she often has a Bluetooth headphone in her ear, and she compulsively scrolls through her BlackBerry, even at stop signals while driving.
During the visit to her home, one minute, Ms. Quinn was fluffing her porch chair cushions and inspecting Figaro, her backyard fig tree. The next, she was calling her spokesman to discuss possible solutions involving the attorney general and others to a labor impasse with Consolidated Edison, asking, ''What about the A.G.?'' Then, as she pored over shopping lists for Costco and Wegman's at her dining room table, she telephoned Ms. Catullo to review the shopping list.
''How much clam on the half shell?'' she asked. ''Should I get the eggplant?''
Ms. Quinn describes herself as a good baker but a terrible cook. At the family barbecue, attended by several dozen Catullos as well as Ms. Quinn's father, she served drinks while Ms. Catullo, a vegetarian, flipped chicken cutlets and pork tenderloin.
''I have been told to step away from the grill,'' Ms. Quinn said.
She often shops at the Asbury Park farmers' market, nearby malls, big-box stores like PetSmart and a Wegman's mega-supermarket on Route 35, but, she noted, ''never Walmart.'' She is quick to recommend restaurants (the Belmar Cafe has ''a really good corned beef hash'') and flag local landmarks (Jack Nicholson's childhood home in Neptune; D'Arcy's Tavern, once owned by the sister of Jerramiah T. Healy, the mayor of Jersey City, who also owns a house in Bradley Beach).
She pronounces Avon to rhyme with ''have on,'' just like local residents, and knows about the quirky parking rules and when her dogs, Sadie and Justin, are allowed off-leash on the boardwalk. And she knows intimate details about many small-business owners.
''Oh, no,'' she said at one point, after parallel parking on Main Street. ''Our frame store went totally out of business. Oh, that's a drag. There were two women there; they were nice. One was a breast cancer survivor.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Christine C. Quinn, New York's Council speaker, making a pie in her Bradley Beach, N.J., home, and, top, at a market with her spouse, Kim M. Catullo.(A19)
 Speaker Christine C. Quinn, left, and her spouse, Kim M. Catullo, sprucing up their Bradley Beach home for a family gathering. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A22) MAP: Bradley Beach is about a 75-minute drive from New York.(A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); MAYORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); CITIES (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); GOVERNORS (73%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (67%); GAYS & LESBIANS (67%); LGBT RIGHTS (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (66%); MOTOR VEHICLES (64%); MARRIAGE (61%); DIABETES (55%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



968 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: Wave of Violent Repression Plagues Capital of Mali

BYLINE: By ADAM NOSSITER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

 BODY:
BAMAKO, Mali -- Hooded gunmen have abducted and beaten journalists at night. Soldiers who oppose the military junta have been tortured or forcibly ''disappeared.'' Those who mobbed and beat the country's elderly interim president escaped without charges.
While much alarm has been expressed about the extremist ministate in northern Mali, which has prompted hundreds of thousands of residents to flee the country, the situation here in the Malian capital is dire in its own way, with a worsening climate of repression and intimidation. 
Outside hopes for confronting the Islamists in the north have been pinned on the renewal of civil government here, after a military coup d'etat in March. Under international pressure, the junta agreed to a civilian government led by an unlikely Malian-American astrophysicist who once worked at NASA, Cheick Modibo Diarra, a political neophyte known for emotional outbursts.
While camouflaged by civilians, soldiers continue to pull the strings, according to human rights advocates, journalists who have been victimized and some opposition politicians.
Rather than taking on the Islamists who have seized northern Mali, the military in the south appears intent on striking back at rivals who carried out a failed countercoup in late April.
Human Rights Watch accused the army of engaging in a campaign of ''horrific'' abuse against opposing soldiers at the junta's headquarters outside Bamako. One witness reported to the group that Capt. Amadou Sanogo, the junta leader, was seen kicking a detainee who has since disappeared.
''Torture, sexual abuse and inhumane and degrading conditions'' are reported by Amnesty International, at the base where Captain Sanogo has his headquarters, in a report to be released next week.
''Since they have been in power, there has not been a single shot fired in the north,'' said Tiebile Drame, a leading opposition politician. Meanwhile, the press, mostly critical of the junta and the country's military, has been singled out for attack. ''They want people to shut up,'' said Kadidia Sangare Coulibaly, a lawyer who leads the National Human Rights Commission in Bamako.
In the last four weeks, two of the country's most prominent journalists have been hauled at gunpoint into the backs of pickup trucks and beaten with clubs and rifle butts. The attackers were not in uniform, but some wore army boots and carried weapons common with the Malian army. The beatings followed summonses to state security issued to two other prominent journalists.
''You journalists, you make us sick,'' the assailants shouted at Saouti Haidara as they beat him on a muddy ground outside town in the early hours of July 13, he said. Mr. Haidara, editor of L'Independent and considered the dean of the Malian press corps, suffered a broken arm and bruises throughout his body.
''It is you who are undermining this country!'' the men beating Abderrahmane Keita yelled at him, he recalled, on the night of July 2. A trap had been set for Mr. Keita, editor of L'Aurore: he had been promised news from the Islamist-held north.
''We have denounced the cowardice of the Malian Army for failing to defend and protect the populations of the north,'' Mr. Keita said in an interview on Wednesday, recalling how he was left in a muddy field covered in bruises and robbed of more than $2,000.
Much of the opposition, having given up on the Malian Army, wants an outside force to come in to clean up the mess in the north. The Economic Community of West African States, known as Ecowas, is willing, but so far there has been no invitation from what remains of authority here, or backing from the United Nations or United States.
Johnnie Carson, the assistant secretary of state for African affairs, said in an interview that military force would likely be needed to roll back the Islamists' gains in the north, but he said the Malian troops would have to take the lead in any such effort, something he acknowledged they were incapable of right now.
''Over time, it will be necessary to go in and root out the terrorist elements, but any operations in the north must be well planned, well organized, well resourced and well thought out,'' said Mr. Carson, who visited Mali last week and spoke to leaders there. ''It must have a significant Malian military component in front.''
He gave no timetable when a reconstituted Malian military would be strong enough to take this on. ''It's important that anything done be thought out and not precipitious,'' he said.
A sullen calm has descended on Bamako, with traffic greatly diminished, the economy at a standstill and the government taking few important decisions.
''There is a climate of intimidation and fear,'' Mr. Drame said. ''This is a country where you can beat up the president, and there are no consequences.''
Ten days ago, hundreds of women, wives of tortured and disappeared officers, descended in the streets to protest and demand news of their husbands. ''Frankly, it's a kind of psychosis,'' said Brahima Kone, president of the Interafrican Union for Human Rights.
At Kati, the soldiers accused of being in the countercoup had cigarettes stubbed out on them, were forced at gunpoint to engage in sex with one another, were suffocated by having rags pushed back into their mouths and chained and handcuffed for days on end, human rights groups say. Human Rights Watch estimates that at least 20 people have disappeared although other activists put the number higher.
''Now, power is being exercised by those who have weapons. And in a country where power rests with those who are armed, nobody is safe,'' said Mrs. Sangare Coulibaly of the national human rights commission.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maj. Gen. Seyni Garba of Niger, right, with Gen. Oluseyi Petinrin of Nigeria during an Economic Community of West African States meeting on Wednesday about the Malian crisis. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SIA KAMBOU/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TORTURE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); SHOOTINGS (89%); ARMIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUPS (78%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (78%); NEWS REPORTING (78%); POLITICS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); BONE FRACTURES (61%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF WEST AFRICAN STATES (59%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%); NIGERIA (79%); NIGER (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



969 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: House Hunting in ... the Bahamas

BYLINE: By VIRGINIA C. McGUIRE

 BODY:
THREE-BEDROOM BEACHFRONT COTTAGE ON GREAT ABACO ISLAND
$1.895 MILLION
This cottage was one of the first built on the beach in the resort community of Treasure Cay on Great Abaco Island. Built in traditional Bahamian style in 1975, it has a cedar roof, wood siding, and vivid colors: purple, turquoise and white, inside and out. The front door is reached through a lush tropical garden with palm trees and bright pink bougainvillea. The living-and-dining area has a double-height ceiling of unpainted local pine, and a pale gray floor in Mexican ceramic tile. Across the room, a full row of sliding glass doors topped with windows to the ceiling provide beach and ocean views. To the right of the entrance, a partial wall separates the living and dining area from the galley kitchen, which has white wood cabinets, an electric stove and a pantry. Beyond the kitchen are two bedrooms, one facing the beach and the other the garden. They share a hall bath.
A short flight of steps up from the living room leads to the master bedroom, which has one wall painted lavender, and a sliding glass door that opens onto a screened-in porch. In the adjacent master bathroom, the wooden vanity has a porcelain top. A door from the bathroom leads to a private outdoor shower with ocean views. 
A turquoise-painted wood deck runs the length of the house.
One step down from the deck is the beach, a pristine three-and-a-half-mile expanse of powdery white sand.
The center of Treasure Cay is a five-minute walk from the house, but most people travel by golf carts. The town has restaurants and shops, along with tennis courts, an 18-hole golf course, a dive shop and a marina. The Treasure Cay International Airport, 15 minutes away, has flights to Florida.
MARKET OVERVIEW
The Bahamian market is closely tied to the American economy. It was hit hard by the global financial crisis and has not yet recovered, said Everett Pinder, a real estate agent with Treasure Cay Real Estate. Prices dropped as much as 30 to 40 percent between 2007 and 2010, depending on the area. ''Prices are still down that far,'' Mr. Pinder said.
There are signs that the market is stabilizing, according to James Burdess, head of the Caribbean desk for Savills, the London-based real estate company. Mr. Burdess says that prices have held steady over the past year, and that sales volume is picking up as bargain-hunters swoop in to take advantage of reduced prices.
The price difference between beachfront and inland property can be huge. In Treasure Cay, the site of this house, inland houses start at $575,000, but it's hard to find a beachfront house that costs less than $3 million, Mr. Pinder said. Even an empty lot on the beach can cost $1.3 million to $1.5 million. This house is priced at $1.895 million. The current owners live outside the Bahamas and are pricing to sell as soon as possible.
Prices in Nassau, the capital, on the island of New Providence, tend to be 25 to 30 percent higher than in Treasure Cay. Mr. Pinder says this is because Nassau is easier to reach from the United States, and because Nassau has more shopping and nightlife than Treasure Cay.
WHO BUYS IN THE BAHAMAS
As many as 80 percent of the Bahamas' buyers are Americans, Mr. Pinder said. In Treasure Cay, most of the homes are owned by Americans, who spend winters there, but Europeans and Canadians are also represented, according to Stan Sawyer, an agent for Damianos Sotheby's International Realty and the listing agent for this property.
BUYING BASICS
There are no restrictions on foreign property ownership in the Bahamas. Foreigners buying property can apply to the Bahamian government for permanent residency status, a move some people make because it may carry significant tax advantages in their home countries, Mr. Sawyer said.
When property changes hands, a stamp tax of 10 percent is levied by the government. The buyer and the seller split this expense, according to Mr. Burdess.
The real estate agent commission, usually 6 percent for houses and 10 percent for undeveloped land, is paid by the seller, Mr. Sawyer said.
Legal fees vary, but Mr. Burdess says the buyer's share is usually about 1.5 percent of the purchase price. He advises foreign buyers in the Bahamas to find a reputable lawyer to help them navigate the process and catch any legal snags with the title.
WEB SITES
The Bahamas government site: www.bahamas.gov.bs
Treasure Cay Beach Resort: treasurecay.com
Abaco Escape: abacoescape.com
LANGUAGES AND CURRENCY
English; dollar (1 Bahamian dollar = $1)
TAXES AND FEES
Property taxes, determined when a house is sold, should be around $15,800 per year for, according to the listing agent. Homeowner association fees of about $120 per year cover maintenance costs for roads and streetlights.
CONTACT
Stan Sawyer, Damianos Sotheby's International Realty, 1-242-577-0298; sirbahamas.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BEACHES (90%); GOLF (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (85%); PRICE CHANGES (84%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANTS (75%); HOME PRICES (69%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (68%); AIRPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHAMAS (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



970 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Deliveries Up, Boeing Beats Forecasts Of Analysts

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
Boeingreported second-quarter earnings on Wednesday that topped analyst estimates, and it raised its profit forecast for the second time this year.
The gains reflected a surge in aircraft deliveries, led by the company's most profitable models, the 777 and the 737. Boeing said it was also starting to build its new 787 Dreamliner jets without having to make changes after the assembly line, avoiding the costly problems that had slowed the product for years.
Analysts said Boeing appeared to be on track this year to pass Airbus as the world's top producer of commercial airplanes. Boeing said Wednesday that it expected to deliver 585 to 600 planes this year. Airbus, which passed Boeing in deliveries in 2003 and has led ever since, has projected its total at 570 this year. 
Boeing said it also benefited from stronger-than-expected results from its military business. Military revenue rose by 7 percent despite tighter military budgets in the United States and other countries.
Robert Stallard, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets, wrote in a note to clients that ''no mistakes'' helped Boeing record the earnings increase, particularly on the commercial aircraft side. He also cited the gains in the military business, where, he wrote, ''expectations have been understandably low.''
Boeing and Airbus are both receiving more orders as airlines seek more fuel-efficient planes and as customers in Asia and the Middle East continue to expand. But both manufacturers have also had difficulty creating new models and building them at a profit.
Over all, the company, based in Chicago, reported that net income rose by 3 percent to $967 million, or $1.27 a share, in the quarter, from $941 million, or $1.25 a share, a year earlier. Analysts surveyed by Bloomberg had, on average, expected a profit of $1.13 a share in the latest period.
Boeing's revenue rose 21 percent to $20 billion in the quarter from $16.5 billion a year earlier.
The company also raised its per-share earnings forecast for all of 2012 to between $4.40 and $4.60, up from an earlier increase in its guidance to $4.15 to $4.35 a share.
It now expects revenue for 2012 of $79.5 billion to $81.5 billion. Its earlier projection was $78 billion to $80 billion.
Boeing's chief executive, W. James McNerney Jr., told analysts that two-thirds of the company's backlog of 4,000 orders for commercial airplanes came from customers outside of the United States and Europe, where other economies are growing faster.
He said Boeing's military unit was also aiming at foreign sales, which could account for up 30 percent of its business within the next several years.
Boeing delivered 150 commercial planes in the second quarter, up 27 percent from 118 a year earlier. The company reiterated that it expected to deliver 70 to 85 of the new 787 Dreamliners and the larger 747-8 aircraft this year, with the total split fairly evenly between the two models.
Lockheed Martin, the nation's largest military contractor, also beat analyst estimates in reporting its second-quarter results this week and raised its profit forecast for 2012.
But other large military contractors reported more mixed results on Wednesday.
Northrop Grumman also raised its profit forecast for the year, but its second-quarter revenue was down 4 percent from a year earlier. General Dynamics approximately matched analyst expectations for the quarter. But it reduced its profit guidance slightly for 2012.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: W. James McNerney Jr. is chief of Boeing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BOYLE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); BUDGETS (73%); AIRLINES (72%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (57%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (92%); BOEING CO (92%); RBC DOMINION SECURITIES INC (55%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (55%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: JAMES MCNERNEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



971 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; AT HOME WITH EMMA KOENIG; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1927 words

HEADLINE: Wash That Blog Out With Soap

BYLINE: By PENELOPE GREEN

 BODY:
GLEN RIDGE, N.J.
AT 24, Emma Koenig has amassed all the accouterments of her generation: an expensive college degree; a string of low-paying (and no-paying) jobs, including coat-check girl, cashier at a sandwich shop and intern at a production company, the drudgery of which was punctuated by a series of degrading pseudo-romantic encounters; and the lease on an overpriced, undersize apartment in the East Village stuffed with a rotating cast of Craigslist roommates, which she eventually gave up to move back in with her parents. She also has a viral blog, a book out next month and a deal pending with a production company to develop a television series.
Oh, to be 20-something and female in the third millennium. Granted, the job market does stink. And the sex is truly demeaning, though not unfamiliar. (What Nora Ephron described in a 1972 review of a grim piece of nonfiction called ''The Girls in the Office'' as the ''rampant masochism'' of modern young women is a plotline that runs from Mary McCarthy to Rona Jaffe, Helen Fielding to Lena Dunham. Why that has not evolved is beyond confounding.) 
And so, to introduce Ms. Koenig, who, like her sisters before her, has been channeling her anomie into a contemporary literary form -- in her case, a Tumblr blog. While its title begins with a common vulgar interjection, it is nonetheless a sweetly dark look at a life stage, something resembling the HBO series ''Girls,'' but defanged a bit. Like the scribbles on a ninth grader's spiral notebook, it is hand drawn, Ms. Koenig's curly feminine printing in speech bubbles and checklists, flow charts and pictograms.
''So, you've moved back in with your parents, huh? How's that going?'' reads a typical entry.
''Well, I've been watching a lot of 'Breaking Bad' in my underwear in my childhood bedroom. I only started two weeks ago and I'm already halfway through season four! So I'm actually being super productive!''
Ms. Koenig was back in that bedroom last week, an attic space with sloping ceilings and wall-to-wall carpeting that displays decorative flourishes from her high school days -- the first 50 pages of ''An American Tragedy'' pinned to the wall above her bed, Hello Kitty stickers, a worn gray Uglydoll -- along with her mother's yoga and meditation gear, as graphic a depiction of a house's transition toward an empty nest as you could hope to find.
But Ms. Koenig was in town only temporarily. She moved out to Los Angeles in January, first subletting a room in a friend's apartment, then moving in with a new boyfriend. Now she was back for an acting job on an MTV pilot.
That's a step up, she noted, from the Web series auditions she used to doggedly attend in the year after she graduated from the drama department at the New York University Tisch School of the Arts. (While in many ways emblematic of her generation, Ms. Koenig is anomalous in one respect: she has very little college debt, having received three scholarships along with a loan.)
Her book, which goes by the same name as the blog and concludes with the words ''I'm in My Twenties,'' will be out next month from Chronicle Books, and will be sold at Urban Outfitters, the 20-something's go-to lifestyle emporium. (Chronicle is the largest publisher of books sold through Urban Outfitters, said Emily Haynes, a senior editor there, and its entertainment division, which is responsible for Ms. Koenig's book, is focused solely on her demographic. Its catalog includes what Ms. Haynes called ''bro publishing,'' meaning books on things like beer pong and farts, and less-gendered offerings, like the ''Pride and Prejudice and Zombies'' calendar, ''The Indie Rock Coloring Book'' and ''How High Am I? A Journal.'')
Chronicle offered Ms. Koenig a book deal and a $10,000 advance last summer after some of the younger editors there became enamored of her blog. It had been enjoying a certain kind of Internet renown for a couple of months, in part because The Huffington Post had included it in one of its regular roundups, ''7 Sites You Should Be Wasting Time On Right Now,'' a procrastinator's guide to blogs like ''Is Ryan Gosling Cuter Than a Puppy?''
In such a culture, Ms. Koenig said, you wonder what it means to be successful. ''Is it making money?'' she asked. ''Is it tons of hits and fans? Is it making work I like or surviving for that week?''
She recalled the confusion on the face of the manager at the East Village sandwich shop where she was working at the time when she told him that she needed a book leave and that she was moving back to her parents' house in New Jersey. ''He was like, 'O.K., whatever,' '' she said.
Ms. Koenig had been pondering the haplessness of her life for some months when she conceived the blog. Her first thought was to make it a zine, but the cost of photocopying was beyond her means, she said, which at the time were exactly zero, as she was working as an unpaid intern and her parents were paying her rent. By May 2011, she had an income of sorts ($9 an hour from the sandwich shop) and she put the blog together, posting a link on her Facebook page, along with the words, ''It begins. ...''
''I didn't want to tell people it was me,'' she said. ''I didn't want to say, 'I started this blog,' which is the lamest thing in the world.''
ON a recent Sunday, Ms. Koenig's parents were home with her. Bobby Bass, her mother, is a psychotherapist. Robin Koenig is a television and film set dresser. Ms. Bass and her daughter are close enough that the hangovers and hookups described in Ms. Koenig's oeuvre came as no surprise.
''I was more concerned about the drinking than the sex,'' Ms. Bass said. ''I hoped there was some poetic license there. I hoped she was exaggerating.''
Ms. Koenig grinned. ''It's all real,'' she said, ''but it goes through a filter. It's not like every day I'm drinking and having sex with strangers.''
The blog's title caused less discomfort, though Mr. Koenig said it used a word he did not use much. ''Bobby is more comfortable with it,'' he said.
''It is a very versatile word,'' Ms. Bass said, adding that she and her husband had been warmed up to it by their son, Ezra Koenig, 28. His band, Vampire Weekend, is an indie favorite, and one of its hits, ''Oxford Comma,'' contains the word in its lyrics.
It was Ezra's success, and his ability to support himself right out of college, that made Ms. Koenig's parents ''almost comfortable,'' as Ms. Bass put it, offering their daughter assistance when she graduated. ''Yes, I would have loved to renovate our kitchen,'' she added. But the rent on Ms. Koenig's apartment was $1,200, and her meager income, when she finally had an income, in no way approached that figure.
Mr. Koenig, 61, and Ms. Bass, 62, remembered their own $100 rents after college in the 1970s, when she lived in a raw loft space in TriBeCa and he rented a room on the Upper West Side.
What has happened since then is no surprise, but the numbers still shock. Consider data compiled by Max Weselcouch, a research analyst at the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy, at this reporter's request. In New York City, from 1970 to 2010 (the most recent year for which data are available), the median rent rose by 75 percent, while the median income remained stagnant (after adjusting for inflation). Further, in 2010, 54 percent of New Yorkers spent over 30 percent of their income on rent, compared with only 28.5 percent of New Yorkers in 1970.
To aid in their decision-making on how much to help their daughter, Ms. Bass made a spreadsheet of all her daughter's friends who were in the performing arts. ''I wanted to see who was making a living, who was making a living in their art and who was being supported by their parents,'' she said. In a graph of 45 young adults, only 3 were getting no help whatsoever, and those 3, Ms. Bass said, were working full time either in a restaurant or baby-sitting, and had limited energy left over to pursue what they had studied.
''It made me see that Emma's social context was such that our helping with her rent was legitimate,'' Ms. Bass said. ''I didn't feel like we were indulging her. I felt like it was a necessary fifth year of college where she had to stabilize herself without the structure and positive feedback of school.''
And Ms. Bass was familiar with the data points surrounding her daughter's generation, otherwise known as ''Generation Screwed,'' as a Newsweek headline announced recently. According to a Pew Study published early this year, employment for 18-to-24-year-olds is at 54 percent, the lowest rate for this age group since 1948, when the government started keeping track. The Pew Study also noted that one in four of all 18-to-34-year-olds said they had moved back in with their parents after having been on their own.
While these are trends that have been brewing for two decades, they are now at their peak, said Meg Jay, a psychologist who treats 20-somethings. Her new book, ''The Defining Decade: Why Your Twenties Matter -- and How to Make the Most of Them Now,'' preaches tough love in a series of cautionary tales against career and relationship drift.
''What's specific to this generation is that these are the most uncertain years they will ever live, and that did not used to be true for that age group,'' Dr. Jay said. ''What's also unique is the new technologies. It's a lot for the 20-something brain to manage all of this information, all of the comparisons in terms of how everybody's life looks on Facebook compared to how their life looks, hanging out on the couch in their sweat pants. 'Why do I only have 314 friends and so-and-so has 1,500?' It's 2 in the morning, and they are not at their emotional best, and maybe three drinks into a Saturday night looking up their ex-boyfriend.''
If depression was the hallmark of the Gen-Xers, she added, ''anxiety belongs to the Millennials.''
''They are worried life isn't going to work,'' she said. ''They have trouble sleeping.''
No wonder Ms. Koenig and her peers are jumpy. Yet Ms. Koenig is sleeping a bit better these days, she said, describing a plot twist in her story that would delight Ms. Ephron. As her blog chugged along last year, she kept track of who was following it. Mostly it was bloggers with names like angelkittylove, she said, but she noticed one proper name, David Seger.
When she posted a podcast late last year, he began following her on Twitter as well. Intrigued, she followed him back. She ''liked'' a video he had made. (Mr. Seger, as it happens, is a Los Angeles-based director and editor.) He direct-messaged her on Twitter, thanking her for following him. He wrote that he liked her blog. She wrote him back. And when she arrived in Los Angeles in January, she invited him to a friend's performance.
''At that point we had exchanged phone numbers and were actually texting,'' she said. ''But the question was, were we networking? Beginning a friendship? An actual relationship?''
Within weeks, Ms. Koenig and Mr. Seger were living together, and even collaborating. Their video, Speed Dating (another Huff Post pick), is a wanly comedic tale of a relationship's near misses. They have been hired to animate Ms. Koenig's drawings for an MTV pilot. He has met her parents.
Ms. Koenig said she is still bemused by the way her career frustration and love-life frustration ''actually helped my career and my love life.'' Now that she has steady work, and her housing is taken care of (her new rent is $500 and she can pay it on her own), she should be feeling less anxious, right?
Wrong. What's terrifying her these days, she said, is driving on the freeway.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: LAUNCHING PAD: Emma Koenig with her mother, Bobby Bass. She is typical of her generation: bad jobs, duds for dates and an assist from her parents, whose house she recently moved out of. (D1)
 THEN AND NOW: Emma Koenig's childhood bedroom retains touches like paper flowers, far left, and pages torn from ''An American Tragedy.'' Above and left, pages from her blog are filled with charts and pictograms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPTY NESTERS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); LITERATURE (75%); WOMEN (74%); YOGA (50%)

COMPANY: CRAIGSLIST INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



972 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: 'Pay-for-Delay' Drug Case Moves Forward

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
Antitrust regulators in the European Union brought their first enforcement action on Wednesday in so-called pay-for-delay drug cases, in which a maker of name-brand drug pays makers of generic ones to keep competing products off the market.
The European Commission told Lundbeck, a Danish drug company, that it thought the company's agreements with generic companies violated antitrust laws by preventing the entry, for as long as two years, of competing generic versions of citalopram. An antidepressant, citalopram is one of Lundbeck's biggest sellers. 
The notice came in a so-called statement of objections, which lays out accusations to which a company can reply; a response can include requesting a formal hearing before the European Commission. Eight other companies that the commission said belonged to the generic groups that entered into the agreements were also named in the complaint.
In a news release, Lundbeck called the charges groundless, and said it thought that its business practices were ''consistent with all relevant national and E.U. competition legislation.''
Mette Carlstedt, a senior vice president for corporate legal matters at Lundbeck, said in the statement that the company's policy was ''to comply with all applicable laws, including competition laws, and this policy is taken very seriously by the company and its employees.''
According to the commission, Lundbeck ''may have caused substantial consumer harm'' with direct payments to the generic drug makers, promises to buy the generic drug stocks for destruction and guaranteeing future profits in a distribution agreement.
The company was able to charge higher prices for its name-brand drug than it would have if generic competitors had been on the market, the commission said, which was possible because of the expiration of certain Lundbeck patents.
The other companies named in the Lundbeck case are Merck of Germany, Generics UK, Arrow, Resolution Chemicals, Xellia Pharmaceuticals, Alpharma, A. L. Industrier and Ranbaxy.
The commission also said it planned to bring charges soon in an investigation of Les Laboratoires Servier over its cardiovascular drug perindopril. The commission said Servier and several generic competitors made deals that hindered the entry of generic forms of the drug into European markets.
European antitrust regulators opened formal investigations of Servier in 2009 and Lundbeck in 2010 after a larger inquiry into competitive practices in the drug business.
In 2009, the commission said its broad investigation of the industry found numerous practices, including pay-for-delay deals, that ''potentially led to distortions of competition and delays to entry of new, innovative as well as cheaper generic medicines into the E.U. market.''
In the United States, the Federal Trade Commission has also investigated numerous pay-for-delay deals among American drug companies, and has charged several with anticompetitive behavior. But the F.T.C. and private plaintiffs have had a harder time convincing higher courts in the United States that the deals should be punished.
This month, for the first time in nearly a decade, a federal appeals court ruled that the payments to keep a generic drug off the market were anticompetitive on their face. Before that ruling, several appeals courts had said that such deals were legal as long as they did not exceed the scope of an unexpired patent on the name-brand drug.
The European Commission also said it was conducting investigations into several American companies, including Cephalon, Teva, Johnson & Johnson, Novartis and Sandoz, for possible violations of competition rules.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENERIC PRODUCTS (92%); GENERIC DRUGS (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (72%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (64%); PATENTS (62%)

COMPANY: LES LABORATOIRES SERVIER (85%); RANBAXY LABORATORIES LTD (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: RANBAXY (NSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (85%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%); DENMARK (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



973 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: Israel's Settlers Are Here to Stay

BYLINE: By DANI DAYAN. 
Dani Dayan is the chairman of the Yesha Council of Jewish Communities in Judea and Samaria.

 BODY:
Maale Shomron, West Bank
WHATEVER word you use to describe Israel's 1967 acquisition of Judea and Samaria -- commonly referred to as the West Bank in these pages -- will not change the historical facts. Arabs called for Israel's annihilation in 1967, and Israel legitimately seized the disputed territories of Judea and Samaria in self-defense. Israel's moral claim to these territories, and the right of Israelis to call them home today, is therefore unassailable. Giving up this land in the name of a hallowed two-state solution would mean rewarding those who've historically sought to destroy Israel, a manifestly immoral outcome.
Of course, just because a policy is morally justified doesn't mean it's wise. However, our four-decade-long settlement endeavor is both. The insertion of an independent Palestinian state between Israel and Jordan would be a recipe for disaster. 
The influx of hundreds of thousands of Palestinian refugees from Syria, Lebanon, Jordan and elsewhere would convert the new state into a hotbed of extremism. And any peace agreement would collapse the moment Hamas inevitably took power by ballot or by gun. Israel would then be forced to recapture the area, only to find a much larger Arab population living there.
Moreover, the Palestinians have repeatedly refused to implement a negotiated two-state solution. The American government and its European allies should abandon this failed formula once and for all and accept that the Jewish residents of Judea and Samaria are not going anywhere.
On the contrary, we aim to expand the existing Jewish settlements in Judea and Samaria, and create new ones. This is not -- as it is often portrayed -- a theological adventure but is rather a combination of inalienable rights and realpolitik.
Even now, and despite the severe constraints imposed by international pressure, more than 350,000 Israelis live in Judea and Samaria. With an annual growth rate of 5 percent, we can expect to reach 400,000 by 2014 -- and that excludes the almost 200,000 Israelis living in Jerusalem's newer neighborhoods. Taking Jerusalem into account, about 1 in every 10 Israeli Jews resides beyond the 1967 border. Approximately 160,000 Jews live in communities outside the settlement blocs that proponents of the two-state solution believe could be easily incorporated into Israel. But uprooting them would be exponentially more difficult than the evacuation of the Gaza Strip's 8,000 settlers in 2005.
The attempts by members of the Israeli left to induce Israelis to abandon their homes in Judea and Samaria by offering them monetary compensation are pathetic. This checkbook policy has failed in the past, as it will in the future. In the areas targeted for evacuation most of us are ideologically motivated and do not live here for economic reasons. Property prices in the area are steep and settlers who want to relocate could sell their property on the free market. But they do not.
Our presence in all of Judea and Samaria -- not just in the so-called settlement blocs -- is an irreversible fact. Trying to stop settlement expansion is futile, and neglecting this fact in diplomatic talks will not change the reality on the ground; it only makes the negotiations more likely to fail.
Given the irreversibility of the huge Israeli civilian presence in Judea and Samaria and continuing Palestinian rejectionism, Western governments must reassess their approach to resolving the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. They should acknowledge that no final-status solution is imminent. And consequently, instead of lamenting that the status quo is not sustainable, the international community should work together with the parties to improve it where possible and make it more viable.
Today, security -- the ultimate precondition for everything -- prevails. Neither Jews nor Palestinians are threatened by en masse eviction; the economies are thriving; a new Palestinian city, Rawabi, is being built north of Ramallah; Jewish communities are growing; checkpoints are being removed; and tourists of all nationalities are again visiting Bethlehem and Shiloh.
While the status quo is not anyone's ideal, it is immeasurably better than any other feasible alternative. And there is room for improvement. Checkpoints are a necessity only if terror exists; otherwise, there should be full freedom of movement. And the fact that the great-grandchildren of the original Palestinian refugees still live in squalid camps after 64 years is a disgrace that should be corrected by improving their living conditions.
Yossi Beilin, a left-wing former Israeli minister, wrote a telling article a few months ago. A veteran American diplomat touring the area had told Mr. Beilin he'd left frightened because he found everyone -- Israel, the Palestinian Authority, Jordan and Saudi Arabia -- content with the current situation. Mr. Beilin finds this widespread satisfaction disturbing, too.
I think it is wonderful news. If the international community relinquished its vain attempts to attain the unattainable two-state solution, and replaced them with intense efforts to improve and maintain the current reality on the ground, it would be even better. The settlements of Judea and Samaria are not the problem -- they are part of the solution.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); HAMAS (78%); HISTORY (77%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); REFUGEES (68%); RELIGION (64%); RELOCATIONS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (92%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); ISRAEL (94%); JORDAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SYRIA (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



974 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; STOCKHOLM JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: In Sweden, Taking File Sharing to Heart. And to Church.

BYLINE: By JOHN TAGLIABUE

 BODY:
STOCKHOLM -- People almost everywhere are file sharing these days, using computers to download music, films, books or other materials, often ignoring copyrights. In Sweden, however, it is a religion. Really.
Even as this Scandinavian country, like other nations across Europe, bows to pressure from big media concerns to stop file sharing, a Swedish government agency this year registered as a bona fide religion a church whose central dogma is that file sharing is sacred.
''For me it is a kind of believing in deeper values than worldly values,'' said Isak Gerson, a philosophy student at Uppsala University who helped found the church in 2010 and bears the title chief missionary. ''You have it in your backbone.''
Kopimism -- the name comes from a Swedish spelling of the words ''copy me'' -- claims more than 8,000 faithful who have signed up on the church's Web site. It has applied for the right to perform marriages and to receive subsidies awarded to religious organizations by the state, and it has bid, thus far unsuccessfully, to buy a church building, even though most church activities are conducted online. 
As regular church attendance drops among the 9.4 million Swedes, the Church of Sweden has been selling off disused churches, but it has not yet responded to the Kopimist bid.
''We have something similar to regular priests,'' said Mr. Gerson, 20, who claims a permanent link to the divine through a Nokia smartphone. ''We call them ops, or operators, and their task is to help people with things like meetings. There are not that many rituals. We are a tolerant community.''
Asked whether he believed in God, Mr. Gerson replied: ''No, I just believe in our values. It's just a belief in holy values.''
The Kopimists rose out of Europe's growing piracy movement, which was born in Sweden about a decade ago. In elections to the European Parliament in 2009, the country's Pirate Party got 7.1 percent of the vote, though in national elections the next year its share plummeted to less than 1 percent.
The movement has spread abroad, to at least nine European countries. In May, Germany's Pirate Party won almost 8 percent of the vote in North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany's most populous state; in Berlin last year, it won 8.9 percent in elections to the state Parliament.
But Kopimists like Mr. Gerson, the son of a Jewish father and a Christian mother, insist that the church does not sully its hands with politics, though they admit that the line between politics and religion can be elusive.
''Look at the United States, in the primaries, the importance of religion, or in the Middle East,'' said Gustav Nipe, another church founder. Mr. Nipe, 23, who studied economics, illustrates the thin line -- he is chairman of both the Kopimist Church and the Pirate Party's youth group.
Mr. Nipe, whose parents are churchgoing Christians, emphasizes with his coreligionists that Kopimism's purpose is not to directly promote illegal file sharing, but rather to focus on the values of sharing information.
''I think we see it as a theological remix,'' Mr. Gerson said. ''Christianity took from Judaism and turned it into something new, and the Muslims did the same. We are part of a tradition.''
The government has no problem with that tradition, as long as its adherents do not break the law.
''It is our responsibility to register religious communities that fulfill certain criteria,'' said Mareta Grondal, an official at the government agency that registered the church. ''We do not look into how communities act in a practical way.''
A religious community is recognized, Ms. Grondal said, if it fulfills certain requirements, like writing a charter and filing it with the agency, electing a governing board and paying an annual fee, now about $70. The Kopimist request for registration was twice refused on technicalities before being granted.
''The government cannot, should not interfere with what people believe in,'' Ms. Grondal said. ''That would be a dangerous path to take.'' But the government has been interfering with what people do of late, and shows few signs of allowing religious freedom to justify copyright infringement.
''More and more file sharers are getting busted, especially within the last year,'' said Anna Troberg, the leader of the Swedish Pirate Party, which has about 8,500 members. ''The big movie companies, the big record companies, want someone to go to trial,'' she said, to act as a deterrent to others. Yet, she said, with an estimated two million Swedes involved in such activity, the odds of someone being successfully prosecuted are small: ''It's easier to get hit by lightning than to go to trial.''
Still, the trend is clear and Europewide, and not even prayer appears able to hold it off. In a disclosure of diplomatic cable traffic published last year by WikiLeaks was a detailed request by the United States Embassy to the Swedish government to stop copyright infringement. A Dutch court in May ordered Internet providers to block the Pirate Bay Web site, which is linked to the Pirate Party, or face large fines, a ruling that will virtually block access to the Sweden-based site for the Dutch. Britain's High Court issued a similar judgment in April.
Mr. Nipe called it a ''kind of an inquisition -- like burning people.''
Ms. Troberg, 38, a former publishing industry executive who has led the Pirates since 2008, is not a Kopimist. ''I'm agnostic,'' she said, adding, however, that the group was ''very interesting.''
Some people ''think they're poking fun at religion, but it raises interesting questions about the issues,'' she said.
Not all Swedes share the Kopimist dogma that information wants to be free, regardless of copyright, yet many welcome the group's fervor in searching for new approaches to information sharing.
''It's important to pay for stuff that you download,'' said Jennifer Hallberg, 32, who just finished an M.B.A. and is now looking for work. If the Kopimists find a way for artists and writers to benefit fairly from their work without downloaders having to pay, she said, ''then they deserve a Nobel Prize.''
Still, Ernie Lagerstrand, 45, who works in marketing, recalled how large crowds protested outside the royal palace of King Carl XVI Gustaf after the government temporarily shut down the Pirate Bay Web site in 2006. ''People were ready to go to jail,'' he said.
He doubted that the Kopimists risked becoming a stalking horse for file thieves. ''It's not just about reading files, it's about ways of sharing information,'' he said, fiddling with a laptop in a coffee shop near the central train station. ''The politicians don't get it; they focus on the legal matters.''
For his part, Mr. Gerson said Kopimism refused to ''draw a line between copying and creativity.''
''Our angle is not to mock religion,'' he said. ''We recall that Christianity and the Gospels, with their collections of little stories, are examples of copying.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Isak Gerson, left, and Gustav Nipe of the newly registered Church of Kopimism, whose central dogma is that file sharing is sacred.
 ''More and more file sharers are getting busted,'' said Anna Troberg of the Swedish Pirate Party, which advocates sharing. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CASPER HEDBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICS (85%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNET AUDIO (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (91%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NORDRHEIN-WESTFALEN, GERMANY (79%) SWEDEN (95%); EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



975 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 374 words

HEADLINE: Amtrak Plans For Upgrades In Bid to Push Faster System

BYLINE: By RON NIXON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Amtrak is promoting a $151 billion expansion plan that includes a major revamping of Union Station in Washington, which was unveiled here Wednesday, as well as the upgrading of its hubs in New York and Boston. The plan represents a bid for federal support to transform the service into a high-speed rail operation. 
Amtrak released its updated ''Next-Generation High-Speed Rail Plan for the Northeast Corridor'' report earlier this month, but financing remains a matter of concern.
The federal government provided money to the railroad through the economic stimulus programs and gave an additional $450 million for a 24-mile stretch of railroad in New Jersey last year after Florida turned down federal money for a high-speed rail project.
Amtrak's president and chief executive, Joseph H. Boardman, said the first thing Amtrak needed to do was get a plan in place. ''We can worry about where the money is coming from, but we need to have a plan in place so when it does, we're ready,'' Mr. Boardman said in an interview this month.
''Look at the $400 million we got last year,'' he said. ''We already had a plan in place, so when it fell in our laps we were ready to go.''
Under the plan, the rail company envisions trains traveling at up to 220 miles per hour, going from Washington to New York in just over an hour and a half and from Washington to Boston in a little more than three hours. Both goals would amount to about half the travel time Amtrak offers now on its fastest trains.
The first step in the upgrade would be the addition of 40 Acela high-speed trains to the Amtrak fleet.
Ridership on Amtrak has grown to record levels in the past five years, and the railroad is responsible for 75 percent of the air-rail passenger traffic along the Northeast Corridor, up from about 37 percent in 2001.
Ridership is expected to climb to 43.5 million riders a year by 2040. The trains, however, are nearing full capacity, and many rail lines, tunnels and stations need to be upgraded or replaced, the railroad said.
Older bridges and parts of the railroad limit speeds that trains can now travel.
At Union Station, the proposal calls for doubling the number of trains the station can hold at one time and adding new platforms and stores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); TRAINS (89%); RAILROAD MAINTENANCE (78%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



976 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: In Meetings, U.S. Presses Beijing on Rights

BYLINE: By REBECCA BERG

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The State Department on Wednesday released its latest sober diagnosis of human rights abuses in China, along with some gentle encouragement to Beijing to do better.
''Our message to the Chinese government is, you've made progress on the economic front,'' Michael H. Posner, the assistant secretary for democracy, human rights and labor, said at a briefing. ''This is the moment to open up the space to allow people to dissent, to question government actions, and to do so without fear of retribution.'' 
Mr. Posner was reporting on the latest session of an annual human rights dialogue with China, which took place this week in Washington and included representatives from American and Chinese government agencies. During the meetings, he said, the State Department addressed China's abuses of free expression on the Internet and in public, its persecution of religious and ethnic minorities, and its inhumane labor practices, among other human rights issues. For their part, Chinese officials raised concerns about the United States' record on human rights, particularly in areas of discrimination and prison conditions.
''The point that we made, which I feel very confident and proud to make, is that we have human rights issues in the United States, but we also have a very strong system to respond to them,'' Mr. Posner said, citing access to legal representation for all citizens, a free press and a ''robust'' culture of political engagement.
The meetings took place about two months after the arrival in New York of Chen Guangcheng, the Chinese dissident who sought refuge at the American Embassy in Beijing, setting off frenzied negotiations with the Chinese, who finally allowed him to leave the country after he left the embassy to be treated at a Beijing hospital.
Mr. Posner said the United States continued to push China to allow legal representation for members of Mr. Chen's family, including his nephew, who has been arrested and charged with voluntary manslaughter.
''A number of his lawyers who the family have reached out to have tried to meet with him, tried to represent him actively, and been denied access,'' Mr. Posner said of Mr. Chen's nephew. ''We raise those concerns openly. We will continue to raise those concerns.''
Critics say that merely raising concerns with the Chinese government, as the United States does in this dialogue each year, is an exercise in diplomatic futility. The State Department insists that the discussions are one facet of a larger strategy.
Lorne W. Craner, who served in Mr. Posner's job under President George W. Bush, said he decided to discontinue the annual meetings when he felt that China was no longer receptive to criticism from the United States government. The meetings were revived in 2008, but Mr. Craner said that China's diminishing regard for the United States remained a fundamental problem undermining discussions of this nature. ''I was there at a very different time,'' he said. ''I think it's tougher now.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); ETHNICITY (75%); ETHNIC GROUPS (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (64%); LAWYERS (63%); MANSLAUGHTER (61%); ARRESTS (61%); VOLUNTARY MANSLAUGHTER (61%); RELIGION (53%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (92%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



977 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Back to the '60s (and Fringe) in Brazil

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
ITAMONTE, Brazil
NOT long ago, Bill Morgan, the founder of North Beach Leathers, had a dream about Carlos Santana. In the dream, Mr. Santana, the guitarist, was wearing a fabulous snakeskin and black chamois jumpsuit, courtesy of Mr. Morgan.
''I can't wait to make it,'' Mr. Morgan said recently.
Never mind that North Beach Leathers has been defunct since 2002. If all goes according to plan, the man whose gloriously groovy leather designs once graced the bodies of Jimi, Janis and Jerry (not to mention Jackie, O. J., Mick, Bo, Cher and Elvis) will be selling his sheepskin coats, fringe jackets, leather pants, suede bikinis and itty-bitty dresses once again.
But instead of reopening in, say, San Francisco or Brooklyn, Mr. Morgan is setting up both a virtual store and a bricks-and-mortar one in the mountains of Brazil, in this tiny village midway between Rio de Janeiro and Sao Paulo. 
''There is a great opportunity in the next four years to create a brand that encapsulates the ideals and energy of the '60s,'' said Mr. Morgan, who is 74 but looks a decade younger thanks, perhaps, to daily two-hour walks and a boyish glint in his eye. ''We certainly have the story, and it seems to be really resonating with the young people of Brazil. We are hoping that this will be the case for China, India and the rest of the world.''
It is a bit of deja vu for Mr. Morgan, a former world-class runner who first visited Brazil in 1964 to compete in the Corrida de Sao Silvestre, a 100-year-old race. He fell in love with the country, moved to the Copacabana neighborhood of Rio de Janeiro, and began importing and exporting handicrafts. Along the way, he stumbled upon a tannery that manufactured cowhide, and shipped some back to the United States.
''Little did I know that purchase of leather would be one of the most significant acts of my life,'' he said.
He had planned to stay in Brazil indefinitely, but one morning he picked up a copy of Life magazine that featured a photo of the first ''be-in'' in Golden Gate Park.
''I had to go back and be part of the scene,'' he said.
So in the late '60s he returned to San Francisco, his hometown, and with a friend, Michael Hoban, began peddling women's dresses from a little shop on Upper Grant Avenue, with modest success. Then a girlfriend found some split cowhide he had gotten in Brazil and transformed it into a double-breasted Edwardian knee-length coat. She placed it in the shop window; it sold within the hour.
Soon, the clothes of North Beach Leathers were the ''it'' threads for up-and-coming musicians and artists. A young Tina Turner bought a skimpy deerskin halter dress with flowers burned into it. Duane Allman fell in love with a tan deerskin shirt with a motif of a forest and a mountain stream running down the side. He bought it off Mr. Morgan's back for $400 -- and was buried in it shortly thereafter.
''Boy, they would clean my card out,'' his brother, Gregg Allman, wrote in an e-mail through his manager, Michael Lehman.
Within a few years North Beach Leathers had opened an outpost in Hollywood. Jimi Hendrix bought a fringe jacket similar to the one he immortalized at Woodstock, along with a patchwork shirt. And one afternoon the company got a request from Priscilla Presley, who ordered eight white, painted, hand-laced deerskin suits for her husband, Elvis. He also bought a rainbow fringe jacket that later sold at auction for $9,000.
''The store was loaded with stuff you didn't see anywhere, like a sweater made out of leather,'' recalled the musician George Benson, who owned three North Beach vests -- ''So my arms could breathe,'' he said. ''The aromas in there were incredible -- you knew you were dealing with real leather.''
By the 1980s, North Beach Leathers was earning $25 million annually, and its clientele expanded to include Jacqueline Onassis, Ted Turner, Wolfgang Puck and Eddie Murphy. Models like Christy Turlington, Paulina Porizkova and Cindy Crawford, plus a pretty South African actress named Charlize Theron, graced the pages of the company's catalog. Within a decade, Mr. Morgan had 15 stores worldwide.
''We had flair; we had charisma,'' said Cydne Pieri, who was a store manager and held other positions at the company for more than 30 years. ''We networked heavily, but at that time you wouldn't have called it networking. We were out and about, and we were all so personable that everybody loved us. The clothing was a piece of art, and everybody that was anybody wanted to wear North Beach Leathers.''
But charisma does not pay bills, and the company went bankrupt in 2002, the result of both an economic downturn and ''the transformation of the business from a family operation to a corporate type of affair with C.E.O.'s, bean counters, and so on,'' Mr. Morgan said.
So he went fishing in Northern California, and then moved back to Brazil, where he wrote and self-published a memoir, ''North Beach Leathers: Tailors to the Stars.'' Though he continued to design and make specialty leather garments, he had no plans to restart the company.
Then he ran into Forest Sprague, an old American pal who was running an inn in Itamonte, the Estancia Rio Acima, with his Brazilian wife, Marcia Bichara. Mr. Sprague, 60, recalled that his wife felt sorry for Mr. Morgan, ''thinking he was lonely and by himself, and she invited him to come and stay with us for carnival.'' Mr. Sprague began reading Mr. Morgan's book and realized ''that he had an iconic story to tell.'' He also encouraged him to think about restarting the company.
Mr. Morgan was hesitant at first, but then reasoned that Brazil might be a good commercial base, since both the FIFA World Cup (2014) and Olympics (2016) will be held there. Also, a high-altitude Olympic training center is being developed near Itamonte, which is in Minas Gerais state. (The town, an expatriate haven, is in the running to be a rock-climbing venue during the Olympics.)
And so he took a spartan room in the back of a yoga studio at the inn that doubled as a makeshift work space. He hired local sewers, and began work on the Itamonte Collection of soft, lightweight chamois: ideal for the mild climate of Brazil.
A few months ago, Mr. Morgan and Mr. Sprague opened the Crazy Horse Saloon, a boutique, studio and cafe just outside downtown Itamonte that holds jam sessions on Friday nights. Mr. Morgan is offering several original ''Rock and Roll'' pieces, along with some vintage North Beach classics. He also plans on doing a few replicas: the Jimi Hendrix ''Woodstock Shirt''; the Elvis ''Rainbow Fringe'' jacket; and the Bo Derek cover-of-Playboy bikini.
''Forest and I are not spring chickens, but with Brazil booming and very little exciting leather fashions here, the brass ring seems to be swinging my way for one last shot,'' Mr. Morgan said. ''I am a bit shellshocked to see how fast things are moving here almost by themselves.''
Both he and his new business partner compared the current energy in Brazil to the counterculture of the '60s and '70s in the United States.
''I can't believe how much it feels like the early '60s here,'' Mr. Sprague said. ''But with computers.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: GROOVY: Top, Bill Morgan, the founder of North Beach Leathers, in his studio in Brazil. He has restarted the company, which closed in 2002. Above left, Jimi Hendrix wearing leather fringe at Woodstock in 1969. Above right and below left, new looks from the company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARRY Z. LEVINE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEATHER TANNING & FINISHING (78%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (77%); RETAILERS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (69%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (69%); INTERNET RETAILING (68%); RUNNING (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (90%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (90%); CHINA (69%); INDIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



978 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1267 words

HEADLINE: Soccer Is Welcome At Home of Sox

BYLINE: By GEORGE VECSEY. 
E-mail: geovec@nytimes.com

 BODY:
BOSTON
There was the Green Monster and there was the Pesky Pole and there was the cubbyhole in the scoreboard where Manny Ramirez used to coop when he got bored, and probably still does, for all we know.
It's still Fenway Park, no matter what rectangular sidelines are laid down, no matter what kind of no-hands high jinks are performed on the makeshift field.
Football at Fenway. That's what the organizers called Wednesday's summer exhibition in which A.S. Roma defeated Liverpool, 2-1, with Michael Bradley of the United States scoring the first goal. Whatever name it goes by, the sport is not a threat to hallowed places like Fenway Park, where the Splendid Splinter used to hit and glower.
However, one of the nice things about this dynamic nation is that there is always room for the next wave. Outside Fenway four hours before the game, Niall O'Brien, 9, was wearing a Gerrard 8 jersey, and his brother, Liam, 11, was wearing a red Liverpool jersey. Their dad, Tony O'Brien, born in Dublin and long a resident of Guilford, Conn., has already taken them for the pilgrimage to Anfield, the fabled home of Liverpool. The boys were all set to sing ''You'll Never Walk Alone,'' the Liverpool anthem. 
''Everybody here will know the words,'' Niall O'Brien predicted. The family had spent over $250 on this day trip in order to make the old park rock with ''You'll Never Walk Alone'' rather than ''Sweet Caroline,'' as is done 81 times a baseball season.
The most common jerseys in this crowd were honoring No. 8, Steven Gerrard of Liverpool, and No. 10, Francesco Totti, the hometown lifer of Roma. Totti was in the starting lineup but Gerrard never got into the match.
On this same lovely summer evening, Major League Soccer, being grown slowly and smartly across the continent, was holding its all-star game outside Philadelphia against touring Chelsea, winner of the Champions League final only two months ago.
These matches are fast becoming a midsummer ritual, the old Grand Tour of Europe in reverse. The multilingual goalie Peter Cech of the Czech Republic and Chelsea is in our midst. The preening coach Jose Mourinho and Real Madrid are coming to Yankee Stadium on Aug. 8 to play A.C. Milan.
The fans in the United States are not rubes, coming to gawk at high-power squads taking their first tentative midsummer training in public. The world is not what it used to be.
When that wonderful 1992 book by Nick Hornby, ''Fever Pitch,'' was reworked for American film audiences in 2005, it was unnaturally converted into a drama about a Red Sox zealot, and it fell flat. Less than a decade later, Americans could now handle a movie about Arsenal angst.
As part of the globalization of American interests, the Fenway Sports Group, which owns the Red Sox, has purchased Liverpool and eagerly arranged for Wednesday's match with Roma, itself owned by Americans -- Tom DiBenedetto and James Pallotta as well as the Boston Celtics' Kevin Garnett.
''These exhibitions are huge outside of the United States and have been for some time,'' John Henry, the principal owner of the Fenway group, wrote in an e-mail early this week. ''What seems to be different is the level of interest in America for these matches. This has grown significantly.''
Henry explained the financial appeal of summer soccer: ''We know we have a large fan base in America -- that is the reason for coming to America. Last year we were in Asia. If you include Malaysia and Indonesia, the fan bases there are enormous. We held a practice that drew almost 40,000 last summer and 84,000 for an exhibition match in Malaysia.''
Could Henry imagine North America as the site of official matches involving the best clubs in Europe or Latin America? Or, for that matter, could he envision a European league placing a franchise on the East Coast of the United States, or a Mexican league team being placed in Texas or California?
Henry recalled ''some discussion some time ago'' about placing league matches in the United States, but added, ''I don't think there was any appetite for such.''
The Fenway owner added: ''We have several major sports here that are ingrained and solid. But how much it will grow here? I would say the approach to and through media will play the major role in determining soccer's success in America.''
Henry was just happy putting two major clubs in Fenway, with nice touches like putting up two faux brick pillars with a steel gate connecting them, bearing the words ''You'll Never Walk Alone.'' People in Roma gear and Liverpool gear took pictures under the grillwork.
''It's a historic club playing in a historic venue against another historic club,'' Henry added. ''While it's purely an exhibition, it's still something very special.''
To be truthful, there is a temporary feel to midsummer matches when the new sod is squatting on dirt basepaths and home plate and the first-base line are left uncovered, no doubt wondering what happened to the rest of the infield.
It is also hard to take a midsummer soccer match seriously when the lads have just come back from those brief vacations from a sport that grinds bodies and minds down to nubs. In the Bronx, Chelsea looked like strangers who needed Hello I Am buttons to introduce themselves.
Everybody knew the two new coaches of Liverpool and Roma were going to use swarms of players, but still, in the midst of a recession, tickets were going for an average of $110, with seats atop the scoreboard going for more than $400 and standing room at $70, according to SeatGeek, the Web ticket service.
One major attraction was Roma's new midfielder, Bradley, 24, just about the best American player in the 2010 World Cup in South Africa. He moved up to Chievo of Verona last year and was recently snapped up by Roma, even higher on the pecking order.
His normal intense work rate paid off Wednesday as he broke through for a 15-yard angled goal in the 63rd minute. Alessando Florenzi scored in the 69th minute for Roma, and Charlie Adam scored in the 80th minute for Liverpool.
Bradley, whose father, Bob, was the American coach and now coaches Egypt, is the highest-placed American player in history, inasmuch as great expats of the current Friedel-Howard-Donovan-Dempsey generation have not quite reached Champions League level, which is the expectation for Roma. Bradley's ascent is just one more sign that soccer is reaching critical mass in the United States even if the Yanks have their troubles in the World Cup.
Sunil Gulati, president of the United States Soccer Federation, speaks about ''signals'' of soccer's incremental rise: the large number of crowds over 50,000 for these midsummer matches; the American television networks, English and Spanish, now presenting international soccer; the rising ratings for the 2010 World Cup and the recent European tournament on ESPN; the placing by Fox of several vital Premier League matches and the Champions League final on the main network rather than its soccer outlet; and the large turnout of American fans for the 2010 World Cup in South Africa.
''We had more ticket buyers than any other country,'' Gulati said Tuesday in a telephone interview. Gulati suggested that the N.B.A. would have a franchise based in Europe well before a European soccer team is based in the United States.
It is all a work in progress. But the summer tour is here to stay, with Italian being spoken in the M.T.A. train and fans in red jerseys marched en masse from a pub, with accompanying bagpipes.
American children wore Gerrard 8 and Totti 10 jerseys, knowing exactly who those people are, as familiar if they were Yaz and Papi themselves. The new wave.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A.S. Roma and Liverpool played an exhibition, with Fenway's Green Monster as a backdrop. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JARED WICKERHAM/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ATHLETES (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); MULTILINGUALISM (60%)

COMPANY: A S ROMA SPA (58%)

TICKER: ASR (BIT) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711211 SPORTS TEAMS & CLUBS (58%); SIC7941 PROFESSIONAL SPORTS CLUBS & PROMOTERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND (94%); BOSTON, MA, USA (74%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (94%); EUROPE (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



979 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 649 words

HEADLINE: N.Y.U.'s Plan To Expand Is Approved By Council

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
As opponents shouted ''Shame!'' from a City Council balcony, New York University won final approval on Wednesday for a huge expansion plan that will change the look and feel of Greenwich Village more than almost any other project in decades.
By an overwhelming 44-to-1 vote, the Council approved a series of zoning amendments, permits and map changes that will allow the university to erect four buildings that together will add a skyscraper's worth of classrooms, dorm rooms and office space to a leafy 12-block parcel occupied by two university apartment complexes -- Washington Square Village and Silver Towers -- south of Washington Square Park. 
Council Speaker Christine C. Quinn applauded the new plan in remarks before the vote, saying that while she understood residents' concerns, ''I think this plan appropriately balances the need of an important university to grow and expand -- which is good for our city -- with the historic neighborhood it's in.''
As the Council started its session with ceremonies and proclamations unrelated to the expansion plan, 50 of the plan's opponents -- faculty members critical of it, residents of the apartment complexes, and neighborhood activists -- glared down silently from the balcony overlooking the Council chamber while holding yellow signs saying: ''NYU 2031 Wrong for NYC. Wrong for the Village. Wrong for NYU.''
When the vote on the expansion neared, several opponents shouted out ''Shame'' and other expressions and, after warnings, sergeants-at-arms cleared the balcony.
The opponents headed out to hold a news conference on the steps of City Hall, where they argued that the plan would do irreparable harm to the charm and low-rise character of the Village by overwhelming it with bulky structures and thousands more students and workers.
''It's a very sad day for Greenwich Village,'' said Terri Cude, co-chairwoman of the Community Action Alliance on N.Y.U. 2031.
But John Sexton, the college's president, celebrated the action in a statement calling the vote a ''great day for N.Y.U. and for New York City,'' one that he said would lead to thousands of construction jobs and permanent university positions when other sectors of the city's economy have been shrinking. Work is not to begin until 2014.
''It is a plan that strikes an important balance: permitting N.Y.U. to maintain academic excellence by meeting our educational- and research-space needs on our existing footprint over the next two decades, while at the same time addressing the concerns of our neighbors on such issues as improving access to open space,'' the statement said.
The university, which has 50,000 students and 17,500 employees, contends that it needs new classrooms and dormitories to accommodate a steadily burgeoning enrollment and to allow it to compete with other prominent universities. If the university could not build in the proposed footprint, officials said, it would have had to continue buying up, tearing down or converting neighborhood buildings, which would further damage the bohemian and raffish charm of the South Village.
Many residents of the apartment complexes -- 40 percent of the university's full-time faculty members live in the two complexes -- dread the noise, dust and disruption of 20 years of construction and worry about a loss of trees and strips of parkland. Neighborhood activists said the university could have met its space needs by expanding to empty office space in the Wall Street area or Downtown Brooklyn.
The plan was whittled down, first by the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer, then by the City Planning Commission and then by Margaret Chin, the councilwoman who represents the area, from a proposal that would have added an Empire State Building's worth of floor space in between the seven buildings that make up the apartment complexes. Ms. Chin said the final plan was 26 percent slimmer than the original.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CITIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); ZONING (78%); COMMUNITY ACTIVISM (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



980 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1532 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Automotive Pain

BYLINE: By JACK EWING and BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
FRANKFURT -- For European carmakers, the day of reckoning may finally be at hand.
The most dreadful year for car sales in more than a decade may require the industry to deal with the overstaffed, underused factories that have been undermining earnings for years.
As the region's weak economies keep many European car buyers away from showrooms, analysts say the unprofitable automakers have no choice but to start closing production lines and cutting payrolls. For the weakest, like General Motors' Opel unit and PSA Peugeot Citroen, their survival may depend on it.
The question is whether any of the companies can do it fast enough -- or at all -- in the face of restrictive European labor laws and stubborn political resistance to cutbacks.
''I've never seen it this bad,'' Sergio Marchionne, chief executive of both Chrysler and the Italian automaker Fiat, said during an interview. ''All the unresolved issues that have been plaguing the industry for a number of years have all come forward.'' 
Fresh evidence came Wednesday in quarterly earnings from Ford and Peugeot, which both reported huge losses and are each on track to lose more than $1 billion in Europe this year. Later in the day, the ratings agencies Fitch and Standard & Poor's both lowered Peugeot's debt by a notch, placing it deeper into ''junk'' territory.
Huge overcapacity, some auto executives say, has spawned a crisis similar to the one the U.S. industry barely survived just a few years ago. In fact, the downturn in Europe threatens the remarkably rapid recoveries that Ford and General Motors were able to make after Detroit's moment of truth in 2009.
Underused plants are ruinous for car companies, which must continue to pay upkeep costs and make payroll even as revenue plunges. By some estimates, the European industry as a whole is operating at only about 60 percent to 65 percent of capacity. As a general rule, plants must operate at about 75 percent or 80 percent to be profitable, analysts say.
The figures may be much worse for some factories, including Fiat plants in Italy, analysts said. At the same time, German luxury carmakers like BMW and Mercedes continue to thrive and are operating at or near capacity.
Few business undertakings are more tortuous than closing a European car factory. Peugeot braved howls from unions and the new Socialist government of Francois Hollande this month when it said that it would close a plant in Aulnay, outside Paris, in hopes of stemming losses that reached 819 million, or $993 million, in the first half of this year.
Closing a plant typically requires a long and costly battle with unions, which have more legal rights than in the United States. German law, for example, requires companies to negotiate job cuts with worker representatives, who can demand large severance payments or pensions.
In an effort avoid a confrontation with labor, Peugeot has promised to convert its plant in Aulnay, which employs 3,000 people, to other, unspecified manufacturing. The company also promised to help employees find new jobs after car production ends in 2014.
But such measures add to the cost at a time when Peugeot is hemorrhaging money. And the compromises have not prevented political leaders from pushing the company to scale back plans to cut a total of 8,000 jobs in France, or dissuaded workers from protesting outside the company's Paris headquarters on Wednesday.
Even after four years of catastrophic sales, only a few of Europe's 100 or so auto plants have shut down. The closures include an Opel factory in Antwerp and a Fiat plant in Sicily.
''It's a question of who has the stomach for the fight,'' said Tim Urquhart, an analyst at IHS Automotive.
But with the European car industry on track to suffer its worst year since 1996, more closings seem unavoidable. About 12.4 million vehicles will be sold in the European Union this year, according to industry estimates. That is 3 million less than in 2007.
The car industry provides one of the most vivid examples of how the euro zone debt crisis is infecting companies outside the financial industry.
There are some disturbing parallels. In both cases, the pain falls disproportionately on Southern Europe, while Germany seems immune. Car sales actually rose slightly in Germany during the first six months of the year. They plunged more than 14 percent in France and almost 20 percent in Italy, which is in recession.
In Portugal and Greece, which have both required European bailouts and are enduring severe economic downturns, car sales fell more than 40 percent through June, according to the European Automobile Manufacturers' Association.
There are also unfortunate parallels in policy makers' response to the problem.
When the financial crisis caused a recession in 2009, France and other European countries spent billions of euros to bail out their car companies. But instead of using that money to ease painful downsizing of plants and payrolls, governments provided financial incentives for people to trade in older models for new ones, or subsidized worker salaries to dissuade companies from cutting jobs.
That approach foreshadowed Europe's reaction to the euro crisis -- stopgap measures that postpone the hard decisions. But now that muddling through is no longer an option, European governments are financially ill-equipped to respond.
Mr. Marchionne, of Chrysler and Fiat, has repeatedly called for the European Commission in Brussels to step in.
''What they should do is coordinate a rationalization of the industry across the producing companies,'' he said in an interview on Tuesday.
''The ones that really have not acted on this are the French and the Germans, who have not taken out any capacity at all,'' he said. ''Everybody should take haircuts.''
Mr. Marchionne and other auto executives also complain that European leaders have undermined their sales through a free trade agreement with South Korea that has allowed Hyundai and Kia to gain significant market share.
In this crisis, as in the euro currency debacle, the problems lie largely outside Germany. BMW and Daimler remain profitable in part because they are taking market share from the other manufacturers by offering luxury at a middle-class price.
Daimler, based in Stuttgart, on Wednesday reported a profit of 1.5 billion for the second quarter. That was down from 1.7 billion a year earlier. But sales of its Mercedes cars rose 4 percent, with the growth coming mostly from the United States and Asia.
If anything, some German carmakers have too little production capacity, an indication that the problem for some companies is inferior cars, rather than simply a declining market.
Daimler said Tuesday that it would farm out some production of its newly redesigned Mercedes A-Class to Valmet Automotive, a Finnish company, to meet strong demand. The A-Class, a sporty compact, starts at about 24,000 in Germany. That is about 7,000 more than an entry-level Ford Focus, but many buyers are willing to pay the premium for the prestige of a Mercedes.
Volkswagen, which will report its second-quarter results Thursday, is the largest carmaker in Europe and has been able to keep costs down by sharing parts and development among a huge stable of brands, ranging from low-end Skodas to luxury Audis. Analysts expect the company to report that quarterly profit rose slightly to 3.2 billion, according to a Reuters poll.
Mr. Marchionne and other auto executives accuse Volkswagen of exploiting the crisis to gain market share by offering aggressive discounts. ''It's a bloodbath of pricing and it's a bloodbath on margins,'' he said.
Volkswagen declined to comment, saying it would answer questions about its business during a conference call with analysts on Thursday.
In another echo of the euro zone's financial crisis, the carmakers that are traditionally strong in southern Europe are the ones suffering the most, especially Fiat and Peugeot. Job losses at those companies would only further exaggerate unemployment, reduce tax revenues and make it that much more difficult for Italy, in particular, to wrestle down its government debt.
Ford and General Motors' Opel unit, which are both based in Germany and primarily serve the middle market, have also been battered.
G.M. has not made an annual profit on its European operations for more than a decade, and the company's leaders are under pressure by investors to either fix the business or get out of it.
G.M. recently removed both the chief executive and chief financial officer of its Opel unit. People familiar with the situation said G.M. is also preparing for deep cuts in its salaried work force in Europe as the first step in a larger effort to stem its losses. Opel, which operates under the Vauxhall brand in Britain, is expected to close an aging plant in Bochum, Germany, after 2016.
But while Opel has been a chronic problem for G.M., Ford of Europe was profitable until recently.
''Ford has run a pretty tight ship,'' said Arthur Maher, an analyst at LMC Automotive, a market research firm. ''Ford is really being hit by what's happening in the broader European market.''
Bill Vlasic reported from Detroit.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A protest in Paris Wednesday against closing a Peugeot Citroen plant in Aulnay, near the company's headquarters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GONZALO FUENTES/REUTERS) (B1)
Security officers at the headquarters of Peugeot Citroen during a protest in Paris on Wednesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JACQUES BRINON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B4) CHART: European Car Sales Decline: About 12.4 million vehicles will be sold in the European Union this year. That is three million fewer than in 2007. (Sources: European Automobile Manufacturers' Association
 European Commission) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMAKERS (91%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (66%); SEVERANCE PAY (62%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (54%)

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (86%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (59%)

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); UG (PAR) (86%); GM (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (86%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%)

PERSON: SERGIO MARCHIONNE (55%); FRANCOIS HOLLANDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



981 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1303 words

HEADLINE: Medicaid Expansion May Lower Death Rates, Study Says

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK

 BODY:
Into the maelstrom of debate over whether Medicaid should cover more people comes a new study by Harvard researchers who found that when states expanded their Medicaid programs and gave more poor people health insurance, fewer people died.
The study, published online Wednesday in The New England Journal of Medicine, comes as states are deciding whether to expand Medicaid by 2014 under the Affordable Care Act, the Obama administration's health care law. The Supreme Court ruling on the law last month effectively gave states the option of accepting or rejecting an expansion of Medicaid that had been expected to add 17 million people to the program's rolls.
Medicaid expansions are controversial, not just because they cost states money, but also because some critics, primarily conservatives, contend the program does not improve the health of recipients and may even be associated with worse health. Attempts to research that issue have encountered the vexing problem of how to compare people who sign up for Medicaid with those who are eligible but remain uninsured. People who choose to enroll may be sicker, or they may be healthier and simply be more motivated to see doctors. 
The New England Journal study reflects a recent effort by researchers to get around that problem and allow policy makers to make ''evidence-based decisions,'' said Katherine Baicker, an investigator on the study who served on former President George W. Bush's Council of Economic Advisers.
''I think it's a very significant study in part because of the paucity of studies that have really looked at health outcomes of insurance coverage,'' said Karen Davis, the president of the Commonwealth Fund, a nonpartisan research foundation. ''Actual mortality studies are few and far between. This is a well-done study: timely, adds to the evidence base, and certainly should raise concern about the failure to expand Medicaid coverage to people most at risk of not getting the care that they need.''
The study, conducted by researchers from Harvard's School of Public Health, analyzed data from three states that had expanded their programs in the last decade to cover a population not normally eligible for Medicaid: low-income adults without children or disabilities. The new law also expands coverage to a similar population nationally.
Researchers looked at mortality rates in those states -- New York, Maine and Arizona -- five years before and after the Medicaid expansions, and compared them with those in four neighboring states -- Pennsylvania, Nevada, New Mexico and New Hampshire -- that did not put such expansions in place.
The number of deaths for people age 20 to 64 -- adults too young to be considered elderly by the researchers -- decreased in the three states with expanded coverage by about 1,500 combined per year, after adjusting for population growth in those states, said Dr. Benjamin D. Sommers, a physician and an assistant professor of health policy and economics who was an author of the study.
In the five years before the expansion, there were about 46,400 deaths per year, while in the five years after the expansion, there were about 44,900 deaths per year. During the same period, death rates in the four comparison states increased, said Dr. Sommers, who began a yearlong stint as an adviser to the federal Department of Health and Human Services after research for the study was completed, but before its publication.
When researchers adjusted the data for economic factors like income and unemployment rates and population characteristics like age, sex and race, and then compared those numbers with neighboring states, they estimated that the Medicaid expansions were associated with a decline of 6.1 percent in deaths, or about 2,840 per year for every 500,000 adults added.
While the data included all deaths, not just deaths of Medicaid recipients, the decline in mortality was greatest among nonwhites and people living in poorer counties, groups most affected by expanded Medicaid coverage.
''I can't tell you for sure that this is a cause-and-effect relationship,'' that the Medicaid expansion caused fewer non-elderly adults to die, Dr. Sommers said. ''I can tell you we did everything we could to rule out alternative explanations.''
Several experts with varying views on the Affordable Care Act said the study, which was completed long before the Supreme Court hearings on the law, was conducted by highly qualified researchers who carefully analyzed the available data. Still, they and the study's authors pointed to limitations in the data, noting that the mortality figures represent county-level statistics, not individual deaths.
''They are trying really hard with the data that they have available, but at the end of the day it doesn't really compensate for the fact that you don't have the data you want, which is individual mortality rates and what happens to people with change in coverage over time,'' said Gail Wilensky, a health economist who headed Medicare and Medicaid during the administration of the elder President George Bush. In addition, when the researchers looked individually at each of the three states, the only state with a statistically significant decline was in the largest state, New York, and she questioned whether every state would have the same experience.
Douglas Holtz-Eakin, president of the American Action Forum, a Republican-oriented group, said the study was ''well done'' and ''brings more evidence in about the benefit side'' of Medicaid, but he wondered if the results could be generalized. The three states studied voluntarily expanded their Medicaid programs, presumably confident they could pay for the expansion, and had enough doctors accepting Medicaid to treat additional beneficiaries. Other states may be less able to afford it, he said, and it is possible that ''having a piece of paper that says you're on Medicaid doesn't do any good because they can't see anybody.''
Nonetheless, experts said, the results support those of another Medicaid study being conducted by some of the same researchers in Oregon. Oregon expanded its Medicaid program in 2008, but, without money to cover everyone at first, chose 10,000 people by lottery. Dr. Baicker and her colleagues, comparing those who got Medicaid with those who did not, have so far found that Medicaid recipients see doctors more often, and report better health and better financial stability.
The New England Journal study, published online several weeks before the print edition because of its relevance to the current debate, also found that people added to Medicaid in the three states reported better health and were less likely to delay getting care.
While the data did not describe specific causes of death, researchers found declines in two broad categories of deaths -- those caused by disease and those caused by accidents, injuries and drug abuse, possibly suggesting that even accident victims may get or seek more extensive care if they are insured.
''So often you hear, 'Oh well, poor people just shoot each other, and that's why they have higher mortality rates,' '' said Diane Rowland, executive vice president of the Kaiser Family Foundation, a nonprofit group. ''In the midst of many claims about what Medicaid does and doesn't do, it actually shows that it cannot only be beneficial for health, but in preventing some of the premature deaths of the uninsured.''
Janet M. Currie, director of the Center for Health and Well-Being at Princeton, said the new study, combined with the Oregon research, should help transform the Medicaid debate into one about dollars, rather than over whether covering poor people improves health.
''This says, well there is benefit to giving people insurance,'' Dr. Currie said. ''Maybe you don't want to pay the cost, but you can't say there's no benefit.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Clinics like this one in San Juan, Tex., see a large number of patients who rely on Medicaid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (92%); MEDICAID (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (89%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EVIDENCE BASED MEDICINE (77%); HEALTH CARE (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (68%); CHILDREN (66%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND JOURNAL OF MEDICINE (58%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



982 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 331 words

HEADLINE: Misfits in Love Are Upbeat But Down on Their Luck

BYLINE: By ANDY WEBSTER

 BODY:
You'd be hard pressed this summer to find as coolly effervescent a stage tonic as ''I Bob,'' the latest production from the Parallel Exit troupe, now at the Joyce SoHo. 
This live-action cartoon, directed by Mark Lonergan and choreographed by Ray Hesselink to music by Wayne Barker, pulls together the Parallel Exit signatures (tap and other dancing; grunts, coos, shrieks and other nonverbal sounds; puppetry; tirelessly inventive physical humor) to create a kind of exuberant ensemble vaudeville. The movement doesn't let up, but the tempo is playful and breezy, and the performers make it look easy.
And what performers. Ryan Kasprzak is Bob, a sprightly laborer for the FedUp delivery service who wakes up to Rube Goldberg-style contraptions that help with his morning ablutions. Bob may have trouble keeping his affairs straight and may err while rescuing a cat in a tree, but he's a noble, well-meaning innocent. Kelly Sheehan plays Vera, a dowdy, lovelorn bachelorette working in the Statue of Liberty.
Of course these characters are going to find each other -- even in a contemporary Manhattan enduring an economic depression -- but first they have to elude the schemes of the perfidious land magnate Libby T. Grump (Shereen Hickman, as an inspired amalgam of Cruella de Vil, Joan Crawford and Donald Trump) and the preening self-help guru Dwight Williams (Mike Kirsch).
But these are just the principals. The eight supporting players deftly zip through quick, distinct portraits, whether playing busy city pedestrians, square-dancing singles, Wall Street traders, blindered minions of the Williams cult or demented participants at a speed-dating event.
And when a good head of steam gets going, with the cast tap-dancing en masse, it's an exhilarating locomotive of high spirits. Did I mention that the performers make their routines look easy? They also appear to be having a ball.
''I Love Bob'' continues through Sunday at the Joyce SoHo, 155 Mercer Street; (212) 242-0800, joyce.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: I Love Bob: Kelly Sheehan and Ryan Kasprzak in this Parallel Exit production directed by Mark Lonergan at the Joyce SoHo. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM MOORE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (77%); DATING SERVICES (64%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (51%)

PERSON: DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

TITLE: I Heart Bob (Play)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



983 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Artist Group Petitions Museum in Los Angeles

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
The Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, which has been in a harsh spotlight since its chief curator, Paul Schimmel, resigned under pressure in late June and all the artists on its board of trustees left in protest, is now the subject of an online petition demanding that it make curatorial changes to right itself. 
A group called MOCA Mobilization, led by the Los Angeles artists Diane Thater and Cindy Bernard, created the petition on the website Change.org on Tuesday, calling on the museum to begin a search for a new chief curator as well as for a senior curator, a position being vacated by Philipp Kaiser, who was recently named the director of the Museum Ludwig in Cologne, Germany. (MOCA has another senior curator, Alma Ruiz.)
The director of the Museum of Contemporary Art, Jeffrey Deitch, said after Mr. Schimmel's departure that he intended to leave the job of chief curator unfilled and to take on those duties himself, while supplementing the museum's own small curatorial staff with guest curators. Mr. Deitch, a former New York gallery owner who took over as director in 2010, has taken the museum in a more pop-culture-focused direction, rankling many in the Los Angeles art community.
The petition also called on the museum to find new artists to serve on its board of trustees, after the recent resignations of John Baldessari, Barbara Kruger, Catherine Opie and Ed Ruscha. ''MOCA's relationship with the artist community at its core is broken,'' the petition argues, adding, ''Artists are vital to the life of the museum and the artist trustees must remain informed.''
On Friday, Mr. Deitch posted a message on the museum's Web site, seeking to assure museum patrons that he was taking the institution in the right direction. ''It is essential that MOCA remain progressive and at the forefront of change, as it always has been,'' Mr. Deitch wrote. ''The museum's upcoming program is a response to and an articulation of the current art and cultural landscape today.''
MOCA Mobilization was founded in 2008, as the museum was undergoing a financial crisis that threatened to close it or force it to merge with another museum. As of Wednesday morning, the petition had registered 341 signatures.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (92%); PETITIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: July 31, 2012



984 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: Political Worries in U.S. and China Color Obama Aide's Beijing Visit

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- The Obama administration's national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, ended two days of talks with China's top leaders Wednesday evening, a visit that was billed as low-key but was freighted as much with domestic politics in both the United States and China as with foreign policy.
As Mr. Donilon met with Hu Jintao, China's president, in the imposing Fujian Room of the Great Hall of the People on Tuesday, Mitt Romney was accusing President Obama of being soft on Beijing. For its part, the Obama campaign argues that Mr. Romney supported outsourcing jobs to other countries while running Bain Capital. The White House boasts that it initiated more tariff proceedings against China at the World Trade Organization than the Bush administration did. 
The political jockeying at China's expense even before the presidential campaign gets fully under way makes the leadership here uneasy, foreign policy experts say. Mr. Hu raised the issue with Mr. Obama during their talks last month on the sidelines of an international conference in Mexico, the experts said.
Most of the senior leaders of the Communist Party will be retiring when the 18th National Party Congress gathers in the fall. As the old guard departs, it would like to hand over a relatively stable relationship with the United States, experts here say.
So a large part of Mr. Donilon's mission was just turning up in the Chinese capital, something he had not done since he was elevated from his deputy position to national security adviser in October 2010.
China's top leaders value their relationship with the White House most of all. Mr. Donilon's absence had been noted, said Shi Yinhong, a foreign policy adviser to the State Council, China's equivalent to the cabinet.
''They trust the White House more than the State Department or the Pentagon,'' Mr. Shi said.
In late 2011, Mr. Donilon suddenly canceled what was to be his first visit to Beijing as national security adviser. The cancellation upset Beijing. It came just as President Obama announced what the administration called a ''pivot'' toward Asia, a policy turn widely interpreted here as an effort to contain China by enhancing the American military presence in the Pacific and reinforcing Washington's regional alliances.
Mr. Donilon has long been the main figure in the management of the White House relationship with China and is no stranger to Mr. Hu. He has developed a good relationship with Dai Bingguo, the most seasoned of China's diplomats and the primary adviser to Mr. Hu on relations with the United States, American and Chinese diplomats say.
But from the Chinese point of view, there is nothing like a visit on home territory. And for Mr. Donilon, there were good reasons to make the trip as well.
Mr. Donilon, who was a lobbyist for Fannie Mae from 1999 to 2005, earned his foreign policy credentials in the Clinton administration as chief of staff to Secretary of State Warren Christopher and as an assistant secretary of state for public affairs. He is on a shortlist circulating in Washington to succeed Hillary Rodham Clinton as secretary of state if Mr. Obama wins a second term.
As Mr. Donilon was greeted in one opulent room after another, it was clear how much Beijing values its connections to the White House. After meeting the departing Mr. Hu on Tuesday, Mr. Donilon was greeted at the Great Hall of the People on Wednesday by Xi Jinping, who will almost certainly succeed Mr. Hu as general secretary of the Communist Party at this autumn's congress and become president next year.
In contrast to the formal Mr. Hu, Mr. Xi seemed at ease, speaking off the cuff about his trip to the United States earlier this year.
Mr. Donilon spent the most time with Mr. Dai, who is 71, has a taste for marathon diplomatic talks and is seen by American officials as the principal conveyor of American policy to China's leaders. Mr. Dai invited his guest to dinner at an exclusive lakeside restaurant.
In an effort to keep the visit as low-profile as possible, a trademark of Mr. Donilon's diplomatic style, the White House announced only the broadest strokes about what was discussed.
A senior administration official said the subjects included North Korea, the administration's renewed focus on Asia, and the growing disputes over resource claims in the South China Sea. An economic specialist from the White House traveled with Mr. Donilon, and the trade issues between China and the United States were discussed, the official said. Current hot topics around the globe -- Iran, Afghanistan, Syria and the Middle East -- were also on the agenda, he said.
The military relationship was the focus of a meeting with the vice chairman of the Central Military Commission, Gen. Xu Caihou. One of Mr. Donilon's priorities was to try to persuade Beijing that Washington's shift toward Asia was not driven primarily by military considerations but was part of a broader engagement, said a former Obama administration official before the trip started, speaking on the condition of anonymity.
Tellingly, Mr. Donilon's visit coincided with the publication of an article on relations between China and the United States by Cui Tiankai, a vice foreign minister and one of China's most experienced diplomats in dealing with the United States. Mr. Cui was present at all the major meetings with Mr. Donilon.
In a section of the article clearly aimed at what China sees as Washington's meddling in disputes between China and its neighbors over the South China Sea, Mr. Cui wrote: ''China is not the maker of these problems, and still less the perpetrator of the harm. Rather, it is a victim on which harm has been imposed.''
Mr. Cui also criticized the Obama administration for what he called aggressive military moves, including advancing an anti-ballistic-missile system in the Asia-Pacific region.
''The United States must face the issue and convince China, other countries in the region and the international community that there is no gap between its policy statement on China and its true intentions,'' Mr. Cui wrote.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The national security adviser, Thomas E. Donilon, second from left, and Dai Bingguo, directly across from him, a top Chinese diplomat, have developed a good relationship, other envoys say.
 The old guard, including President Hu Jintao, is preparing for a leadership change. (POOL PHOTOS BY ALEXANDER F. YUAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); OUTSOURCING (70%); ARMED FORCES (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); BAIN CAPITAL LLC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); HU JINTAO (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); FUJIAN, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



985 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: California Envisions Fix To Water Distribution

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER and JENNIFER MEDINA

 BODY:
COURTLAND, Calif. -- Flanked by the interior secretary and a federal environmental watchdog, Gov. Jerry Brown unveiled his plan to reconfigure the state's oversubscribed water distribution system in hopes of satisfying the conflicting demands of Southern California cities, agribusinesses and environmentalists, which have competing claims on the flow of the Sacramento River, the state's largest source of fresh water.
The officials said their plan would ensure both that the ecosystem of the Sacramento River's delta would be reinvigorated and that water deliveries to the south would become reliable. 
The $14 billion blueprint envisions both the physical and psychological re-engineering of California's plumbing, including the construction of twin 35-mile-long pipelines, each about as wide as a three-lane highway, that would tap river water from a more northerly, less polluted location. The pipelines would deliver the water straight to the conveyances in the south, largely replacing a system that pumps water from the murkier southern part of the 500,000-acre delta, disturbing the fragile ecosystem.
It also includes financial incentives for consumers of water -- municipalities and farming interests -- to use less.
But beyond that, the sweeping and ambitious plan was noticeably shy of details.
''As broken and outdated as California's water system is, we are also closer than ever to forging a lasting and sustainable solution that strengthens California's water security and restores the health of the delta,'' Interior Secretary Ken Salazar said. ''With science as our guide, we are taking a comprehensive approach to tackling California's water problems when it comes to increasing efficiency and improving conservation.''
The secretary and Mr. Brown emphasized that the new system would be a hedge against natural disasters like flooding, earthquakes or sea level rise that could collapse crucial levees and disrupt water supplies. Mr. Salazar said the water system was ''at constant risk of failure.'' Mr. Brown added: ''We know there are a couple of big issues, earthquakes and climate change. And this facility is absolutely essential to deal with both of them.''
Northern California legislators objected. ''This rush to construction without the benefit of science is going to do irreparable harm, to Northern California in particular,'' Representative Jackie Speier, a Democrat from the Bay Area, said.
The plan to move forward was announced at a news conference in Sacramento, about 35 miles from this small town at the northern edge of the delta where the Sacramento and San Joaquin Rivers meet.
The local marshland ecosystem has suffered, in the words of one area environmentalist, a ''biological meltdown'' after 150 years of levee building and ever-increasing water withdrawals.
Repairing the ecosystem, where fresh and salt water, overwhelmed by agricultural runoff and invasive species, push against each other in a perpetual dance, has been made a political priority. Officially, it is as important as assuring the viability of water deliveries through one of two major water arteries for Southern California. The other is the Colorado River.
For decades, advocates for fish, for cities and for farmers have been trying to agree on a plan to manage the water flowing through the delta. The Bay Delta Conservation Plan has been fraught from the beginning, and its plans widely criticized.
With the announcement Wednesday, state and federal leaders sidestepped most of the specifics that could create controversy: operational details like how much water would go through the pipes and when, scientific goals for recovery of endangered and threatened fish, and even economic assessment of whether the benefits would outweigh the costs.
The management of the new apparatus would spring from a hybrid of agencies; documents released by the state last week described a ''decision tree'' to ensure that science was a main element of operational decisions.
Many scientists believe that delivering the water that powerful agricultural interests say they need -- one-quarter of the Sacramento River's annual average flow of 22 million acre-feet -- would further harm the battered populations of smelt, sturgeon, salmon and steelhead.
The failure to solve this dilemma has been the catalyst for some willingness to compromise, since most of the stakeholders agree that the current situation is untenable. Decisions in recent years by the federal Fish and Wildlife Service and the courts to ensure there is enough water for fish have led to water delivery cutbacks in drought years.
''We live in a world of uncertainty, where we never really know what we are getting,'' said Jeff Kightlinger, the general manager of the Metropolitan Water District of Southern California, which serves 19 million residents from San Diego to the northern and eastern reaches of Los Angeles. ''We've been fighting every year, but every year we lose water and every year the fish get worse. Nobody is getting what they want right now.''
Although Ann Nothoff, California advocacy director for the Natural Resources Defense Council, is troubled by the lack of detail in the proposal, she believes, ''The status quo is unacceptable.''
Some scientists and engineers have argued that, despite improvements, the current system exacerbates the destruction of fish by degrading their habitat.
David Hayes, the deputy interior secretary, said that the breakthrough in the talks about the delta was that ''water contractors had been insisting that there be a guarantee of a specific'' amount of water deliveries. ''The regulatory agencies said: 'We can't guarantee that.' And they'' -- the contractors -- ''stepped back and agreed to that.''
''We're glad to see that decisions are being made,'' said James M. Beck, the general manager of the Kern County Water Agency, which serves some of the most powerful agribusinesses in the state. ''What we really need,'' he added, ''is some detailed specific information'' about how much water stakeholders are entitled to, and how much they will have to pay for it.
Construction of the system is expected to take at least a decade, even after all the required environmental and engineering studies are complete. Those who consume water will have to cover the cost of construction; buying land and creating new habitat will fall to the government.
One coalition centered on the small-scale farmers within the delta rejects the idea that the new project is necessary. It worries that the clear Sacramento River water it now relies on will be replaced with tidal residues from the San Francisco Bay.
''This is a transfer of wealth,'' said Rogene Reynolds, a small farmer in Stockton. ''Because water is wealth.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Gov. Jerry Brown, far left, and Interior Secretary Ken Salazar announced a plan to reconfigure the water system encompassing the Sacramento River, above, and the San Joaquin River. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICH PEDRONCELLI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (90%); RIVERS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); WATER QUALITY (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); AGRICULTURAL POLLUTION (78%); NONPOINT SOURCE POLLUTION (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); WATER RIGHTS (77%); AGRICULTURE (77%); WATER CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); WATER CONSUMPTION (72%); CLIMATOLOGY (69%); FOOD SECURITY (69%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

PERSON: JERRY BROWN (89%); KEN SALAZAR (78%); JACKIE SPEIER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



986 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: Who Deserves a Tax Break?

 BODY:
In a rare show of old-fashioned democracy, Senate Republicans allowed Democrats a simple-majority vote on Wednesday to pass a bill extending tax cuts on income up to $250,000 a year. Republicans, knowing the measure would be killed in the House because it raises taxes on the rich, chose not to filibuster it in hopes of ''exposing'' a few vulnerable Democrats to a tough vote.
There was nothing tough about it, however, and Democrats at least finally put the Senate on record in favor of a sensible tax plan. 
By a vote of 51 to 48, the Senate agreed to extend a tax break for the middle class while raising taxes on the rich to nearly the same level as they were in the Clinton administration. (A period of historic economic expansion, by the way.) Polls show overwhelming public support for this plan, giving even the most embattled Democratic Senate candidates a strong platform to run on.
The bill is not perfect. It taxes dividends at about half the rate proposed by President Obama, which is a benefit almost entirely for the rich, and should have raised the overly generous estate tax.
The vote, however, exposes the true priorities of the Republicans. No Senate Republican agreed to support the middle-class tax cut by itself because they insisted that the rich get one, too. (Actually, the rich would have gotten a tax cut on their first quarter-million of income, but, apparently, that wasn't enough.) Forty-four Republicans (and one Democrat) voted for an alternative bill that would give wildly generous estate tax breaks to a few of the richest American heirs at a cost of $119 billion to the deficit.
And those 44 Republicans also voted to raise taxes on 13 million low- and moderate-income working families. Though it seems unbelievable on a day when Republicans tried to be so generous to their wealthiest contributors, they voted for a bill that would end the child tax credit for nine million families that make less than $13,300, costing some of the nation's most struggling households $854 a year. Another four million families would be affected by the Republican vote to reduce both the earned income tax credit and the middle-class credit for college tuition.
For these families, the party of Grover Norquist's no-tax-hike pledge has no sympathy. The tax credits were part of Mr. Obama's 2009 stimulus law and thus have no currency with Republicans, several of whom said on the Senate floor on Wednesday that they were only intended to be temporary.
But the Bush tax cuts were also temporary. They first expired in 2010, but Mr. Obama and the Democrats agreed to Republican demands to extend them for two years or risk hurting the middle class with a tax increase. This time, Democrats say they are willing to stand up to hostage-taking and let all the tax cuts expire on New Year's Day, then reinstate those for the middle class.
That step will probably be necessary once the bill passed by the Senate on Wednesday goes to the Republican-controlled House, which will kill it. The official justification will surely be that all revenue bills have to originate in the House, but that's a procedural barrier that could easily have been sidestepped if Senator Mitch McConnell, the Republican leader, hadn't refused to do so.
The real reason the bill will die in the House is that it is not sufficiently generous to the only income group that Republicans seem to care about.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); ESTATE TAX (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FILIBUSTER (78%); POLITICS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); TUITION FEES (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



987 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: Rising Loss In Europe Drags Down Ford's Profit

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DEARBORN, Mich. -- The Ford Motor Company said on Wednesday that its second-quarter profit dropped 57 percent on slower sales and wider losses in its troubled European operations.
Ford said it earned $1 billion in the quarter, compared to $2.4 billion in the same period last year. While its core North American business continued to perform well, Ford reported a loss of $404 million in Europe and now expects to lose more than $1 billion there this year.
The automaker said for the first time that its overall 2012 operating profits would fall from last year's results because of the economic crisis in Europe. 
Ford's chief executive, Alan R. Mulally, said the company was determined to fix its European business with the same tactics it used to turn around its North American operations. But with the European car market in its worst slump in more than a decade, Mr. Mulally said a comeback would take time.
''We are assuming that this is a structural issue,'' Mr. Mulally said in a conference call with analysts and news media. ''It's not going to come back fast.''
Other automakers are struggling in Europe, including Ford's Detroit rival, General Motors, which is expected to report a large loss in the region on Aug. 2 when it releases second-quarter earnings.
Ford made money in Europe in six of the previous eight years and was profitable as recently as the first half of 2011.
Those days appear long gone. With some countries in Europe posting sales declines of 20 percent and higher, Ford's second-quarter loss was nearly three times greater than in the first quarter.
Revenue in Europe fell to $7.1 billion in the quarter compared to $9 billion in the same period last year. The company is also losing market share because it has so far declined to match the big discounts being offered by rival automakers.
Ford's chief financial officer, Robert Shanks, said Ford had not anticipated such a rapid deterioration in Europe. He called market conditions there ''very, very serious.''
Mr. Shanks said Ford would lay off temporary workers, slow the speed of its European assembly lines and institute shorter workdays. The company said it would cut production by 49,000 cars in the third quarter to keep inventories manageable as sales continue to decline.
Industry analysts said the moves were probably a prelude to harsher cuts, possibly including the closing of an assembly plant.
''With capacity utilization at 63 percent on a three-shift basis, Ford is seemingly beginning to acknowledge (somewhat belatedly) that it needs to address its cost base,'' Brian Johnson, a Barclays analyst, wrote in a note to investors.
Mr. Mulally said that Ford was not ready to announce any major structural moves, but that the company would not cut investments in new products as part of a restructuring plan.
''Even in the worst of times, we will not back off on our investment in the future,'' he said.
The bleak performance in Europe overshadowed Ford's strong results in North America, where it reported a $2 billion operating profit in the quarter.
North America, in fact, is carrying the company. Ford struggled in South America, where it made just $5 million in the quarter compared to $267 million in the same period in 2011. The company also lost $66 million in Asia, where it is investing heavily in new factories, compared to a $1 million profit a year ago.
Over all, Ford's revenue was $33.3 billion in the quarter, down from $35.5 billion a year earlier. The company said it ended the period with $33.9 billion in cash and other liquid assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (74%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CLOSINGS (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (52%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%); GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

PERSON: ALAN MULALLY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%) EUROPE (94%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



988 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 890 words

HEADLINE: Obama Delivers Defense of His Policy Efforts

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

 BODY:
NEW ORLEANS -- President Obama wrapped up a three-day fund-raising swing with an emotional appearance here at the National Urban League conference, issuing a robust defense of his efforts to make higher education more affordable, to increase training programs for young people and to expand access to health care.
''From the highest court in the land, health care reform is here to stay,'' the president said in a no-holds-barred presentation of what he considers the accomplishments of his term. 
Announcing an education initiative for African-Americans, the president challenged his mostly black audience to take advantage of the government programs he has fought to put in place.
''I want all these young people to be getting a higher education, and I don't want them loaded with thousands of dollars of debt,'' Mr. Obama said, to a standing ovation.
Then he paused: ''Of course that means all of y'all got to hit the books. Don't cheer and then don't do your homework.''
The president also spoke of the need to do more to keep guns out of the hands of troubled people, in the wake of the shootings last week at a movie theater in Aurora, Colo. Besides saying that federal and local efforts should be redoubled, he called on families to step in, as well.
''We have no greater mission as a country than to keep our young people safe,'' Mr. Obama said. ''But we have to understand that when a child opens fire on another child, there's a hole in that child's heart that government can't fill.''
Before Mr. Obama spoke, many members of the audience in the convention center here were moved to tears by a video that showed the highlights of the civil rights movement. Set to words and music of the black spiritual anthem ''Lift Every Voice and Sing,'' the video montage included the visages of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the Rev. Jesse Jackson, Rosa Parks and Thurgood Marshall.
It ended, as everyone knew it would, with the Obama family and America's first black president, but that foregone conclusion did not seem to affect the emotional punch.
By the time Mr. Obama walked onto the stage, the audience had been on its feet cheering for five minutes straight.
Mr. Obama spoke about his early days as a community organizer in Chicago, and cast his efforts to retain the presidency in historical terms, talking about ''the belief that in America, change is always possible.''
''Our union may not be perfect, but it is perfectible,'' he said, adding that ''we can strive through effort, through blood and sweat and tears until it is the place we imagined.''
In response to the speech, an aide to Mitt Romney's presidential campaign said that Mr. Romney would be a better choice for black voters because of his experience in business and as governor of Massachusetts.
Tara Wall, a senior communications adviser for the campaign, said in a statement: ''As black Americans, we all take pride in Barack Obama's historic election -- but unfortunately his performance as president has not matched that enthusiasm. He's disappointed black small business owners, failed to address rising black unemployment -- which now stands at over 14 percent, and is double that among our youth -- and failed to address the widening economic disparity gap.''
Mr. Obama's appearance Wednesday before the National Urban League came at the end of the day when the issue of race flared up in the campaign.
Earlier Wednesday Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. sharply criticized what he called a ''feeble attempt by the Romney campaign to score political points'' overseas.
He was referring to an article in London's Daily Telegraph -- in which an unidentified Romney adviser suggests that because Mr. Romney is white he has more in common with Britain than Mr. Obama does.
''We are part of an Anglo-Saxon heritage, and he feels that the special relationship is special,'' the adviser is quoted as telling the newspaper. ''The White House didn't fully appreciate the shared history we have.''
Mr. Biden, in a statement that the Obama camp e-mailed to reporters, said the comments were ''a disturbing start to a trip designed to demonstrate Governor Romney's readiness to represent the United States on the world's stage.''
He called it ''just another feeble attempt by the Romney campaign to score political points at the expense of this critical partnership.''
Furious Romney campaign aides lashed back.
''Today, the race for the highest office in our land was diminished to a sad level when the vice president of the United States used an anonymous and false quote from a foreign newspaper to prop up their flailing campaign,'' a Romney spokesman, Ryan Williams, said in a statement. ''The president's own press secretary has repeatedly discredited anonymous sources, yet his political advisers saw fit to advance a falsehood.''
Obama aides were not backing down.
Speaking to reporters aboard Air Force One en route to New Orleans, Jennifer Psaki, a campaign spokeswoman, declined to characterize the remark as race-baiting, but said, ''There are countless examples, which I'm happy to provide, of occasions where Mitt Romney and his surrogates have questioned whether the president understood America or freedom, and that really goes over a line that we think they shouldn't.''
Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, called the remark ''gratuitously ignorant of the facts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama boarding Air Force One in Seattle before traveling to New Orleans and the National Urban League conference. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (85%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); FAMILY (77%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (77%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (72%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL URBAN LEAGUE (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); JESSE JACKSON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



989 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Fed Sees Both Benefits And Risks in New Moves

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The argument for the Federal Reserve to introduce another round of stimulus, and its reasons for hesitation, can both be summarized by a single number: 3.53 percent, the average interest rate last week on a 30-year mortgage.
The cost of mortgages and other kinds of loans remain well above zero, a chief reason that many Fed officials are confident the central bank still has some power to increase the pace of economic growth by continuing to reduce interest rates. 
But those rates also are lower than they ever have been before, raising questions about how low they can go, and about the eventual consequences of such huge and enduring distortions to the normal workings of the financial marketplace.
Top Fed officials are coming to the conclusion that the economy is not growing fast enough to reduce the nation's high rate of unemployment, and several members of the Fed's policy-making committee have said additional action is needed if the economy is ''stuck in the mud,'' as Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has said.
The question vexing officials as the committee prepares to meet Tuesday and Wednesday is whether the available actions would do more good than harm.
''They repeatedly say that they have additional tools to use, but they haven't done it,'' said Tim Duy, a professor of economics at the University of Oregon. ''That leads one to believe that they're not particularly confident in the tools that they have.''
The concerns are focused on the most aggressive option available to the Fed, a further expansion of its investment portfolio. They fall into two broad categories: Is the Fed disrupting markets by removing assets from circulation? And, in reducing interest rates, is the Fed pulling on a rubber band that could snap back quickly and painfully, sending those same rates soaring with disruptive consequences?
In part because of those concerns, Fed officials have said that they want to be sure of the need for additional action before they decide to make the attempt.
''I don't think they should be launched lightly,'' Mr. Bernanke said of asset purchases at a June news conference. ''There should be some conviction that they're needed.''
Mr. Bernanke controls the Fed's decision-making process, but he is unlikely to act without the support of a significant majority of the 11 other officials who hold votes on the committee. The resolute opposition of one, Jeffrey M. Lacker, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, is unlikely to make a difference. But more moderate officials, including Sandra Pianalto, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Cleveland, also have stopped short of clear support for new actions in recent speeches, citing uncertainty about the economy and concern about the costs.
Some Wall Street analysts have concluded that the Fed is unlikely to act before its September meeting, once it has seen data on job creation in July and August.
The Fed already is engaged in a huge campaign to reduce borrowing costs for businesses and consumers. It has held short-term interest rates near zero since late 2008, and it has said that it expects to maintain that policy at least until late 2014. To put further pressure on long-term rates, it has acquired almost $3 trillion of mortgage-backed securities and longer-term Treasury securities -- an effort that it has already said will continue until the end of this year.
The purchases drive down interest rates by reducing the supply of assets like long-term Treasury securities. Scarcity raises prices, meaning that investors are accepting a lower rate of return. It also pushes some investors to move their money into other assets, with much the same effect of lowering rates.
The policies, along with a weak economy that has reduced demand for loans, have helped to push a wide range of borrowing costs to the lowest levels on record.
In addition to the low level of mortgage rates, investors effectively are paying the federal government for the privilege of financing the national debt.
Borrowing costs for companies with good credit fell to an average of 3.04 percent Wednesday, the lowest level on record, according to an index compiled by Bank of America Merrill Lynch. Rates have dropped 22 percent this year.
The Fed's efforts also have pumped up the stock market and held down the cost of American exports by pushing down the value of the dollar.
The extent of economic benefits from these lower rates remains a subject of considerable debate, but the basic mechanics are clear enough.
Lower mortgage rates, for example, encourage people to buy homes, allow them to afford more expensive homes and let existing homeowners refinance. The benefits do not directly reach homeowners who are underwater or borrowers who cannot qualify for loans. But the Obama administration estimates that refinancing alone has saved homeowners some $27.7 billion over the last three years.
Companies also have taken advantage. The industrial conglomerate United Technologies in May staged the largest bond sale since the recession, raising $9.8 billion to finance its purchase of the aerospace firm Goodrich. The brewer Anheuser-Busch InBev raised $7.5 billion in mid-July toward its purchase of Grupo Modelo.
But corporate bonds also highlight the difficulties confronting the Fed.
The increase in total borrowing has been modest. Issuance of domestic corporate bonds increased by 2 percent in the first half of 2012, as compared with the first six months of 2011, according to data compiled by Bloomberg.
The Fed's ability to reduce the cost of government debt has only partly translated to the private sector. Rates on corporate debt have fallen much more slowly than on Treasuries, more than doubling the difference between corporate and government interest rates before the recession.
Mortgage rates remain similarly elevated in comparison to Treasuries, although some Fed officials say they believe this could be addressed by purchasing mortgage securities. The Fed is forbidden by law from purchasing corporate debt.
The disappointing reduction in rates, and the muted response to those lower rates, may be seen as a reason for the Fed to increase the scale of its efforts.
But some economists are concerned about the possibility that additional purchases will impede the use of Treasuries as a kind of global currency.
''By reducing the supply of Treasury bonds, the economy is deprived of extremely safe and liquid assets,'' the Northwestern University economists Arvind Krishnamurthy and Annette Vissing-Jorgensen wrote Tuesday. They suggested that the Fed should buy mortgage securities with money raised by selling Treasuries.
The Fed also does not want to own such a large share of Treasuries that the volume of buying and selling becomes too small to produce reliable prices.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Bernanke, the Federal Reserve chief, said the economy was ''stuck in the mud.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF RICHMOND (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF CLEVELAND (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF OREGON (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



990 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: Steel Giant Scaling Back In Downturn

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

 BODY:
LONDON -- Steel is a notoriously volatile industry. But four years ago, Lakshmi Mittal, the Indian-born tycoon, appeared to have mastered the business.
He was still aglow from his 2006 victory in an epic takeover battle for his nearest rival, Arcelor of Luxembourg, which made the merged company, ArcelorMittal, the world's largest steel maker by far. With a fast-growing world economy hungry for steel, ArcelorMittal reported operating income of nearly $12 billion for 2008.
Things are different now, with Europe in a deep economic funk and once-roaring construction markets like India and China also slowing. Last year, the company had operating income of $4.9 billion. And on Wednesday, it reported second-quarter operating income of $1.1 billion, on sales of $22.48 billion. While the sales were down 10 percent from a year earlier, income was down more than 50 percent as the cost of the industry's raw material, iron ore, rose even as steel prices slumped.
''Clearly, this performance is not acceptable at all,'' Mr. Mittal said by telephone on Wednesday, while noting that the severity of the various downturns had been unexpected. 
The company has already started curtailing production in Europe to match reduced demand. And it is bracing for resistance from unions and governments to other planned cost cuts. Those include the major wage and benefit concessions it is seeking from workers in the United States, where it employs thousands of workers at 12 major facilities in states including Indiana and Pennsylvania.
Back in the boom times, Mr. Mittal's strategy was to consolidate a fragmenting industry. Putting production into fewer hands would make it easier to adjust output to cushion the cyclical downturns that have always played havoc with steel makers. Among the American companies he bought were Inland Steel and the International Steel Group, which owned plants once operated by companies like LTV and Weirton Steel.
Beginning with the global recession in 2009, though, ArcelorMittal has faced one setback after another.
The latest and perhaps the most serious hazard is the protracted euro zone financial turmoil that has all but killed demand for steel in Western Europe. ArcelorMittal, with headquarters in Luxembourg, produced more than a third of its worldwide crude steel in Europe last year. Nearly 100,000 of the company's 260,000 employees work in Europe.
ArcelorMittal's share price has fallen steeply since 2008, reducing the value of the Mittal family's controlling stake of 40 percent to $9 billion from an estimated $55 billion in 2008.
The benchmark price of European steel in 2008 was about 850 euros ($1,030 at today's exchange rates) a metric ton. By last month, that price was 573 euros, according to Meps, a consulting firm in Sheffield, England.
And the lower the price drops, the more reluctant buyers are to commit, ''because the material they have in stock is worth less as each week passes,'' said Peter Fish, the chairman of Meps.
Inexpensive Chinese steel, heavily subsidized by its government, has also been a big drag on global prices. Even as steel production in Western Europe and the United States has declined over the last five years, China's output has grown about 60 percent, and China now makes 46 percent of the world's steel.
Mr. Mittal said almost all Chinese companies lost money in the first half of the year. ''That is good news in the sense that they will have to work on restructuring the steel industry,'' eventually putting profit ahead of volume, he said.
But largely because of China's ravenous appetite for iron ore, the industry's main raw material, its price has quadrupled since 2006, to about $134 a metric ton.
''The steel makers like ArcelorMittal are caught in the middle,'' said Jeff Largey, an analyst at Macquarie in London. ''On the one hand, the end markets are weak and they don't have any pricing power. On the other hand, they can't do anything about high raw materials prices driven by demand from China.''
Mr. Mittal started out in the 1970s building and operating a minimill in Indonesia. He built his fortune in the next three decades by buying and fixing a network of gigantic but poorly performing plants in places like Kazakhstan, Romania and Mexico.
But now Mr. Mittal finds himself in a tough fight just to control costs and reduce the company's $22 billion in debt. In Europe, he has idled nine of his 25 blast furnaces, the huge machines that turn iron ore into liquid metal.
And in contrast to his earlier acquisition spree, he is now selling properties. ArcelorMittal recently sold two North American steel foundation businesses called Skyline Steel and Astralloy to a rival, Nucor, for $605 million -- part of $2.7 billion in divestitures since September.
Because of its mergers, ArcelorMittal has ''a lot of low-hanging fruit,'' said Wen Li, an analyst at Credit Sights in New York.
The company also benefits from its global reach. The mills in the United States are doing better than those in Europe, thanks to demand from heavy-equipment makers like Caterpillar and for steel pipe to feed the North American shale gas boom. And unlike its rivals, ArcelorMittal has its own major iron ore operations, helping buffer high prices.
In Europe, where the company faces its deepest problems, it says it wants to keep its best plants -- like those in Ghent, Belgium and Dunkirk, France -- running at high rates while sidelining the poor performers. But ArcelorMittal probably needs to close some plants permanently, analysts say. And as the automakers know too well, closing plants in Europe requires months, if not years, of talks.
Labor problems are also looming in the United States. The company and the United Steelworkers union are now in intensive talks in Pittsburgh, trying to reach a new agreement before the current contract covering 12,500 workers expires at the end of August. ArcelorMittal is pushing for lower costs and more flexible work rules that the union says would add up to wage and benefit reductions of $28 an hour.
The company says the workers make an average of $170,855 a year in pay and benefits, of which $82,471 is gross pay. A union spokesman, Anthony Montana, said the company's figure was ''an inflated noncash cost calculation,'' but he would not provide a union estimate.
The union says that in addition to upfront compensation cuts, the company also wants the right to cut wages during periods of reduced operation. The company is proposing cuts in retirement benefits, too, seeking to eliminate retiree health care for employees hired after Sept. 1, 2012, and switch those employees to a 401(k) from a pension plan.
Mr. Largey, the Macquarie analyst, said the company might think it was worth enduring a strike if needed to reduce costs.
But an ArcelorMittal spokesman, William C. Steers, said on Wednesday, ''We are optimistic we will reach a fair agreement because ultimately the union and the company want the same thing -- a successful business throughout the cycle that provides good job security and industry-leading pay for industry-leading performance.''
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction:

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Discussing the second quarter, Lakshmi Mittal of ArcelorMittal said on Wednesday, ''This performance is not acceptable at all.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANG TAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The ArcelorMittal plant near Madrid in January, when officals announced that it would close. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOMINIQUE FAGET/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B4) CHARTS: Price Squeeze: Weak economic conditions have depressed steel prices in Europe and hit steel producers' profits ...
 ... while China's state-subsidized steel companies continue to dominate world production. (Source: MEPS) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); MERGERS (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); RECESSION (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); MONETARY UNIONS (66%); EXCHANGE RATES (61%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (95%); ARCELORMITTAL STEEL USA INC (58%); RYERSON HOLDING CORP (53%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (95%); MT (PAR) (95%); MT (NYSE) (95%); MT (AMS) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (95%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (95%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (95%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (58%); SIC1011 IRON ORES (58%); NAICS423510 METAL SERVICE CENTERS & OTHER METAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (53%); NAICS332322 SHEET METAL WORK MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: LAKSHMI N MITTAL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SHEFFIELD, ENGLAND (79%) INDIANA, USA (79%) EUROPE (96%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); LUXEMBOURG (90%); INDIA (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



991 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1186 words

HEADLINE: What We Can Learn From Third-World Health Care

BYLINE: PAULINE W. CHEN, M.D.


HIGHLIGHT: Applying the successes of medical organizations that have delivered high-quality care under some of the most challenging circumstances possible could offer hope for improving our country's health care woes. 

 BODY:
The young doctor had just returned from a month working in a country in Africa, familiar to the rest of us only through pictures of its impoverished population and news reports of recurring natural disasters and political upheavals. "You must feel exhausted but great," a senior colleague commented. "You went in there and you really helped those people."
But my younger colleague felt neither exhausted nor relieved to be back home, she confided when the older doctor had left the room. She had cared for dozens of patients with abscesses and broken bones, tumors and arrow wounds, relying on nothing more than a single rickety X-ray machine, a handful of battered surgical instruments and the aid of one well-connected local nurse. 
"We could get so much done with so little over there," she said. "It's like we're not doing something right over here."
Put another way, the American health care system has become the great international paradox, spending more but getting less.
With all the most advanced technology and equipment, spending far more on health care than any other nation - a whopping $2.6 trillion annually, or over 17 percent of our gross domestic product - the United States consistently underperforms on some of the most important health indicators. Our infant mortality rates, for example, are worse than those in countries like Hungary, Cuba and Slovenia. Our life expectancy rates are not much better; in global rankings, we sit within spitting distance of Cuba, Chile and Libya. 
This quality conundrum dogs us, even as our best and brightest have tried to imagine a more cost-efficient system. Some have pursued the carrot-and-stick route, linking quality measures to reimbursement. Others have attempted to reduce quality to its most basic parts, creating checklists and to-do lists. And still others have rearranged networks of hospitals, clinics, physician practices and payments, conjuring up a breathtaking array of combinations, permutations and bundles of care in order to create more cost-efficient systems.
But, according to an essay published this summer in The Stanford Social Innovation Review, we might have saved ourselves the huge effort, the expenses and the disappointments of only marginally successful initiatives, if we had first looked to countries traditionally viewed as needing aid and learned from successes in facing challenges similar to our own. 
In the essay, Rebecca D. Onie, a founder and the chief executive of Health Leads, a domestic health care organization; Dr. Paul Farmer, a founder of Partners in Health, a Boston-based medical nonprofit group; and Dr. Heidi Behforouz, medical and executive director of the Prevention and Access to Care and Treatment project, a community-based health care initiative in the United States that is part of Partners in Health, argue eloquently for "reverse innovation." They contend that for decades, several nongovernmental and nonprofit medical organizations have delivered high-quality care in some of the most challenging circumstances possible. Applying the solutions these medical organizations have already discovered could allow us to bypass or at least foreshorten what has become an interminable trial-and-error search for the answers to our country's health care woes.
Their own organizations offer several models of success. For nearly three decades, Partners in Health, for example, has delivered consistently high-quality care to more than 2.5 million people in a dozen countries like Haiti, Rwanda and Peru, places with widespread poverty, scarce numbers of providers and no health care infrastructure. But they have managed to achieve, among other successes, the highest rate of cure of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the world and better rates of adherence to treatment regimens and follow-up than in much of the United States. 
The key to their success is an unabashed disregard for some of our most cherished assumptions about what constitutes good care. Instead of providing antibiotics, CT scans and high-tech interventions, Partners in Health considers basic necessities like food and housing as critical components of the group's medical work. Instead of asking patients to travel miles to the only clinic and see only the doctor or nurse, they train cadres of community health workers who can monitor, administer and advise in the heart of local villages and in people's homes. 
Applied to organizations in the United States, this approach has proved startlingly effective, as the Prevention and Access to Care and Treatment, or PACT, program has demonstrated. PACT targets some of the poorest and sickest patients with H.I.V. and other chronic illnesses in the greater Boston area. Just like Partners in Health, PACT relies extensively on community health workers who are trained in tasks like helping patients take their medications and make it to clinic appointments as well as reviewing their pantries and teaching them to prepare healthy meals. Applying these broad definitions of care, PACT has significantly decreased the number of emergency room visits and life-threatening opportunistic infections, cut hospitalization rates by 60 percent and yielded a 16 percent savings for Medicaid. 
Health Leads has stretched these definitions even further, giving the terms "provider" and "care" a millennial twist. Each year, Health Leads trains a selected group of technology-savvy and tenacious college students to staff "resource desks" in primary care and prenatal clinics in cities like New York, Baltimore, Boston and Chicago. With these Health Leads volunteers in place, doctors can, for example, "prescribe" housing assistance for a family whose child's severe asthma has been exacerbated by a cockroach infestation, healthy foods and nutrition resources for a man suffering from obesity, or transportation to a drugstore for an elderly woman who needs diabetes medications. At the resource desk, a Health Leads volunteer then "fills" these prescriptions by finding the best solutions for the problems at hand, whether that means tracking down the appropriate agency, navigating complicated online application processes or providing support as the patient makes the calls. In clinics where a single social worker may be responsible for as many as 25,000 patients, Health Leads volunteers have more than doubled the services provided. 
The successes of PACT and Health Leads are no secret. But what does remain mysterious as our health care system threatens to implode is why more of us haven't done the same and rushed to apply the lessons learned and proved elsewhere. 
"We keep trying to reinvent the wheel," Ms. Onie observed. "The humbling reality is that we are trying to recreate innovations that have been robustly developed in the developing world." 
In other words, we have yet to deploy what could prove to be the most powerful weapon in the fight to contain costs and improve the quality of health care: our own humility.

        
Among Doctors, Too, Women Are Paid Less
        
Does Medicine Discourage Gay Doctors?
        
When Less Treatment Is More
        
Learning From Other Patients
        
Getting Doctors to Think About Costs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); COMMUNITY HEALTH PROGRAMS (75%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (75%); NATURAL DISASTERS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); MEDICAL DEVICES (70%); BONE FRACTURES (70%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INFANT MORTALITY (50%) Doctor and Patient; Pauline Chen; Featured

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AFRICA (92%); SLOVENIA (78%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



992 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: Gay Couples' Marriage Rights Unequal and Uneven

BYLINE: PAUL GEITNER


HIGHLIGHT: Europe and the United States have one thing in common when it comes to marriage rights and civil unions for same-sex couples: inconsistency. 

 BODY:
BRUSSELS - Viewed from the United States, it sometimes seems that same-sex couples in Europe have it easy when it comes to marriage rights or civil unions, even adoption. But as I report in my latest newspaper story, it depends a lot on the country.
Europe is a big place: The Council of Europe, the Continent's leading human rights organization, counts 47 members, and life is probably very different for homosexuals in Russia or Turkey than it is in Iceland or Britain. Those differences also cause problems when residents move from one country to another. 
In one case, a German working in the Netherlands had to turn down a job transfer to Vienna after Austria refused to recognize his marriage. After an expensive, four-year legal battle, the couple won the promise of a residency permit for the American husband, but not a work permit.
"The image that I like is that spaghetti can move around Europe with greater liberty than couples and people," said Silvan Agius, policy director at ILGA Europe, an umbrella group that lobbies the European Union on gay rights issues, and sponsored a video, "Legal Jungle," to draw attention to the problem.
"There's also great protection of specific products coming from specific regions," like prosciutto from Parma or Champagne from France, he said. "But then when it comes to marriages and registered partnerships, there is a great aversion to mutual recognition."
The European Commission is studying whether to put forward a proposal that would require E.U. governments to automatically recognize the civil status documents - such as marriage certificates - issued in another member state. Opponents accuse Brussels of trying to indirectly introduce gay marriage across the continent.
"The European consensus on the definition of marriage was broken at the beginning of this decade (2000) when the Netherlands became the first of a small minority of European countries to permit marriage between two persons of the same sex," CARE for Europe, a Christian umbrella group, argued in its position paper. 
There is no consensus in the United States either, where gay marriage promises to become a hot-button political issue in this year's campaign. President Obama has come out in favor of gay marriage, while his presumptive Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, is against it, although he has said he would accept a more limited form of domestic partnership.
My colleague Ethan Bronner recently did the math and counted six states and Washington, D.C. - Connecticut, Iowa, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, New York and Vermont - that permit same-sex marriage. Nine others - California, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Nevada, New Jersey, Rhode Island, Oregon and Washington - allow comprehensive domestic partnerships or civil unions granting same-sex couples full rights except in name.
On the other side, about 30 states have passed amendments to their state constitutions in recent years defining marriage as between only a man and a woman.
Meanwhile, two requests for review of same-sex marriage rulings are headed to the U.S. Supreme Court this year.
Robert Wintemute, a professor of human rights law at King's College London, noted that the European Court of Human Rights, decided in 1981 that sexual activity between men could not be criminalized - but only after a majority of its members had already decriminalized it. That court's jurisdiction extends to all the Council of Europe members.
"In both Europe and the United States, it's a question of what would be the tipping point, when would the highest court feel comfortable requiring all countries or states to allow same sex couples to marry," he said.
While the situation is "evolving," Professor Wintemute, who also practiced law in New York, said such a tipping point is probably still at least 10 years away on both sides of the Atlantic.

Are you an expatriate who has been affected by laws that either facilitated or prevented your family from being able to move across borders? Tell us your story. Whether you are married, in a civil union, gay or straight, what do you think should be done - if anything - and by whom, in Europe or in the U.S.?

        
Where the United States Lags Far Behind Canada
        
A Female President Demands Equal Rights for Africa's Gays
        
What's the Matter With Kansas? ... What's the Matter With Wall St.?
        
Disappointment as Gay Marriage Is Left Out of Queen's Speech
        
Britain vs. the European Court of Human Rights

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (97%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (94%); MARRIAGE (92%); COHABITATION (90%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (90%); LGBT RIGHTS (90%); LOBBYING (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (68%) Council of Europe; gay and lesbian rights; same-sex marriage; Same-Sex Marriage, Civil Unions and Domestic Partnerships; Expatriate Life

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL OF EUROPE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); EUROPEAN COMMISSION (54%) Council of Europe

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (68%); BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (93%); VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); BELGIUM (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); AUSTRIA (79%); GERMANY (79%); ICELAND (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



993 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Lens)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: MULTIMEDIA

LENGTH: 601 words

HEADLINE: A Dip Into the Black Sea

BYLINE: KERRI MACDONALD


HIGHLIGHT: The Romanian photographer Petrut Calinescu circled the Black Sea to know what was across it, exploring a "black hole" in the Romanian mind-set. 

 BODY:
As a boy growing up in Constanta, a Romanian city on the western coast of the Black Sea, Petrut Calinescu made the seaside his playground. He spent his afternoons with friends, searching for German bunkers and plotting adventures. He recalls being drawn to the mystique of the open water.
"Once you look at the sea, you always want to know what is across the sea," Mr. Calinescu said recently from his home in Bucharest, a few hours by car from Constanta.
But for most of his 36 years, he never made it to the other side. So "The Black Sea," a project he pursued jointly with the writers Stefan Candea and Ioana Hodoiu, was born out of nostalgia for an unknown place.
Except Mr. Calinescu had never traveled there before. He didn't think it was exotic enough. Romanians have typically been more interested in traveling to European cities, he said. He had always assumed that the Black Sea had nothing to offer - that nothing there has changed, or will change.
But with a grant from the German Marshall Fund of the United States, Mr. Calinescu and his colleagues began to explore what he calls "a black hole" in the Romanian mind-set. They traveled more than 9,000 miles in 80 days, documenting their journey on a blog. Some of his most surprising pictures were taken underwater near a seaside resort using a blog-friendly digital camera (). "It was a funny lottery," he said. "I was doing pictures, but never knew what was going to be recorded."
They started in Romania and from there went to Bulgaria and Turkey, to Armenia and Azerbaijan (neither of which borders the Black Sea, though both are included in the Black Sea Economic Cooperation). They visited Russia, Ukraine, Moldova, and Georgia, and traveled to separatist republics: Nagorno-Karabakh, Transnistria and Abkhazia.
Overwhelmingly, the region's "Communist" aesthetic felt familiar. But Mr. Calinescu was struck by the beauty - and the peculiarities - of Abkhazia, a breakaway region in the former Soviet republic of Georgia that was, at one time, a hub for tourism.
"It was the dream of every Soviet citizen to have one time in his life a holiday there," he said.
Today, postcards for Abkhazia could feature scenes reminiscent of the cold war era, and buildings speckled with bullet holes. Yet Mr. Calinescu's pictures capture something rather jubilant, like a pair of Russian women dancing a samba in the early evening light ().
Mr. Calinescu, who is represented by Panos Pictures, went to school for journalism, studying to be a writer. He started taking photographs, mostly for fun, in high school. Now, he concentrates on projects, including one that explores the effects of labor migration on traditional populations in Romania.
But he isn't finished with the Black Sea. He sees it as a metaphor for life in the region. Some spend much of their lives dreaming of the beach, he said, and working to make it there. But, "once they get to the seaside, they see that it's very expensive, crowded and ugly."
Nonetheless, Mr. Calinescu and Mr. Candea are applying for grants to continue their travels. In July, they received a second grant from the German Marshall Fund, which will allow them to return to their Black Sea travels beginning this fall to publish in-depth reports online.
"It was like a dip into the sea on an August day," Mr. Calinescu wrote on their blog, using another Black Sea metaphor.
"After five minutes out of the water, you want to go back in."

        
Showcase: Trouble on the Line
        
In Transit to a Home That Isn't There
        
Pictures of the Day: Sri Lanka and Elsewhere
        
Kazakhstan's Capital, Outside and In
        
Photographing the World, Longing for Home

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COLD WAR (77%); WRITERS (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (72%); RESORTS (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (68%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (65%); VISUAL ARTISTS (62%) Armenia; Azerbaijan; Communism; Former Soviet nations; Georgia; Kerri MacDonald; Moldova; Panos Pictures; Petrut Calinescu; Romania; Stefan Candea; The Black Sea; Turkey; Photography; Travel and Vacations; Abkhazia (Georgian Republic); Black Sea; Bulgaria; Georgia (Georgian Republic); Transnistria (Moldova); Ukraine; Showcase

ORGANIZATION: GERMAN MARSHALL FUND OF THE US (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (94%) ROMANIA (99%); GEORGIA (98%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (94%); UKRAINE (93%); ARMENIA (93%); TURKEY (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); AZERBAIJAN (90%); BULGARIA (89%); GERMANY (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Abkhazia (Georgian Republic); Armenia; Azerbaijan; Black Sea; Bulgaria; Georgia (Georgian Republic); Moldova; Romania; Transnistria (Moldova); Ukraine

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



994 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Barclays Official in Line for $13.6 Million Payout

BYLINE: MARK SCOTT


HIGHLIGHT: Jerry del Missier, a former Barclays executive at the center of an interest rate manipulation scandal, is set to receive a $13.6 million payout, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. 

 BODY:
LONDON - A former senior Barclays executive involved in the interest rate manipulation scandal is set to receive a $13.6 million payout, a compensation package that could add to the scrutiny of the British bank.
Jerry del Missier, the bank's former chief operating officer who resigned this month, has been a central figure in the firestorm.
In June, British and American authorities fined Barclays for reporting false rates to increase profits and make the bank look healthier during the financial crisis. According to regulatory documents, a senior executive - later identified as Mr. del Missier - asked bank employees to lower the firm's submissions of the London interbank offered rate, or Libor.
 The Barclays case is the first major action stemming from a multiyear inquiry into rate-rigging that has ensnared more than 10 banks. Since the Barclays settlement, lawmakers have taken aim at regulators and bank executives.
In Congressional testimony on Thursday, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, vowed that authorities would forcefully pursue criminal investigations. Mr. Geithner, who ran the Federal Reserve Bank of New York during the financial crisis, has taken heat for not halting the illegal actions back then, despite evidence of problems. Instead, he advocated broad reforms to the rate-setting process.
"I believe that we did the necessary and appropriate thing," he said on Thursday before a Senate panel, the second Congressional hearing this week to focus on Mr. Geithner.
Mr. del Missier, who has held a number of top positions at the bank, has also defended his actions to lawmakers. In testimony to the British Parliament this month, the Canadian-born executive said he believed he was following the instructions of senior government officials. "I expected that the Bank of England's views would be incorporated into our Libor submissions," he said. "The views would have resulted in lower submissions."
Regulators say Mr. del Missier misinterpreted a discussion between Robert E. Diamond Jr., the former chief executive of Barclays, and Paul Tucker, the deputy governor of the Bank of England, the country's central bank.
Pay issues have dogged Barclays for months.
This year shareholders balked at the size of management's pay packages. In April, the top executives pledged to give up some of their bonuses if the bank did meet certain performance goals.
Shortly after the Barclays settlement, Mr. Diamond and Mr. del Missier agreed to forgo their annual payouts. Days later, both of them resigned over their roles in the rate-manipulation scandal. To help quell public anger, Mr. Diamond agreed to forfeit deferred stock bonuses of up to $31 million.
The former chief could still collect one year of salary and a cash payment collectively worth $3.1 million. Mr. del Missier is set to receive $13.6 million, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. The news of Mr. del Missier's payout was reported earlier by Sky News.
Barclays is now looking to replace many of its senior officials. Along with Mr. Diamond and Mr. del Missier, its chairman, Marcus Agius, has said he will leave once a new chief executive is in place. On Wednesday, Alison Carnwath, chairwoman of the firm's compensation committee, also gave up her position, citing undisclosed personal reasons.
A spokesman for Barclays declined to comment. A representative for Mr. del Missier was not immediately available for comment.

        
Barclays' Profit Falls As New Regulatory Problems Emerge
        
Senior Barclays Official Rules Himself Out as Next Chairman

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); EXECUTIVES (92%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SCANDALS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (79%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); TESTIMONY (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%); SHAREHOLDERS (68%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (52%) Barclays; Jerry del Missier; Marcus Agius; Robert E. Diamond Jr.; del Missier, Jerry; Banking and Financial Institutions; Executive Compensation; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); Barclays PLC; London (England); Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); BANK OF ENGLAND (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (92%); BARC (LSE) (92%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (71%); MARCUS AGIUS (59%) del Missier, Jerry

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (91%); ENGLAND (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



995 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Major Bill Delayed, House Works on Short-Term Farm Measure

BYLINE: RON NIXON


HIGHLIGHT: After delaying action on a sweeping agriculture measure, lawmakers seek a way to aid farmers devastated by the drought. 

 BODY:
After delaying action on a sweeping farm bill, House leaders are now working to shape interim legislation that would aid farmers hit hard by a drought that has devastated large swaths of cropland and threatens livestock operations in the Midwest, lawmakers said on Thursday. 
Even as the idea of new legislation emerged, it remained unclear if lawmakers would use the opportunity to renew existing agriculture programs in the absence of a broader farm bill or would simply pass a disaster aid bill that would provide relief to cattle, pork and poultry farmers, who have been especially hard hit by the drought. Several disaster assistance programs for livestock producers that were in the 2008 farm bill expired last year.
"I do believe the House will address the livestock disaster program that unfortunately in the last farm bill was only authorized for four years," Speaker John A. Boehner said on Thursday. 
This week, the Agriculture Department said that 55 percent of the nation's pasture and range land was now in poor to very poor condition. Agriculture Secretary Tom Vilsack designated 76 additional counties in six states as drought disaster areas, bringing the total for the 2012 crop year to 1,369 counties across 31 states. 
Members of the Senate, which passed its version of the farm bill in May, have been waiting on the House to vote on the bill, and they say they are opposed to extending the current farm bill. Senators said an extension would delay the changes they approved in cutting farm subsidies and food stamps and improving crop insurance. Both the House and the Senate farm bills eliminate the $5 billion-a-year subsidies paid to cotton, grain and soybean growers whether they plant crops or not.
House leaders have delayed the farm bill in hopes of averting a fight between Republicans over a proposal for steep cuts in food stamps and over the potential cost of the bill, which totals $996 billion over the next 10 years. The House bill would cut $16.5 billion from the food stamp program. The Senate bill would cut $4.5 billion.
"If the House intends to send us a bill that will be used to negotiate the farm bill during August, I am open to that approach," Senator Debbie Stabenow, the Michigan Democrat who leads the Agriculture Committee, said in a statement. "However, a short-term extension is bad for farmers and our agricultural economy." 
"If Congress does what Congress always does and kicks the can down the road with a short-term extension, there will be no reform, direct payments will continue, we'll lose the opportunity for major deficit reduction and we'll deliver a real blow to our economic recovery," Ms. Stabenow said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (90%); DROUGHT (90%); ANIMAL FARMING & BREEDING (90%); AGRICULTURAL LAW (90%); AGRICULTURE (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (73%); SOYBEAN FARMING (73%); GRAIN FARMING (73%); POLITICS (73%); AGRICULTURAL INSURANCE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); CROP INSURANCE (72%); POULTRY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (69%); FOOD STAMPS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); AGRICULTURAL OUTPUT (63%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (62%) Agriculture and Farming; Crop Controls and Subsidies; House of Representatives; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: House of Representatives

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); TOM VILSACK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



996 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Green)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: SCIENCE; earth

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Opting for Better Fuel Economy This Year

BYLINE: MATTHEW L. WALD


HIGHLIGHT: The fuel economy of the cars purchased inched up in the first six month, largely because consumers opted for smaller models, an analysis suggests. 

 BODY:
An analysis indicates that the fuel efficiency of vehicles purchased by consumers in the United States set a new record in the first half of this year. It attributed the shift to automakers' offering a wider variety of models with good fuel performance, and to shoppers' reacting to higher gasoline prices by choosing smaller models.
The study was conducted for the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental group that favors stricter gas mileage standards. 
The analysis, by Baum & Associates of West Bloomfield, Mich., calculated that fuel economy reached 23.8 miles per gallon, up 1.1 mile from the first six months of 2011. The study relied on fuel economy data from the University of Michigan and sales data from Ward's Automotive.
Gasoline prices rose steadily from December through April, peaking at $3.93 a gallon, according to a survey by A.A.A. Alan L. Baum, the principal of Baum & Associates, said that auto sales usually decline when fuel prices go up but that this year they had risen.
 Mr. Baum said that from the figures that are available now, it was not possible to determine just how the mileage improvement was achieved, but that it appeared that most of the 1.1-mile-per-gallon gain resulted from better technology, and some from buyers purchasing of smaller vehicles. If small cars traveled two miles more per gallon, other cars 1.5 miles more and light trucks gained 0.5 miles more, that would account for the rise, he said.

 Cars sold in the first half of this year were mostly 2012 model year vehicles, with some 2013's. In the first half of last year, it was mostly 2011's with some 2012's. 
The government calculates fuel economy in a variety of different ways, including values obtained through laboratory treadmill tests and those meant to approximate real-world performance. 
Mr. Baum said that midsize cars had gained 1.2 percentage points of market share in the first six months and that small cars and crossovers gained 0.4 percent. He said he had not analyzed the precise extent to which the gain in fuel economy came from buyers moving to those vehicles instead of others that used more fuel per mile.
But some new models get substantially better mileage that older ones, he said; for example, the 2013 Nissan Altima is rated at 31 miles per gallon, he said, compared with 27 miles per gallon for the 2012 model. 
"We really shouldn't be surprised by this," Mr. Baum said. "Automakers have signed on to increases in fuel economy requirements not because they're nice guys. It's because they're good for business. ''
The Ford F150 "EcoBoost" model, a a six-cylinder vehicle that he said had the performance of an eight-cylinder, is so popular that sales are constrained only by availability, he said. The EcoBoost has a combined city/highway rating of 18 miles per gallon, according to Ford; the standard eight-cylinder engine is rated at 17.
Mr. Baum said that 60 nameplates among the 2012 or 2013 models had a high fuel economy, up from 28 nameplates three years ago. He defined high fuel economy as greater than 30 miles per gallon for compacts and subcompacts, greater than 25 miles per gallon for midsize cars and more than 20 miles per gallon for crossovers.
Luke Tonachel, the senior vehicles analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council, suggested that higher-efficiency vehicles might cost slightly more but were worth it for the purchaser and for the country as a whole. "We'll be investing in the Midwest instead of sending money to the Middle East,'' he said.
Both Mr. Baum and Mr. Tonachel said they expected the government to issue final rules next month for fuel economy for the 2017 to 2025 model years. The fleet average is supposed to rise to 54.5 miles per gallon in the final year.

        
U.S. Formalizes Fuel Economy Standard
        
Honda Is Greenest, Study Suggests
        
Fuel Economy Will Be, Um, Better
        
Enlisting Nanoparticles to Help Replace Oil
        
On Our Radar: 6 More Coal Plants to Close

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); TRENDS (77%); NEW CAR MODELS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); GASOLINE MARKETS (77%); GASOLINE PRICES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (69%); MARKET SHARE (65%) 2012 year models; cars; fuel economy; Automobiles; Economic Conditions and Trends; Fuel Efficiency; Small Cars (Compact, Subcompact and Microcars); Ford Motor Company; Natural Resources Defense Council; University of Michigan; Ford Motor Company|F|NYSE; Business; Living

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (91%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%) Ford Motor Company; Natural Resources Defense Council; University of Michigan

TICKER: Ford Motor Company; F; NYSE

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012



997 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 66 words

HEADLINE: A Sharper Picture of Recession and Recovery

BYLINE: ECONOMIX EDITORS


HIGHLIGHT: The second quarter is in the spotlight when the gross domestic product figures are released on Friday, but there will be an interesting sideshow, too: revised numbers for 2009, 2010 and 2011. We'll have a look at them here on Economix. 

 BODY:
The second quarter is in the spotlight when the gross domestic product figures are released on Friday, but there will be an interesting sideshow, too: revised numbers for 2009, 2010 and 2011. We'll have a look at them here on Economix.

        
Shrinking Like It's 1958
        
Other Ways to Look at G.D.P. and What It Tells Us
        
Texas Is the Future
        
Mapping the Laggards in the Recovery
        
Are the Good Times Never Coming Back?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (92%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (86%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%) Bureau of Economic Analysis; economic growth; Gross Domestic Product; growth; recession; recovery; Recession and Depression; United States Economy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



998 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 205 words

HEADLINE: A Global Steel Giant Scales Back

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: Lakshmi Mittal's company contracts as demand cools. 

 BODY:
"Steel is a notoriously volatile industry," Stanley Reed wrote in The New York Times. "But four years ago, Lakshmi Mittal, the Indian-born tycoon, appeared to have mastered the business." 
"Things are different now, with Europe in a deep economic funk and once-roaring construction markets like India and China also slowing," Mr. Reed wrote. On Wednesday, ArcelorMittal reported "second-quarter operating income of $1.1 billion, on sales of $22.48 billion." 
While the sales were down "10 percent from a year earlier, income was down more than 50 percent as the cost of the industry's raw material, iron ore, rose even as steel prices slumped," he wrote. 
"Clearly, this performance is not acceptable at all," Mr. Mittal said by telephone on Wednesday, while noting that the severity of the various downturns had been unexpected.
The company has already started curtailing production in Europe to match reduced demand. And it is bracing for resistance from unions and governments to other planned cost cuts. Those include the major wage and benefit concessions it is seeking from workers in the United States, where it employs thousands of workers at 12 major facilities in states including Indiana and Pennsylvania. 
Read full article. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MARKETS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%)

COMPANY: ARCELORMITTAL SA (84%)

TICKER: MTS (MCE) (84%); MT (PAR) (84%); MT (NYSE) (84%); MT (AMS) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%)

PERSON: LAKSHMI N MITTAL (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) EUROPE (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



999 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: The Early Word: Retrenchment

BYLINE: ASHLEY SOUTHALL


HIGHLIGHT: Political news from today's Times and around the Web, plus a look at what's happening in Washington. 

 BODY:
In Today's Times:
"It is a retrenchment, not a referendum." That is how one analyst characterized the dynamic of the 2012 House elections in Jennifer Steinhauer's report on this year's contests. Control of the House is up for grabs in November, and Republicans seem more likely than Democrats to capture or retain the 218 seats needed to claim a majority, she writes. However, unlike the partisan tidal waves that characterized the previous three elections, individual efforts are likely to weigh heavily in the outcomes of dozens of contests this year.
As President Obama and his likely Republican rival, Mitt Romney, squabble over who is more American, their negative personal attacks have underscored how "powerful undercurrents of identity, wealth, race and religion are shaping this election," Jeremy W. Peters reports. The terrain is "risky but potentially fertile," he writes, but both campaigns seem wary of going too far.
After rejecting a Republican plan that would extend the Bush-era tax cuts for all incomes on Wednesday, the Senate approved along party lines a Democratic version that would allow the cuts to lapse for wealthier households. The House is expected to vote on a measure to extend all of the tax cuts next week, but Jonathan Weisman explains that the election-minded lawmakers are unlikely to get serious about solving the tax debacle before November.
Extreme weather in the United States is expected to send food prices higher next year, increasing the pressure on Congress to enact a five-year farm bill before the current legislation expires in September, Annie Lowrey and Ron Nixon report. The Senate has passed its version of the bill, while in the House, intraparty division among Republicans over the cost of the legislation has stalled progress.
The Obama administration is teaming up with some of the insurers it once vilified in a broad effort to root out fraud in federal health care programs, Robert Pear writes. By sharing pools of data from Medicare, Medicaid and private insurance, the administration and the insurers hope to be able to mine the data for fraudulent claims.
Around the Web:
The Wall Street Journal profiles Mitt Romney's efforts to woo American expatriates, a donor bloc that has so far favored President Obama.
Happening in Washington:
Economic data expected this morning includes weekly jobless claims and durable goods for June at 8:30 a.m, followed at 10 by weekly mortgage rates and pending home sales for June.
Also at 10, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner is scheduled to testify before the Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee.
Simultaneously, a House Homeland Security subcommittee will hear from officials from the Department of Homeland Security and the Government Accountability Office about the government's strategy for detecting nuclear weapons.
In the wake of the deadly shooting in Aurora, Colo., gun control advocates have planned a 2 p.m. press conference at the National Press Club to push for tightening gun control regulations.

        
The Early Word: Foreign Policy
        
The Early Word: No Surprises
        
The Early Word: Persistent Woes
        
The Early Word: Ties That Bind
        
The Early Word: Clarity

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MEDICARE (76%); INSURANCE CLAIMS (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); GUN CONTROL (72%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); INSURANCE (67%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); DATA MINING (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); MEDICAID (64%); FOOD PRICES (64%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (64%); HEALTH CARE (62%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (62%); DURABLE GOODS (61%); AURORA MOVIE THEATER SHOOTINGS (61%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%); RELIGION (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%) The Early Word; The Caucus

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (52%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2012



1000 of 1182 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 26, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Romney's Remarks on Olympics Cause Stir in London

BYLINE: ASHLEY PARKER


HIGHLIGHT: Mitt Romney's carefully choreographed trip to London caused a diplomatic stir when he called the British Olympic preparations "disconcerting" and questioned whether Londoners would turn out to support the games. 

 BODY:
LONDON - Mitt Romney's trip to London was supposed to be about the Olympics. And it was - but not quite in the way he had expected.
Mr. Romney's choreographed visit here caused a diplomatic stir after his comments on the British Olympics preparations and whether Londoners would turn out to support the Games prompted a rebuke from Prime MinisterDavid Cameron and grabbed the attention of the news media.
"There are a few things that were disconcerting, the stories about the private security firm not having enough people, the supposed strike of the immigration and customs officials, that obviously is not something which is encouraging," Mr. Romney said in an interview with NBC on Wednesday.
That brought a tart rejoinderfrom Mr. Cameron: "We are holding an Olympic Games in one of the busiest, most active, bustling cities anywhere in the world. Of course it's easier if you hold an Olympic Games in the middle of nowhere." The allusion was to Salt Lake City, which hosted the Games that Mr. Romney oversaw in 2002.
Mr. Romney's comments came on the first day of a highly anticipated trip that was expected to test his skills in foreign diplomacy, terrain on which he is not necessarily as comfortable as when dealing with economic issues. His remarks quickly threatened to take over the news from the overseas trip, which will also include a visit to Jerusalem to meet with Israeli leaders on Sunday and a stop in Poland.
Later, in brief remarks before his meeting with the Labour Party leader, Ed Miliband, Mr. Romney seemed to tone down his comments.
"My experience with regards to the Olympics is it is impossible for absolutely no mistakes to occur," he said. "Of course there will be errors from time to time, but those are all overshadowed by the extraordinary demonstrations of courage, character and determination by the athletes. The Games are, after all, about the athletes, the volunteers and the people of the community that come together to celebrate those athletes."
But the British press had already pounced. News of Mr. Romney's remarks led The Times of London's Web site at one point under the headline "PM rebuffs Romney over readiness for Olympics," and The Guardian's Web site offered up a story titled "Romney's Olympics blunder stuns No. 10 and hands gift to Obama."
MayorBoris Johnson even used the candidate's words to rally thousands of Londoners at the end of the 69-day Olympic torch relay in Hyde Park, saying, "There's a guy called Mitt Romney who wants to know whether we're ready."
Such overseas trips can be diplomatic minefields for politicians, but they also can offer opportunities, as when PresidentJohn F. Kennedy won over French news media, telling reporters in France that he was "the man who accompaniedJacqueline Kennedy to Paris." For Mr. Romney, this is a chance to burnish his foreign policy credentials, a goal that now looks a bit more difficult to achieve.
At the White House, officials were privately chortling over Mr. Romney's remarks.Jay Carney, the White House press secretary, said senior officials had met Thursday morning to discuss security at the Olympics, then added that during a meeting with staffers,President Obama "made it clear that he has the utmost confidence in our close friend and ally, the United Kingdom, as they finalize preparation to host the London Olympics."
Mr. Carney never mentioned Mr. Romney, but the timing of the Olympics announcement raised eyebrows, prompting one reporter to ask Mr. Carney if it had anything to do with Mr. Romney's remarks. The press secretary replied: "I'm just trying to fill you in on the president's day."
Mr. Cameron praised his nation's performance in hosting the games, which get under way this week.
"This is a time of some economic difficulty for the U.K., but look at what we are capable of achieving as a nation even at a difficult economic time," he said. "I think we will show the whole world not just that we come together as a United Kingdom, but also we're extremely good at welcoming people from across the world."
Mr. Cameron added: "I will obviously make those points to Mitt Romney. I look forward to meeting him."
After his meeting with the prime minister, Mr. Romney emerged from 10 Downing Street and further refined his remarks.
"My experience as an Olympic organizer is that there are always a few very small things that end up going not quite right in the first day or so," he said. "Those get ironed out and then when the Games themselves begin and the athletes take over, all the mistakes that the organizing committee - and I made a few - all of those are overwhelmed by the many things that the athletes carry out that capture the spirit of the games."
He also mentioned that he had met with the head of the MI6 foreign intelligence agency to discuss Syria and "the hope for a more peaceful future for that country" - another comment the British press seized on as a gaffe because, they wrote, visiting dignitaries typically do not discuss their private meetings with the MI6 chief.
In his original remarks on Wednesday, Mr. Romney also seemed to question the enthusiasm of the British public for the Games, which will include a horse owned by his wife,Ann, competing in the dressage competition.
"Do they come together and celebrate the Olympic moment?" he asked about the British people. "That's something which we only find out once the Games actually begin."
The remarks came as Mr. Romney's campaign had hoped to use the stop in London to remind voters back home about his success in overseeing the Salt Lake City Olympics in 2002.
In addition to making an aide available to provide details of Mr. Romney's meetings, which included talk of the euro zone crisis and other international concerns, the campaign sent out short general memos, one of which described Mr. Romney's get-together on Thursday with Foreign Secretary William Hague, saying it dealt with issues like the importance of free trade.
"Also worth noting," the e-mail read, "they both discussed their mutual love of Kit Kat bars."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (92%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (89%); POLITICS (86%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); OLYMPIC TORCH PROTESTS (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); TRENDS (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); IMMIGRATION (70%); CAUCUSES (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (55%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (55%) Cameron, David; Miliband, Edward S; Romney, Mitt; Economic Conditions and Trends; Olympic Games; Olympic Games (2012); Presidential Election of 2012; Labour Party (Great Britain); National Broadcasting Co; Times of London; Great Britain; London (England); Salt Lake City (Utah); The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: Labour Party (Great Britain); National Broadcasting Co; Times of London

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (93%); DAVID CAMERON (91%); ED MILIBAND (79%); BARACK OBAMA (50%) Cameron, David; Miliband, Edward S; Romney, Mitt

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (93%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (54%) UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED KINGDOM (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (86%); ISRAEL (79%); ENGLAND (74%); POLAND (69%) Great Britain; London (England); Salt Lake City (Utah)

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2012

 
