

601 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: June 19-24

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

THE ECONOMY
 
Suddenly, All Eyes Are on the Dollar (Just Look Down)
Currency traders took the markets on a wild ride last week, with the dollar crossing the 100-yen barrier for the first time in the postwar era. And central banks, it seems, can do little. By Friday, the White House decided to intervene and got 16 central banks to join it in a $5-billion shopping trip for dollars, but traders didn't even blink, as the dollar hit a '94 low of 1.58 marks. The next step, of course, could well be for the Federal Reserve to tighten the screws again in early July, and this prospect didn't make the stock market happy at all, as the Dow industrials plunged 62 points on Friday, ending a dismal week in which it lost 140 points, or close to 4 percent. President Clinton couldn't figure out why all this was happening, saying the dollar's fall was "puzzling a lot of economists." He insisted, probably correctly, that the American economy "is performing so well." But for today's hair-trigger markets, nothing is ever remotely that simple. 

Health Care: Limping Onward
Health care legislation has become like an ambulance crossing a war zone. Snipers abound, two tires are flat, the windshield's smashed, but if it can just get through, maybe all can be patched up. In last week's skirmishes, the Senate Finance Committee, trying to break a deadlock, flirted with the idea of making individuals, not employers, buy coverage. This drew quick fire from a coalition of labor and consumer groups, who said middle-income people would get the short end. But Senator Thomas Daschle cut right to the chase when he said, "It keeps the process going." And the Clintons, still vowing universal coverage, floated above the fray, hoping that in the end their vision would be fulfilled.
 
John Sculley, Part-Timer
This is the 90's. Good jobs vanish, yesterday's hotshot drives a cab, many settle for part-time work. And it's not just the other guy any more. Last week none other than John Sculley, once king of the technology hill, fell into step by taking a part-time job at Kodak. The former Apple Computer chairman took a humiliating detour recently by heading Spectrum Information Technologies, then beating a hasty retreat, pleading ignorance, when all sorts of messy questions popped up about the company. Now he'll spend about a quarter of his time helping Kodak, in the midst of a back-to-basics blitz, build up its digital imaging business. One wonders if, unlike most part-timers, he gets health benefits.
 
Bennington's Reality Seminar
When a baby-boom parent has a dark-of-night panic attack, chances are it's brought on by that monster looming too-few years away: college tuition. But small colleges have nightmares, too: not enough baby-bust kids to pay those fancy tuitions. And if the school's tucked off in a bucolic corner, it can't lure the older student who's dipping back into the books. Take Bennington. At $25,800, its annual cost is among the highest, but its enrollment is down. Something had to give, and last week it did. In a drastic effort to close a $1 million deficit, it's cutting tuition, reducing faculty and scrapping tenure. If this spreads, the tuition sticker could soon be less of a shock.
 
Trial by Jeans
To pitch No Excuses jeans, you've got to hit just the right level of naughtiness -- not too much or too little -- and, of course, be famous. Donna Rice, yes. Marla Maples, definitely. Tonya Harding? Sorry. Last week Paula Jones joined this galaxy, accepting $50,000 for showing up at a press conference sporting No Excuses jeans and T-shirt. The check will help with her legal bills, and half goes to a center for abused women. Will her new image help in her case against President Clinton? Who knows. Mrs. Jones said she was unaware of prior No Excuses ads, saying only, "I knew the company favors women's rights."
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
Japan's Economy, on the Mend?
For the moment, at least, Japan's economy seems to have shaken off its slump. Last week came a report that G.D.P. grew at a surprisingly strong 3.9 percent rate in the first quarter, and a real bright spot was a hefty rise in consumer spending. Japan, it seems, is learning about discounting, and customers are taking to it just as Americans have. But while one official assessment was that "the worst period is over," caution is still the word. The economy is often strong in the first quarter, only to fall later, and the strong yen could make it awfully hard to sell exports.
 
Wiring the Global Village
This "global village" stuff is getting serious. Why, they're even playing soccer in the United States, land of the sacred football. The phone giants badly want to be in the thick of it when this village's corporate citizens want to communicate with one another: MCI just got the go-ahead for a link with British Telecom, and Sprint made a deal with the French and German phone companies. AT&T has been trying to get in the act, too, and last week it teamed up with phone companies in Switzerland, Sweden and the Netherlands. AT&T's deal is more humble than those of its rivals, though, so it's still searching for more.
 
A Drop of Microsoft Blood
Microsoft is mortal after all: a small company called Stac Electronics has actually drawn blood. A Federal judge recently ordered Microsoft to recall two versions of its MS-DOS software that a jury had found to infringe Stac patents -- an order that could have wreaked havoc on sales. But last week Microsoft descended from it mountain and settled with Stac, agreeing to pay $1 million a month in royalties and invest nearly $40 million in Stac. That's a minor bruise for Microsoft -- and, who knows, that investment may even wind up being a good one. But the deal certainly emboldens its once-quaking rivals.
 
Lotus Takes Its Lumps
One of Microsoft's rivals, though, had big troubles of its own last week. Late on Monday, Lotus made a surprise announcement that its quarterly earnings would fall short of expectations, and the next day Lotus shares plunged 28 percent. They slipped even more by the week's end, to close at $34.25, a far cry from their lofty $86.50 just three months ago. The culprit, Lotus said: its Windows desktop software was suffering in its competition with Microsoft products. Why? Because in this industry of day-old antiques, Lotus's package, now more than a year old, is from the dark ages, while Microsoft put out a fresh version this year.
 
Again, Caterpillar vs. the U.A.W.
Caterpillar and the U.A.W. just can't seem to work things out. In the last 16 labor contracts, there have been 14 strikes, with the latest one coming last week at about a dozen plants. As the bitterness mounted, Caterpillar tried to get its assembly lines moving by using supervisors and other white-collar workers, which prompted one striker to recall, "The last time they tried this, the foremen wrecked some of the machinery."
 
Philip Morris, Undaunted
The tobacco industry is circling its wagons. There had been talk at Philip Morris of splitting tobacco from other businesses, but the board recently shelved that idea. And last weekend its chairman, Michael Miles, a nonsmoker who'd headed Kraft when Philip Morris bought it, resigned unexpectedly -- apparently because he'd backed that split. And his successors hit the ground smoking, with Geoffrey Bible, the new chief executive, vowing to "defend our industry and the rights of our consumers as briskly as we possibly can."
 
Tastes Great, Not Addictive
The tobacco industry also came under attack last week as David Kessler, the F.D.A. commissioner, testified before a House panel that Brown & Williamson had manipulated its cigarettes' addictive nature by using a high-nicotine tobacco. But Thomas Sandefur, Brown & Williamson's chairman, was not about to let that pass. In his own testimony, he called Dr. Kessler's charges "a crusade for the sake of a political agenda" and "grandstanding." He conceded the existence of the high-nicotine tobacco, but insisted that the goal was better taste, not greater addiction. And nicotine, he repeated, is not addictive anyway.
 
Now, G.M. as Mother-in-Law
Most people wouldn't equate buying a car with joining a "family." But they wouldn't be reckoning on that odd car called the Saturn. Well, not odd car, exactly -- it's much like other cars -- but the ads make buying one seem like bonding, like joining a cult. Saturn took the cultishness to an odd extreme last week, inviting Saturn owners to a "family get-together" at its factory in Spring Hill, Tenn. And, in clear proof that people love to belong, no matter the cause, thousands planned to make the trek. One hopes that afterward, in a sea of Saturns, they all found their cars.
 
A Kidder Head Had to Roll
It was nothing personal, really. Michael Carpenter is a friend of his. But John Welch, G.E.'s chairman, said last week that he had to replace Mr. Carpenter as Kidder, Peabody's chief executive because, well, securities are different from refrigerators. When other people's money is involved, there must be total confidence about a firm's future. After the Joseph Jett scandal, that confidence was less than total. "Though they have no basis in reality," Mr. Welch said, perceptions "can become reality." So a corner-office head had to roll, with two G.E. executives taking the reins for now.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William Murray, Philip Morris chairman (John Abbott)
 
Graphs showing daily closing price of the dollar, in yen from Jan. to June., daily closing stock prices for Lotus from June 3rd to the 24th (Source: Datatream) and percentage change in Japan's gross domestic product. (Source: J.P. Morgan)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SPCL (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: SITI SITES.COM INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCIES (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DOLLAR (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); STOCK INDEXES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); HEALTH CARE LAW (66%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (64%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (63%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); TOM DASCHLE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



602 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1547 words

HEADLINE: Profile;
From Firewood to Environmental Empire in 14 Years

BYLINE: By JOHN HOLUSHA 

DATELINE: FALL RIVER, Mass.

 BODY:
WHEN he was an 18-year-old freshman at Harvard University in 1980, Bill Haney noticed that a lot of dormitory rooms had fireplaces but no firewood. "So I borrowed $1,000 and shipped two tractor-trailer loads of firewood into Harvard Yard," he recalled.
He worried about the gamble, but Mr. Haney's business instincts proved sound. The wood sold out, he made a $2,000 profit and his career as an entrepreneur was launched. 
 He started looking for bigger opportunities. He was studying the history of science, which nurtured his belief in the importance, socially and economically, of technological change. Environmental technology looked promising, and he soon became intrigued by techniques for breaking down air pollutants, like the oxides of nitrogen, into harmless nitrogen and oxygen gases.
Mr. Haney borrowed $10,000 from "a friend's girlfriend's father," he says, and with technology licensed mainly from a research organization, he founded the company in 1980 that eventually became Fuel Tech Inc. N.V.
He sold out seven years later, pocketing $15 million, and then went on to found two other environmental companies, Energy Biosystems Corporation in 1989 and Molten Metal Technology Inc., also in 1989.
Today, at age 32, William M. Haney 3d is one of America's leading environmental entrepreneurs, and he suffers no shortage of ambition. "I want to be the leading developer of technology to handle waste streams," Mr. Haney says.
Molten Metal, which has pioneered a method for using molten metal to reduce hazardous wastes to useful industrial gases, is one of the hottest environmental start-ups in recent years. The fledgling company, which sold shares to the public last year, has a current stock-market value of about $450 million. Its technology has impressed several well-known big companies, including Du Pont, Rollins Environmental Services, and L'Air Liquide S.A., which have set up alliances with Molten Metal.
Mr. Haney, by all accounts, is a skilled technology-spotter and deal maker. But the question now, analysts say, is whether he can really run a business, moving Molten Metal from concept to commercial success.
The company has generated plenty of enthusiasm on Wall Street and among its corporate partners, and Mr. Haney is its principal salesman. The company, based in Waltham, Mass., has not yet made any money, although it has landed a half-dozen orders for its waste-processing systems, which will cost about $25 million apiece. Molten Metal hopes to begin installing its systems next year.
But Douglas Augenthaler, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company, observes, "It is not operating until it operates. The big pressure on Bill is whether he can finish on time, and have it work as advertised."
Mr. Haney, the chairman and chief executive of Molten Metal, is confident. "We've hit all our milestones so far," he said. "Analysts are saying we will become profitable sometime in the next year to year-and-a-half, and we are comfortable with that."
Intense and glib, Mr. Haney shows up for an interview at the company's demonstration factory here wearing a sports coat over a white T-shirt and blue jeans. During discussions, he often jumps up from a conference room table and walks rapidly to an easel where he sketches charts describing the availability of capital for new ventures or complex chemical processes. Colleagues say that Mr. Haney's restless energy leads him to occasionally conduct meetings on the move, lecturing as he walks the streets near the company's offices.
The son of a chemistry teacher at Portsmouth Abbey, a preparatory school in Portsmouth, R.I., Mr. Haney says that as a teen-ager his first love was sports. But injuries prompted him to channel his energy elsewhere. "I broke one shoulder playing ice hockey and the other playing lacrosse," he recalled. "I could not play those sports anymore, so I focused on business."
At Harvard, Mr. Haney's entrepreneurial career slowed the pace of his studies. "I took one semester off completely," he said, "It was just getting to be too much." . Mr. Haney started with the class of 1984 but did not complete his degree requirements until 1986.
Some Harvard connections linger. Benjamin T. Downs, the vice president for finance and administration at Molten Metal, was one of Mr. Haney's college roommates.
The year after he graduated, Mr. Haney sold most of Fuel Tech to Nalco Chemical Company, leaving with $15 million and a wealth of hard-earned experience. When he sold Fuel Tech, the Stamford, Conn.-based company had 200 employees and, Mr. Haney says, was near profitability but not yet in the black. "I started it when I was 18 years old, and I made so many mistakes," Mr. Haney said.
FINANCIALLY secure and still just 25, Mr. Haney looked beyond business. He married Anne Gilson and then traveled, worked on Al Gore's presidential campaign and attempted to set up an environmental school in Zimbabwe. (The government did not grant him a permit.)
Yet he still kept looking for promising environmental technologies. He found one in a method for using microorganisms to remove sulfur from coal and oil. Sulfur is an impurity in fossil fuels that is now removed from oil at vast refineries, which consume huge amounts of energy. The microbe desulfurization process was initially developed by the Institute of Gas Technology in Chicago, and it was the basis of Energy Biosystems.
The company, headquartered near Houston, is in the process of building a pilot plant to see if microbe desulfurization can work outside the laboratory. If successful, Mr. Haney says, it could alter the way fuels are refined, eventually replacing energy-intensive oil refineries. Although he led Energy Biosystems in its early years, he left its board in March to concentrate on running Molten Metal.
About the same time that Mr. Haney found the microbe desulfurization technology, John T. Preston, the head of the technology licensing office at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, introduced him to Christopher J. Nagle, an M.I.T. graduate student.
Before he went to M.I.T., Mr. Nagle, who is now 36, worked as as an energy manager at the U.S. Steel Company. While there he had experimented with injecting old tires into vats of molten iron as a method for adding carbon, which is needed to convert iron to steel, and as a petroleum-based source of cheap energy.
The experiment wasn't a clear-cut success in as a way to improve the efficiency of steel making. Still, the effort did show Mr. Nagle that molten metal, at 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit, can be quite efficient in breaking down complex molecules into their constituent atoms. So Mr. Nagle realized that the molten-metal process could be used to reduce complex, hazardous materials, like PCB's, into useful industrial gases such as hydrogen gas and carbon monoxide.
At M.I.T., Mr. Nagle sought out Mr. Preston, the licensing expert, for help in commercializing the technology. Mr. Preston put him in touch with Mr. Haney. Together they founded Molten Metal in 1989. The company's process promises a big environmental, and economic, improvement over existing methods of getting rid of hazardous waste. Unlike burying the waste or burning it, Molten Metal intends to produce useful byproducts.
The company's technology could also be useful in cleaning up the vast amounts of radioactive waste left over from the nation's nuclear weapons program. Joseph M. Browne, a vice president at Molten Metal and a retired captain in the United States Navy, says that when nuclear waste is fed into the brick-lined vats holding the molten metal, the radioactive elements concentrate in the slag that forms on the top of molten pool. When cooled, the slag becomes a glassy solid, immobilizing the radioactive elements for easier disposal.
At Molten Metal, which now has 160 employees, Mr. Haney has tried to put together an organization that makes up for his own lack of experience in plant operations. Many of those working for him are considerably older. "Look behind Haney and you will see a lot of people with gray hair," said Mr. Augenthaler, the Oppenheimer analyst. "Its not all blue jeans and young guys."
And it is mainly Mr. Haney who sells the company to prospective recruits as well as to Wall Street. "Bill Haney has a tremendous ability to enroll people in his vision," said Hugh Holman, an analyst at Alex. Brown & Sons in Baltimore. "He gets people to believe. And that seems to be how he has managed to hire senior people who can get the job done."
Mr. Haney said he wants a company staffed by skilled business people who are also believers in Molten Metal. "I would never hire a person motivated by money alone, because they will leave for money," he said. "We want people with a passion for what we are doing."
 
William M. Haney 3d
 
 Born: April 9, 1962; Salem, Mass.
 
 Education: B.A., history of technology, Harvard University.
 
 Family: married, one daughter.
 
 Home: Whalen, Mass.
 
 Cars: Mercedes-Benz 260, Ford Explorer.
 
 Favorite book: "The Man Who Planted Trees," by Jean Giono.
 
 Interests: Plays all racquet sports; mourns the Boston Red Sox and cheers Harvard hockey.
 
 People most admired: Robert Swanson (founder of Genentech), Benjamin Franklin.

GRAPHIC: Photo: William M. Haney in front of a model of his waste-processing system. (Michael Quan for The New York Times)
 
Diagram: "Recycling Waste" shows Molten Metal Technology's catalytic extracyion process, used to convert industrial waste into raw mateials for commercial use. (Source: Molten Metal Technology)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: FTEK (NASDAQ) (69%); AI (PAR) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4953 REFUSE SYSTEMS (83%); NAICS562111 SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (83%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (69%); NAICS423730 WARM AIR HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (69%); NAICS333413 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL FAN & BLOWER & AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (69%); SIC5075 WARM AIR HEATING & AIR-CONDITIONING EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (69%); SIC3564 INDUSTRIAL & COMMERCIAL FANS & BLOWERS & AIR PURIFICATION EQUIPMENT (69%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (68%); NAICS325120 INDUSTRIAL GAS MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (64%); SIC2813 INDUSTRIAL GASES (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); NAICS562920 MATERIALS RECOVERY FACILITIES (58%); NAICS562112 HAZARDOUS WASTE COLLECTION (58%); NAICS423930 RECYCLABLE MATERIAL MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MOLTEN METAL TECHNOLOGY INC MOLTEN METAL TECHNOLOGY INC (83%); FUEL TECH INC (69%); ENCHIRA BIOTECHNOLOGY CORP (68%); AIR LIQUIDE SA (64%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (61%); SAFETY-KLEEN INC (58%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOLTEN METAL TECHNOLOGY INC HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (90%); WATER POLLUTION (74%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (74%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (74%); INDUSTRIAL GASES (74%); AIR POLLUTANTS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING & CONSULTING (74%); AIR POLLUTION (74%); HISTORY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (69%); INDUSTRIAL GAS MFG (69%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (67%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (61%); EXECUTIVES (60%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (55%); NITROGEN OXIDES (54%); 

PERSON: HOLUSHA, JOHN; HANEY, WILLIAM M; HANEY, WILLIAM M (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) JOHN HANEY (93%); WILLIAM M HANEY III (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



603 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 960 words

HEADLINE: Technology;
The Creative Force Behind Japan's Computer U.

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: AIZU-WAKAMATSU, Japan

 BODY:
TOSIYASU L. KUNII, one of Japan's most prolific and outspoken computer scientists, says there is a reason that Japanese companies do not design successful computer operating systems or original microprocessors. Japan's education system, he says, churns out uncreative graduates.
Others have made similar observations, but Professor Kunii is doing something about it. He quit his job at the prestigious Tokyo University to start his own computer college. 
 The University of Aizu, which opened its doors in April 1993, has only about 500 students and two main departments -- hardware and software. It is in the middle of nowhere, three hours by train from Tokyo. But it could serve as a model for the reform of higher education in Japan.
While most Japanese universities have predominantly Japanese faculties, Aizu has professors from 14 foreign countries who account for about 60 percent of the teaching staff. This includes 16 Russians, so many that Fujitsu Ltd. declined to give the university access to one of its supercomputers because it feared violating restrictions on providing technology to what was once the Soviet Union.
Classes are taught mainly in English to prepare students to work in an international language. And students are encouraged to do individual research as freshmen, not wait until they are juniors or seniors.
It may be Japan's most electronically equipped school, with about 700 engineering workstations, enough to provide one to each student. Most of the computers are American, mainly from Sun Microsystems.
None of this would seem radical in the United States. But in Japan, "it's completely different from anything that's ever been done," said David K. Kahaner, who watches technology in Japan for Washington.
But change has not been easy. While there is some camaraderie and a pioneering spirit, there is also unhappiness. Some Japanese faculty members are upset with Professor Kunii, who is president of the university, for departing from tradition. Some Western professors complain that the administration has not departed enough.
Professor Kunii, a chemist by training, drifted into computers and became one of Japan's foremost experts on data bases and graphics. At Tokyo University, he helped start the information science department.
Ideas flow from the 56-year-old professor in all directions, so it is hard to keep him focused. Unlike many Japanese, Professor Kunii is not modest or indirect.
The formation of the University of Aizu comes as Japan is trying to improve higher education. Until now, the system had been charged with producing an educated work force.
"The job of Japanese universities is to import knowledge, translate and disseminate it," Professor Kunii said. "Professors don't need to discover anything. It's a very easy life." But with Japan now roughly on a par with the United States and Europe, there is a growing recognition that Japan must do more pioneering research.
While an American university will try to attract the best faculty members from around the world, the staff of a typical Japanese college is almost exclusively Japanese. There are only 279 foreigners out of 40,000 full-time professors, associate professors and lecturers at nearly 100 universities supported by the Government.
The problem for computer education, Professor Kunii said, is that in Japan computer science is not recognized as a discipline. As a result, he said, Japan produces only 30 Ph.D.'s a year in pure computer science.
The University of Aizu began as a project of the prefecture, Japan's equivalent of a state, to spur economic development. Professor Kunii was recruited to serve on the planning committee for the university and later drafted to be its president.
One reason so many foreign professors came here was that it was difficult to recruit Japanese academics for an unproven university. In a land of lifetime employment, many Japanese professors did not like Professor Kunii's notion that all faculty members would undergo a review for tenure after three years.
Among the foreign professors there is "enough dissatisfaction to be perceptible," said Harvey Abramson, a professor of software who previously taught at the University of British Columbia in Canada. In a Western university, he added, the faculty has a large say in how things are run. But at Aizu, the power rests with the bureaucrats from the Fukushima Prefecture Government.
Professor Abramson said that Professor Kunii, despite his wish to be a reformer, "seems hamstrung by the way things have been done here."
The Aizu faculty is doing some innovative research. Most of the Russian teachers, for instance, are leaders in the development of self-timed computers, in which the components are not synchronized by a centralized clock. This new design could allow for faster operation and lower power consumption.
But many challenges must still be overcome if Aizu is to have an impact on computer science training in Japan. So far the university has only freshmen and sophomores. Without graduate students, it is hard for professors to do research. There are plans for a graduate school, but not for several years.
And while the prefectural government is providing research financing for three years, thereafter the professors will have to fend for themselves.
Its big draw seems to be its computers. Hachiro Meguro, a freshman, said he chose Aizu because he heard that each student would have access to a workstation 24 hours a day.
He and the others students -- of whom 90 percent are male -- often work on computers until early in the morning or on weekends, just as computer nerds do in the United States. That could be the best sign yet that more creative Japanese programmers are on the way.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tosiyasu L. Kunii, head of Aizu, stresses research. (Andrew Pollack/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FUJ (LSE) (84%); 6702 (TSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF AIZU FUJITSU LTD (84%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (54%); UNIVERSITY OF AIZU (58%); TOKYO UNIVERSITY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF AIZU UNIVERSITY OF AIZU (58%); TOKYO UNIVERSITY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (76%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ENGINEERING (78%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (78%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); LABOR FORCE (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); INFORMATION SCIENCE (73%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; KUNII, TOSIYASU L (PROF) ANN LIVERMORE (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



604 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1741 words

HEADLINE: It Takes More Than a Visa to Do Business in Mexico

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA 

DATELINE: MONTERREY, Mexico

 BODY:
SELDOM do either marriages or business alliances develop without crises. Still, when Corning and the giant Mexican glass manufacturer Vitro made a cross-border alliance two and a half years ago, it seemed a blessed union.
"Vitro and Corning share a customer-oriented philosophy and remarkably similar corporate cultures" -- that was the enthusiastic toast offered at the time by Julio Escamez, a Vitro executive. Both companies had long histories of successful joint ventures, both were globally oriented and both had founding families still at their centers. 
 In February, however, Corning handed back Vitro's $130 million dowry and called off the joint venture. "The cultures didn't match," said Francisco Chevez, an analyst with Smith Barney Shearson in New York. "It was a marriage made in hell."
The 25-month union was hurt by constant cultural clashes. Corning managers were sometimes left waiting for important decisions about marketing and sales because in the Mexican culture only top managers could make them, and at Vitro those people were busy with other matters. Vitro's sales approach was less aggressive, the remnant of years in a closed economy, and this sometimes clashed with the pragmatic approach Corning had developed over decades of competition.
To varying degrees, such cultural issues have plagued many mergers and alliances with their roots in the North American Free Trade Agreement. "Mexico initially appears to be the United States except that people speak Spanish," said Harley Shaiken, a labor economist who often works in Mexico. "That's just not the case, which everyone finds out in the short term rather than the long term."
The trade pact may have created false expectations about how much like the United States Mexico has become. In discussing cultural differences, it's difficult not to slip into stereotypes about "manana" Mexicans who move at a slower pace. But what the gap separating the two business cultures really amounts to is a different approach to work, reflected in everything from scheduling to decision-making to etiquette.
When Banc One of Columbus, Ohio, was contracted to assist Bancomer, one of Mexico's largest banks, in setting up a consumer credit card operation, it found that cultural differences made working difficult because simple things like scheduling meetings became ballets of clashing customs. The Americans were used to eating lunch at their desks, but in Mexico City, bankers go out, often for hours, for leisurely meals. The solution: full lunch in the company dining rooms.
There was also a problem with schedules because Mexicans, with their long lunches, typically have a much longer work day, starting at 9 and often lasting until 9 at night. So Bancomer executives wanted to hold 7:30 p.m. meetings, and even then were often late, but Banc One advisers wanted to be home by that time. The solution: Meetings could be held into the evening, but a piggy bank was placed on the center of the table and anyone arriving late had to pay a few pesos per minute.
In the Corning venture, the Mexicans sometimes saw the Americans as too direct, while Vitro managers, in their dogged pursuit of politeness, sometimes seemed to the Americans unwilling to acknowledge problems and faults. The Mexicans sometimes thought Corning moved too fast; the Americans felt Vitro was too slow.
But it wasn't just cultural differences that undid the alliance. Added complications came from a strong peso, increased overseas competition and a rethinking of marketing strategies by both companies. But the cultural disparities hurt the companies' ability to react to a fast-changing market, and in the end led both sides to throw in the towel.
Corning and Vitro continue to market each other's products and are reluctant to rehash their squabbles. But the abrupt end of the alliance still has them trying to figure out exactly what went wrong.
"We've reflected on this a lot ourselves," said John W. Loose, chairman of the Corning Consumer Products Company, the successor to Corning-Vitro in the United States.
Corning is most often associated with oven-ready glassware but has diversified into fiber optics, environmental products and laboratory services. Vitro, Mexico's largest industrial group, makes dozens of products, including beer bottles, automobile windshields, and, in a joint venture with Whirlpool, washing machines.
Although both are aggressive, global concerns, their cultural differences are sometimes quite obvious. Take their headquarters. Corning's offices in upstate New York are in a modern glass-enclosed building, while Vitro's headquarters in Monterrey, often thought of as Mexico's Pittsburgh, are in a replica of a 16th-century convent, with artwork, arched ceilings and antique reproductions.
Another difference quite obvious from the beginning was the manner of making decisions, and the time it took to make them. Vitro and other Mexican businesses are much more hierarchical, with loyalty to fathers and patrons somehow carried over to the modern corporation. As a matter of either loyalty or tradition, decisions are often left either to a member of the controlling family or to top executives, while middle-level managers are often not asked their opinions.
"If we were looking at a distribution decision, or a customer decision," said Mr. Loose, "we typically would have a group of people in a room, they would do an assessment, figure alternatives and make a decision, and I as chief executive would never know about it. My experience on the Mexican side is that someone in the organization would have a solution in mind, but then the decision had to be kicked up a few levels."
Even the way they have responded to the failure of the venture shows how different the cultures sometimes are. Americans are normally willing to discuss what went wrong and learn from it, while Mexicans are often reluctant to criticize anyone, especially a partner, preferring simply to focus on the fact that the marketing arrangement between the companies continues in spite of the breakup. In interviews, Vitro executives expressed dismay that Mr. Loose had spoken so openly. "It is unfortunate that he made those comments," one Vitro executive said in private.
The president of Vitro, Eduardo Martens, denied that corporate cultures in Mexico and the United States differ any more than the cultures of any two corporations. But in an interview with the Harvard Business Review last year, before his comments could be taken as being in any way critical of Corning, he said, "Business in Mexico is done on a consensus basis, very genteel and sometimes slow by U.S. standards."
Cultural differences generally, said Richard N. Sinkin, a corporate consultant, are "the No. 1 problem for doing business in Mexico." Though that may be an exaggeration, it underscores the difficulty of transferring a culture across the border. His own experience, he said, bears that out. He is bilingual and often works in Mexico, but has found that it isn't always easy to get paid because the Mexican view of contracts differs markedly from the one commonly held in the United States.
In Mexico, the terms of a contract "are kind of ideal things that you strive to achieve," he said, "while in the U.S. they are law."
In general, corporate style is more formal in Mexico than in the United States. Titles are common, and nearly everyone is "licenciado," which loosely refers to having any professional training. Forgetting the honorific can be seen as a serious insult.
While executives in Mexico can expect the unquestioned loyalty of employees, outsiders are often viewed with mistrust. Horace E. Scherer, director general of Hobart Dayton Mexicana, the Mexican subsidiary of the Hobart Corporation, said his salespeople must often make four trips to complete one transaction because of that lack of trust. To sell the company's scales and other equipment, a salesperson starts with a visit to the client's top official. If a sale is made, a representative of the company itself must deliver the goods because the customer won't accept delivery from DHL or some other service. If all the papers are in order on delivery, the company representative is told to come back on an appointed day to present an invoice, in person, and if the invoice is accepted an appointment is made to return to receive payment.
MANY companies that have formed joint ventures end up creating their own new corporate culture, taking bits and pieces from each side. At Vitro-Whirlpool in Monterrey, assembly-line workers have a long tradition of taking what in Mexico is referred to as "el puente," or the bridge, which commonly extends a formal holiday into a mini vacation. When, for instance, Mexico's version of Mother's Day fell on Tuesday, May 10, this year, workers would simply not show up on Monday, bridging the gap to the holiday. (If an American holiday falls on a Tuesday, of course, absenteeism will be high on Monday, but in Mexico the custom is far more entrenched -- and can even shut a plant down.)
The company now allows workers to take the "puente," but only if they agree to work an extra hour each day for eight days beforehand.
Blair Labatt, president of a successful food distribution service in San Antonio, said that when he began a joint venture in Mexico two years ago with Gutsa, a local company whose primary business is construction, he had trouble keeping up with the schedule of long lunches and late-night meetings. Eventually he developed a kind of south-of-the-border stamina. He has even taken to using a special business card in Mexico that bows to local custom by including the honorific "Dr." -- courtesy of his Princeton Ph.D. in English literature.
Because their corporate conversations can be filled with so many feints and pleasantries, Mexicans often use memos to convey dissatisfaction. When Mr. Labatt's Mexican manager, Noel Trainor, decided to cut back employees' lunch from two hours to one, he had to do it in a memo that all 30 employees had to sign.
Mr. Trainor said he abided by a strict holiday policy, priding himself on the degree to which his compatriots had been able to adapt to the expectations of the United States and seemingly only half aware of the degree to which he has compromised. "We only give what we are obligated by law to give," he said, "and of course half a day on Mother's Day."
Of course.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Corning's modern headquarters in upstate New York. (Phil Matt for The New York Times); Corporate cultural differences are exemplified by Vitro's 16th century- style offices. In Mexico, business is "very genteel," says Eduardo Martens, president of Vitro. (Photographs by Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (52%); JPM (LSE) (52%); 8634 (TSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (52%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (52%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (52%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (52%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); 

COMPANY: CORNING INC; VITRO SA; CORNING-VITRO CORP SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (56%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (52%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CORNING INC; VITRO SA; CORNING-VITRO CORP NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS CORPORATE CULTURE (90%); JOINT VENTURES (90%); GLASS MFG (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (77%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); TRENDS (60%); CONSUMER LENDING (60%); CREDIT CARDS (50%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



605 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 5; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 1707 words

HEADLINE: Afro Days Are Here Again

BYLINE: By MICHEL MARRIOTT 

 BODY:
A few months ago, a 23-year-old black graduate student from Long Beach, Calif., took the impossibly long walk out to center stage of the Apollo Theater in Harlem, an arena littered with more bones of the weak of heart and talent than the Roman Colosseum.
And then, with a poem, no less -- no band, no dancers, no deejay -- the student, who calls himself only D-Knowledge, alternately charmed, tickled and moved an audience in a theater famous for its skeptical audiences. On this night, the crowd seemed to cling to his every intonation about, no less, being black in the 1970's. 
 Remember when there weren't any bars on windows
 And when drive-bys were a thing of the future
 And when the word crip was used to describe disabled people
 And when the word blood was used to acknowledge everybody
 Like . . . What's happenin' blood
 Remember . . .
 
he asked in a playful spill of stanzas.
Like D-Knowledge himself, many in the predominantly black audience of 1,000 were hardly old enough to possess much more than a child's memory of what it was to be black in the 1970's.
Yet, for a growing number of the hip-hop generation and late baby boomers, the 70's, a delicate decade that held for many blacks relative innocence and restless promise, is being rediscovered. In hair styles, clothing and movies like Spike Lee's "Crooklyn," the decade is being revisited and retrofitted to the 1990's as a sort of polyester antidote to these stark days of raging youth nihilism.
Of course, white mainstream culture is looking back at the 70's full throttle, with bell-bottom trousers, an Eagles reunion tour and reruns of television sitcoms all too obvious. But nostalgia for the 70's among blacks is a different phenomenon.
Black pop culture is overwhelmingly committed to being forever fresh, seldom taking more than a glance backward. A succession of hep, hip and dope generations have asked: Who wants to remember the 40's or the 50's, with their Jim Crow segregation and poverty? Who wants to remember or revive the chaos of the 60's? But for today's young black adults, the 70's were a time of childhood, relatively free of travails that would follow. This was an era long before crack cocaine and the crackle of deadly gunfire, before AIDS and the chronic problems of homelessness, joblessness and single-mother households.
In their nostalgia for the 70's, black youngsters are recapturing the Afro as a hairstyle, and some are bringing back hip-huggers and halter tops. But few yearn to bring back the butterfly collars and feathered fedoras popular in black street life of the era. In fact, the young appear to be looking to the 1970's for much more than appearance or fashion.
Some say black youth culture is searching for the essence of an era in which, in the words of a Willie Hutch song of the day, "the brother's gonna work it out." The result has been a rush of 70's attitudes and sensibilities flooding into hip-hop dance, music, comedy and film.
As Greg Tate, the commentator of black life for The Village Voice, put it, young people have been "ransacking that era for creativity."
William Kornblum, chairman of the Center for Urban Research at the City University Graduate School, said, "To be looking back is a sign of strength, but it is also a sign of exhaustion, of feelings of despair."
Mr. Kornblum does not find it surprising that some young blacks are looking to the 1970's for creative inspiration, because, he said, that decade spawned a "strong black generation of young artists and intellectuals."
Among them, he noted, were Henry Louis Gates Jr., Wynton Marsalis and Quincy Troupe.
D-Knowledge, who is completing a doctorate in sociology at the University of California at Los Angeles, said, "Back then, there seemed to be a collective sentiment that things would be better, that we could work it out no matter how bad things got." He said the era's symbols, like the clenched-fist handle of an Afro comb (again becoming commonplace), signified such optimism for him.
But now, he went on, the symbol of life for many young blacks is the 40-ounce bottle of malt liquor. "It's a symbol of drowning, and numbing the pain," he said.

Elsewhere, though, Naomi Campbell struts down fashion runways wearing an Afro and platform shoes. Janet Jackson bares her midriff and dons hip-huggers for her concerts. In a smoldering music video, she does the Bump, a very 70's dance, with a girlfriend.
These days, the rap superstars Ice Cube and Snoop Doggy Dogg wear full-blown Afros and exude the can't-touch-me attitude that the crown of hair engendered in the heyday of the Jackson Five and Angela Davis.
And many of the 1970's films of soft sex and hard violence that had black men and women as conquering heroes -- a genre known as blaxploitation films -- are being re-released on videotape, among them "The Mack," "Hammer," "Super Fly," "Blacula" and Pam Grier's "Coffy" and "Foxy Brown."
Snoop Doggy Dogg's latest music video is sprinkled with cameo appearences by some of the hottest stars of the genre, including Fred Williamson, Ron O'Neal and Antonio Fargas.
In a similar vein, "The Inkwell," the latest work from Matty Rich, the enfant terrible of black film makers, is set smack in the 1970's, tracing a black teen-ager's coming of age while on vacation on Martha's Vineyard.
Spike Lee's "Crooklyn" offers moviegoers a celluloid love tome to the 1970's Brooklyn of his childhood. In one scene, a group of children gather around the television set on a Saturday morning to watch and mimic the dancers on a now vintage "Soul Train," the black dance program, which remains popular.
"When I saw that scene I almost cried," said Julia Chance, 31, fashion editor for The Source, a leading hip-hop magazine. "It brought back a flood of feelings and emotions of that time. How beautiful everything was then."
The movie's soundtrack, alive with the sound of 70's R & B, soul and funk, sometimes seems to advance the plot more than the characters' action and dialogue do.
For years, rap groups have been sampling funky fragments from the black 1970's, most notably anything by George Clinton or James Brown. But more recently, many rap and hip-hop artists, like Arrested Development, Brand-New Heavies, Me'Shell NdegeoCello and Afro-Plane, are infusing their work with the ghetto-centric sensibility of the 1970's that calls for racial unity, peace and pride.
At the same time, older artists like Sly and the Family Stone; War; Earth, Wind and Fire and Gil Scott-Heron are finding their 70's body of work being embraced by younger and younger black audiences while many of their own careers are being revived.
In the last week of the "Arsenio Hall Show" last month, a member of Arrested Development who goes by the name Speech shared the couch with Mr. Scott-Heron, the poet-singer-political critic of the 70's, and paid homage to him as a major inspiration of his work.
"We're going back to the real," said Soggi, 19, a member of the Atlanta recording group Afro-Plane, whose newly released single, "Shine," on the Kaper-RCA label, recalls the early 1970's funk-with-a-message of Sly Stone. "It's about uplift," he said.
Chuck Sutton, the executive producer and creator of the Apollo Comedy Hour, a weekly syndicated television variety show that introduced D-Knowledge to a national audience this spring, said, "I think culturally the 70's represented a huge political uplifting for us."
"We defined ourselves," said Mr. Sutton, 43. "Everyone told us that the Afro was ugly. Not only did we embrace it, but after a while the white hair-care industry came chasing after the Afro as well as some white people who wanted to wear it."
While separated from Mr. Sutton by a generation, Brian Burke, who is 20 and trying to break into the New York music scene as a producer, agrees with him.
"I love the 70's," said Mr. Burke, who wears his hair in a billowy Afro that stands at least six inches from the top of his scalp. "It seems like it was a lot simpler than it is today. Now, things are a lot tighter, money is a big deal."

Sharnteek Whitmore, 27, a barber who has been cutting hair for 11 years, said that lately, almost a quarter of his customers at the S & B Barber Shop on Malcolm X Boulevard in Harlem ask for Afros.
"I think they like it because it is from an era they missed," he said. "It seems to remind them of a time when there was more peace and harmony."
Not everyone is a fan of this looking back.
"For me, the recycling of that particular part of our history represents a failure of imagination," said Warrington Hudlin, a black writer and director who is completing "Cosmic Slop," a television series for HBO that he describes as a multicultural "Twilight Zone." "To my recollection, I'm not aware of any other decade in this century where a black pop culture has recycled ideas."
He said that black culture is dynamic largely because past generations have been willing to reinvent traditions while breaking from the past.
According to Government statistics, the 1970's were perhaps a mixed bag for blacks. Since then, life expectancy has increased for blacks and fewer black infants are dying, though today far more households are headed by single mothers.
At the close of the decade, blacks were expected to live to age 68.1; by 1990, life expectancy had reached 69.1. The infant mortality rate in 1980 was 21.4 per 1,000 births, compared with 17 per 1,000 births in 1990.
From 1970 to 1979, the unemployment rates for blacks ranged from 8.2 percent to 14.8 percent. In the 1980's, it ranged from 11.4 percent to 19.5 percent. By 1990, black unemployment had fallen to 11.3 percent.
In 1980, 43.9 percent of all black children were living only with their mothers, compared with 51.2 percent in 1990.
But what many young blacks say they are looking for in the 1970's cannot be measured in columns of numbers. They are, said Marc Haggins, a television and film producer, looking for their roots.
"I don't think we want all that violent, shoot-'em-up stuff from 'New Jack City' to 'Boyz N the Hood' representing what black people are all about," he said. "We want to get back into the family stuff, the roots, the father and mother striving together."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "I love the 70's," said Brian Burke, 20, who wears a six-inch Afro haircut. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg.31); Spike Lee as Snuffy in his new motion picture, "Crooklyn." (Jeffrey H. Scales)(pg.33); Speech, of Arrested Development, left, and Gil Scott-Heron, right, guests of Arsenio Hall during one of his last shows last month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: LONG BEACH, CA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%); APOLLO THEATER FOUNDATION INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); LONG BEACH, CA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: HAIR; BLACKS (IN US); FADS; NINETEEN HUNDRED SEVENTIES HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); CHILDREN (71%); DANCERS (71%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (62%); HOMELESSNESS (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (53%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); COCAINE (50%); 

PERSON: MARRIOTT, MICHEL SHELTON JACKSON 'SPIKE' LEE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



606 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 736 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends;
A Little Economy That Can

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

DATELINE: REYKJAVIK, Iceland

 BODY:
Imagine a country with one-thousandth the population of America that delivers all the goods and services of modern life, from designer pizza to open heart surgery. Not a city-state like Luxembourg, or a castle and casino masquerading as a country, like Monaco. A real country with its own language, political parties, rock star, world-champion bridge team and Nobel laureate in literature.
Imagine Iceland. An island near the Arctic Circle, it delights tourists with scenery and fascinates economists with a puzzle. As Robert Solow of M.I.T. put it: "How can so few people make so much from so little?" 
 Iceland's income per person was $24,000 in 1992 -- more than that of the United States. Sky-high prices cut into purchasing power. But if you include intangibles like clean air and crime-free streets in the accounting, and a Scandinavian-style welfare state, it's clear that Icelanders stand among the world's economic elite.
What's more, this is no land of hewers and gatherers solely obsessed with putting dried cod on the table. Iceland supports a good university, two daily newspapers, four theater companies, a dozen magazines, as many book publishers, three radio and two television stations. And, according to Thorvaldur Gylfason, an economist at the University of Iceland, it leads the world in personal computers per person.
Reykjavik, the only city of consequence, is smaller than Macon, Ga. But the diversity of restaurants, shops, museums and cafes gives it the feel of a miniature Copenhagen. How do they do it? How can a country with the population of Wichita staff its embassies, inspect its elevators, teach college physics, collect income taxes, support a ballet company?
Many routine jobs like retail distribution or much of government, Professor Gylfason says, simply can't be done efficiently in an economy this small. Hamlets hundreds of miles from Reykjavik, for example, demand and get decent schools and medical care. But these inefficiencies, he argues, are offset by unique advantages.
Consider what Iceland doesn't have to do. It doesn't pay for defense; the Pentagon does that, running the NATO air base that doubles as the international airport. With crime low, it doesn't spend much on police. And it doesn't even import much heating fuel: hot water, pumped from volcanic rock, keeps radiators sizzling.
Consider, too, that Iceland is better endowed than its lava-blasted and glacier-gouged landscape hints. In 1976, after three "cod wars" with Britain, Iceland gained unchallenged control over the fisheries out to 200 miles. Fish represent 12 percent of national output and roughly half the country's foreign earnings. More important, notes Jonas Haralz, an economist with the Overseas Development Council in Washington, the fishermen are good businessmen; they catch as much fish as the French with one-tenth the manpower.
 
Hydropower and Attitude
 Iceland also has hydropower in abundance. And Thordur Fridjonsson, the director of Iceland's National Economic Institute, points out that energy is the primary ingredient in aluminum and industrial compounds called ferro-silicates, both of which are exported.
Last but hardly least, Iceland benefits from cultural advantages: a strong work ethic, respect for practical education, a powerful sense of national identity. "This is not primarily economics," acknowledges Mr. Fridjonsson, "it's about attitude."
Still, the economy only really started cooking after World War II. Could the flame burn out as abruptly?
Apart from fish, Mr. Haralz notes a bit ominously, "there has been very little growth in income since the early 1980's." An end to Europe's recession and with it an influx of German tourists would certainly help. But Professor Gylfason worries that powerful rural interests will impose an increasing burden on the largely urban economy. They resist further development of hydropower and insist on keeping farming alive.
Still, nobody really expects the economic miracle to sour. Icelanders, Professor Gylfason believes, will adapt to a world economy in which skills and flexibility count more than money in the bank or oil in the ground. Iceland, for example, is the world leader in electronic gadgetry for the fishing industry -- peanuts for a larger economy, but just the sort of thing that works here.
"With a population this small," says Professor Gylfason, "all we need is a niche."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While Reykjavik, Iceland, is smaller than Macon, Ga., it has the feel of a miniature Copenhagen. (Black Star)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: ICELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (90%); ARCTIC (88%); MONACO (88%); LUXEMBOURG (88%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (94%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%); MACON, GA, USA (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ICELAND; ICELAND (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); DENMARK (90%); ARCTIC (88%); MONACO (88%); LUXEMBOURG (88%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (94%); COPENHAGEN, DENMARK (90%); MACON, GA, USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TRENDS (91%); RESTAURANTS (89%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); HYDROELECTRIC POWER (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); POP & ROCK (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (71%); ENDOWMENTS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (67%); DANCE COMPANIES (66%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (66%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (63%); FISHERIES (60%); THEATER (51%); BOOK PUBLISHING (51%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (51%); BALLET (50%); AIRPORTS (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER ROBERT MERTON SOLOW (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



607 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: The World;
The Nafta Report: Windy, Chance of Greenspan

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Six months after the North American Free Trade Agreement took effect, there has been no giant sucking sound of jobs going south of the Rio Grande. Actually, the loudest sound emitted by Nafta is a sort of "whoosh" of hot air, as the inflated predictions that Nafta would bring down 10 plagues on the American work force have been deflated by reality.
Oh, there is another noise out there, but not one that anyone predicted when Nafta was hotly debated last fall. While Ross Perot was trying to out-exaggerate and out-terrify Vice President Al Gore in their debate about whether or not Nafta was a good deal, and while the A.F.L.-C.I.O. union bosses were threatening to electorally kneecap any lawmaker who voted for Nafta (a threat that has so far proven as empty as Mr. Perot's analysis), a much more important economic interaction was under way between the United States and Latin America alongside Nafta: It was the movement of billions of dollars in private American investments, from pension funds, mutual funds and individuals, into the emerging stock and bond markets in Mexico, Argentina, Brazil and elsewhere in Latin America, attracted by the lure of double-digit interest rates and fat returns. 
 But when the Federal Reserve Chairman, Alan Greenspan, decided to raise interest rates in America in February, a portion of those American portfolio investments were sucked right back into the United States, wreaking havoc in markets from Mexico City to Buenos Aires. In other words, while the politicians were arguing over Nafta, which even at its best will only enhance already strong trade, money managers were jumping up and down on the sidelines shouting, "Nafta, yes! Greenspan, no!"
But more on that later. Nafta began Jan. 1, and the Commerce Department reports that American exports to Mexico were up 15.7 percent in the first quarter of this year, to a record $11.85 billion, compared with the same quarter of 1993. That is roughly triple the rate of American export growth with the rest of the world. The biggest increases were in exports of machinery, road-building gear, computers and high-tech hospital equipment -- precisely the sort of computer-chip-not-potato-chip exports that create the best-paying jobs here. American imports from Mexico were up 22.3 percent, to a record $11.29 billion. The few jobs that have been lost to Mexico -- the Labor Department says 4,487 people applied for Nafta relief benefits in the first five months of this year -- appear to have been more than balanced out by new jobs and factories here, since the overall emplyment rate is up.
The question now is whether Nafta's initial success will be widened. The United States Trade Representative, Mickey Kantor, has already begun informal talks with Chile. "Almost 50 percent of Latin America's imports come from the United States," says Mr. Kantor. "We want to use that foothold to secure our position for the long run." But that may not be so easy.
"Nafta is not going to be a building block, but a stumbling block, in the creation of a hemispheric free trade zone," argued Moises Naim, an expert on Latin American political economy at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. He says this is because the Mexicans were so desperate to sign a free trade pact with the United States that they were ready to swallow all of the special-interest demands, as well as environmental and labor-standard regulations, imposed by the American Congress.
But most other Latin American governments do not have the authoritarian clout the Mexican Government had over its congress, media, private sector, labor unions and military, argues Mr. Naim. Many of them are just now completing the first, difficult phases of economic reform and trade liberalization. Those reforms, triggered by the debt crisis of the 1980's, include ending subsidies, privatizing bloated state enterprises and exposing domestic manufacturers to global competition. This has left the middle classes in many South American countries economically weakened, politically volatile and in no mood to bow to American demands.
One thing that might help bring them around, though, is the little-noticed flow of investment into their financial markets.
"Alan Greenspan's announcements on increasing interest rates have had a much bigger effect on Latin America than Nafta," said Mr. Naim. Why? Because even before Nafta, Latin American countries were unilaterally lowering many trade barriers, creating an imbalance in trade, with a lot of money flowing out of the region to pay for consumer goods and machinery from America to run more advanced, competitive economies.
That outflow of capital, however, has been largely offset by huge inflows of investment from Americans in the Latin American stock and bond markets. Low interest rates in the United States, combined with the high yields (because of high risks) offered in Latin American equities and debt issues, lured a lot of money south. That is, until Mr. Greenspan started jacking up rates at home -- and last week it looked like he might have do it again soon to prop up the sagging dollar.
Such hikes prompt some investors to yank their money back north, leaving a mess in their wake. For instance, in late January, one-month Mexican Treasury notes were paying about 9.5 percent, but after the Greenspan moves the Mexicans were forced to pay 18.5 percent to keep attracting investors. In Argentina, 10-year zero-coupon government bonds have dropped 20 percent in value over the same period. This puts a real crimp on growth.
 
Going With the Flows
 But Nafta needs these private investment flows and the private investors need more free trade agreements and institutional reforms, which together create the legal structures and comfort level that induce money managers to send their funds to Latin America, instead of competing emerging markets in Asia or Eastern Europe. Without these investments, Nafta and its successors will never bring the trade benefits -- because these Latin American countries need to lure the dollars they are spending in America back into their own economies. One way to do that is making stock and bond markets attractive. That way they can continue purchasing the development tools they need to export more and have even more dollars to buy American goods.
In the old days, the big American banks did that recycling by lending to Latin governments. But that was a fiasco. Now it is private individuals and money managers doing the recycling, and they take no prisoners. Their attitude is: "I don't care what you do to Citibank, but don't mess with my retirement fund." They don't have the cushion of banks to just write off bad loans, and they are very sensitive to interest rates and market fluctuations.
And that's why they say south of the border: "Es Alan Greenspan, estupido."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (55%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (94%); AFL-CIO (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; LATIN AMERICA; UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (95%); LATIN AMERICA (93%); NORTH AMERICA (93%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); CHILE (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CREDIT; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); MUTUAL FUNDS (72%); BOND MARKETS (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); TECHNOLOGY EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); COMPUTER CHIPS (65%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (65%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (89%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); AL GORE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



608 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 18; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1099 words

HEADLINE: The Nation;
When Moods Affect Safety: Communication in a Cockpit Means a Lot a Few Miles Up

BYLINE: By CARL H. LAVIN 

 BODY:
BOSSES can be intimidating. They may not like to hear bad news, and the people who work for them know it. Bosses like that may not hear about trouble until it's too late to prevent a blunder.
Melburn A. McBroom was that kind of boss. So was Marvin Falitz. How they got along with their co-workers might have gone unnoticed, at least to the outside world, if they had worked in factories or offices. But each man was an airline pilot, and each was in charge of a plane that crashed. 
 Federal investigators say the crashes they were involved in were typical of more than 80 percent of all air accidents in that the pilots made mistakes that could easily have been prevented.
Mr. McBroom captained a three-pilot crew flying a United DC-8 into Portland, Ore., in 1978. Noticing a problem with the landing gear, he entered a holding pattern while he tried to fix it. The fuel gauges slowly dropped to empty. Watching a disaster develop, the other pilots failed "to successfully communicate their concern to the captain," according to a Federal report on the crash, which killed 10 people.
The crash became a classic in the minds of safety experts and those who supervise the training of pilots. From flight schools to safety seminars, the story of the plane that ran out of fuel while timid crew members kept silent has been told again and again.
A member of the National Transportation Safety Board at the time, Philip A. Hogue, said that he himself would have been "pounding on the captain's arm, if not trying to break it" had he been in the cockpit.
Mr. Falitz flew Jetstream commuter propeller planes for Express Airlines II, and people interviewed by investigators said he was known to have a temper. He once slapped a co-pilot's headphone when he was angry. He argued with ground crews.
One cold night in December, he was descending toward Hibbing, Minn., and had reached a crucial point when both he and his co-pilot should have been closely monitoring their altitude. Instead, safety board records show, Mr. Falitz questioned the co-pilot about landing lights. Seconds later, the plane hit a hill, killing all 18 on board.
Aircraft design, manufacturing and maintenance are all highly advanced, and relatively few crashes are linked to failures in those areas. Too often, investigators have found again and again, what goes wrong to cause a crash is something that is hard to engineer: the way pilots work together.
 
Teamwork Trickles Down
 In the 15 years since Mr. McBroom's plane crashed, United and other major airlines have revamped their pilot training. The emphasis now goes beyond technical skills and memorizing check lists. Crews are trained together. They learn to communicate, to speak their minds, to listen to each other, and to share the tasks of flying the airplane. At America West Airlines even flight attendants are included in the crew training.
Now this attention to teamwork is trickling down to the commuter lines. These airlines are the fastest-growing sector of commercial aviation, with traffic for regional and commuter airlines now five times what it was in 1978, the year the skies were deregulated.
David R. Hinson, the Federal Aviation Administrator, emphasized this growth in testimony to an aviation subcommittee of the House Committee on Public Works and Transportation in February. He noted that the planes operated by the commuter lines were also growing larger and more complex. In 1978, commuter lines flew 20-to-30-seat aircraft a total of 34,000 hours; in 1993, commuter planes of that size flew 591,000 hours.
"Despite the adverse economic conditions that so affected the major carriers over the past several years, the commuters were relatively unaffected, and we forecast that they will continue to outpace the larger airlines," Mr. Hinson said.
The conclusion is inescapable: Morale in commuter-airline cockpits is becoming more and more important to the safety of more and more passengers.
This year, new Federal rules require commuter planes to carry a device that warns pilots when they are too close to the ground. Such warning signals have been required on larger planes for more than a decade.
And the Federal Aviation Administration moved this year to bolster its requirements that all airline pilots, for both large carriers and commuter fleets, undergo regular training to improve cockpit communication.
The Government happily produces figures that show the focus on commuter carriers is working: In 1993, there were four fatal accidents; if the accident rate had stayed at the 1978 level there would have been 25, Mr. Hinson told the Congressional panel.
All this training has created a new demand for flight simulators, the computerized mock-ups of cockpits that pilots use to practice responding to emergencies.
One training company, Flightsafety International, based at Kennedy International Airport, has said that it expects much of its growth to come from contracts to train commuter pilots on simulators. Many of the smaller airlines cannot afford their own machines, which cost from $4 million to $10 million.
A core element of that training is usually a focus on teamwork. One method is to have crew members view videotapes of crews that fail to communicate well.
What does all this new attention mean to the commuter lines? Listen to Gary Risley, vice president for legal affairs of Mesa Airlines, which carried more than four million passengers on 145 aircraft in 1993:
"It will obviously raise the cost of training for pilots. This industry is so safety-conscious, but you have to deal with the perception as much as the realities. And the perception is that it's unsafe. That's what's happening here. You do the best you can to maintain high safety standards, and you do it as economically as you can. The cost will of course be translated to the passenger."
For years, the commuter lines have carried the corporate names and logos of the big carriers. The commuter pilots have even worn the same uniforms the better-paid brethren wear.
Now the small airlines, and their pilots, are starting to meet more of the same safety standards, too.
Airline executives as well as regulators say they hope that passengers, faced with paying a few extra dollars a flight, will not begrudge the price if it insures that they have a cockpit boss who is attuned to the danger signs, whether they come from a warning light, or a junior pilot -- in other words, a boss who is willing to listen.
Experts say that is the easy way to improve airline safety. The other way is one crash at a time.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Federal report on this crash in Portland, Ore., in 1978 suggested cockpit morale was the problem. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: OREGON, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (54%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (54%); NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); OREGON, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIRLINES (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (89%); FLIGHT SCHOOLS (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); FLIGHT CONTROL & INSTRUMENTATION (75%); 

PERSON: DAVID R HINSON (69%); MARVIN FALITZ (69%); MELBURN A MCBROOM (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



609 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Cold War Agency Looks At Problems Back Home

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BALTIMORE, June 22

 BODY:
It is hard to know whether this is a good news story or a bad news story, but here it is: The Agency for International Development, which spent the cold war fighting Communism with foreign aid and helping poor countries like Bangladesh immunize children, has found a new customer for its services: America's inner cities.
The good news is that A.I.D. has something to offer. The bad news is that parts of Los Angeles, Boston and Baltimore now need it as much as Bangladesh. 
 Over the years A.I.D. developed a reputation in Washington as a bloated and ineffective bureaucracy. But the Clinton Administration has been engaged in a major overhaul of A.I.D. The Clinton team is trying to shed what the agency did worst, supporting anti-Communist dictators, and focus on what it did best -- fostering cheap, low-tech methods for accelerating immunization, literacy and agricultural development and for nurturing small businesses.
The agency's shift in focus from Bangladesh to Baltimore was an accident waiting to happen. With no cold war, it was eager to justify its usefulness to taxpayers dubious of foreign aid, and it discovered American mayors so beleaguered by the problems of their inner cities that they were ready to take help from anywhere, even if it meant comparisons between their inner cities and the third world.
While A.I.D.'s charter prohibits it from actually financing programs in the United States, nothing prevents the agency from sharing its expertise.
While talking this spring with Marian Wright Edelman, the longtime head of the Children's Defense Fund, about the health problems faced by American children, the agency's director, J. Brian Atwood, was struck by how similar they were to the problems his agency was fighting in Mali and Egypt, he recalled in an interview on Tuesday.
Ms. Edelman, he said, was struck by how, in some respects, Mali and Egypt seemed to be doing much better than the United States.
In particular, Mr. Atwood recounted, they noted that measles vaccination rates among inner-city children under age 2 were averaging around 40 percent in the United States. Yet, governments in Egypt, the Philippines, India, Sri Lanka and Indonesia, using some of their own programs and some financed and planned by A.I.D., had achieved childhood immunization rates in the high 70 percent range, according to the Unicef Progress of Nations report.
During an interview on C-Span a few days later, Mr. Atwood mentioned this discussion and mentioned that his agency hoped to become more involved in sharing ideas with American cities.
An aide to Mayor Kurt L. Schmoke of Baltimore happened to be watching, and the city immediately contacted Mr. Atwood and volunteered Baltimore for the first test case. Other cities followed.
Mr. Atwood, recognizing a new market for his agency's expertise, ordered aides to come up with a program, eventually christened "Lessons Without Borders." On June 6, a team of the agency's senior health and development experts held a daylong seminar with their Baltimore counterparts at Morgan State University, discussing A.I.D. programs that had worked or, often just as important, had not worked.
Another conference is planned for Boston this fall, and the agency is laying out a two-year schedule for other cities that have asked for advice.
Still, it was not an easy thing for Mayor Schmoke. The headline in The Baltimore Sun the day of the conference read: "Baltimore to Try Third World Remedies." In fairness to Baltimore, it is one of the most thriving cities on the East Coast, with its rebuilt inner harbor, National Aquarium and downtown baseball stadium anchoring a real urban renaissance.
But that renaissance is a work in progress. Just a few miles from the inner harbor, areas of Baltimore's inner city are rife with AIDS, illiteracy, family breakdown, joblessness and drugs.
 
Like a Third-World Country
 "We have to let everybody know that we are not suggesting that our entire city has the same problems as a third-world country," Mayor Schmoke said. "But we ought to recognize that there are sections of the city that are similar to the problems of less-developed countries."
Baltimore officials said they had learned several things from their A.I.D. visitors. Although Baltimore has well-financed social programs, many people do not use them. One reason is that 150,000 out of Baltimore's population of 730,000 are functionally illiterate.
"We found that people could not read the signs," said Lee Tawney, an aide to Mayor Schmoke. A.I.D. operates in many countries where illiteracy is taken for granted, and at the conference A.I.D. officials discussed many techniques they have developed for getting around illiteracy and promoting immunization, population control and other remedies. These include using soap opera characters to entice people into clinics, cartoons, jingles, and having beer truck drivers distribute condoms as they drop off beer kegs at pubs in Jamaica. They also discussed A.I.D.'s "barefoot doctor" program of paying local villagers to recruit people to come to clinics.
"You want to know what the real irony is?" asked Dr. Peter Beilenson, Baltimore's Commissioner of Health. "The company that develops these communications programs for A.I.D. is from Baltimore. Its office is about three blocks from here."
Another big issue discussed was job creation. Twenty years ago, the biggest employer in Baltimore was Bethlehem Steel, with about 35,000 employees. Today, the biggest employer in Baltimore is Johns Hopkins University Medical Center.
Twenty years ago, a high school dropout was able to get a job at the steel plant, and buy a house and raise a family. Today, even a college degree would not guarantee its recipient a job at Johns Hopkins.
This has left many inner-city youth in Baltimore stranded, but one thing discussed by A.I.D. and the Baltimorians, was trying to fill the void with a program A.I.D. has fostered with third-world governments, called microenterprise development.
In Bolivia, for instance, the Banco Sol, partially supported by A.I.D., has been giving tiny loans, sometimes only $10 or $20, to men, and particularly women, who are working out of their homes and who, with just a little capital, might be able to not only sustain their own business but employ others as well. Sometimes the money goes for a sewing machine; sometimes it goes for teaching bookkeeping or commercial law.
 
Encouraging Entrepreneurs
 Michael A. Gaines Sr., head of Baltimore's Council for Economic and Business Opportunity, said what he learned at the A.I.D. seminar was that "third-world governments did not provide a social security net, but their policies increasingly allow for free flowing microentrepreneurship." He added, "We provide a social security net, but it comes with policies, restrictions and guidelines that preclude entrepreneurship."
Mr. Gaines is running a pilot project in Baltimore intended to show how microentrepreneurs -- the mother who does hair styling out of her home or the mechanic who works out of his garage -- can grow with a small loan and a business plan.
Mr. Gaines said he would like not only A.I.D.'s advice but also a slice of its $7 billion budget. Indeed, there is such a hunger for its expertise, and money, that it may justify itself right out of existence or be asked to become A.A.D. -- "Agency for American Development."
Mr. Gaines said: "If you were able to fold some of those A.I.D. resources and knowledge, with the Housing and Urban Development agency and the Commerce Department, and start working in a coordinated way in this country, oh man, the potential would be tremendous."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Poor areas of Baltimore are a third-world kind of test case. (Don Preisler for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (93%); MALI (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (71%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (90%); 

CITY: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (95%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (95%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE (MD); BANGLADESH; UNITED STATES (98%); EGYPT (93%); MALI (92%); PHILIPPINES (79%); INDIA (79%); INDONESIA (71%); MARYLAND, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: URBAN AREAS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; VACCINATION AND IMMUNIZATION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); COLD WAR (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); VACCINES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); VACCINATION & IMMUNIZATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (86%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (73%); MEASLES (73%); CHILD WELFARE (72%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



610 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1046 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-11
 
BRITISH CANCER CARE LAGGING
Health advocates are demanding improvements in the light of statistics that show that British patients with certain types of cancer are more likely to die than those in other Western countries. 1
EUROPE FAILS TO PICK LEADER
The European summit broke up without being able to choose a leader, leaving the impression that the union is faltering because of the competing goals of its members. 6
U.S.-JAPAN TALKS FRUSTRATED
The resignation of Japan's Prime Minister is bound to cause further delays in trade talks between the United States and Japan, throwing the United States on the mercy of the bureaucrats it has criticized. 1
NO CHOICE FOR JAPAN'S LEADER
News analysis: Japan's Prime Minister had no choice but to resign after trying to govern with a minority coalition, and without a hoped-for realignment, the previous ruling party could be back in power. 8
NO SHAKEUP SEEN FOR UKRAINE
Ukraine is likely to keep its current leadership in power in presidential elections despite extreme dissatisfaction over the weakness of its economy and political divisions. 9
TAIWAN BACK IN WORLD COMMUNITY
Taiwan is seeking to end its diplomatic isolation, reaching out to other countries and sounding out their feeling about readmitting Taiwan to the United Nations, all of which is causing China consternation. 8
HAITI STATUS HARD TO PROVE
Many of the Haitians who flee the country and who face United States hearings for refugee status have horror stories to tell about their persecution, but many lack proof that satisfies American authorities. 10
FRENCH DISARMING RWANDANS
French troops in Rwanda have been disarming the militias allied with the Government and sending them home, in an effort to show rebel forces that the French are not biased in favor of the Government. 10
BESIEGED BOSNIA ENCLAVE
The enclave of Bihac in northwestern Bosnia is cut off from the capital and largely forgotten by the rest of the world, and it has been shelled back to the 19th century. 3
NO BACKWARD LOOK IN HUNGARY
Hungary has returned former Communists to power, but they are making it clear that they do not intend to return to Communist ways and instead are trying to build a stronger free-market economy. 4
FIGHTING IN SOMALIA
The two major factions in the Somalian capital, Mogadishu, have been fighting since Thursday, with six people reported killed, many wounded, and three wounded inside the United Nations compound. 11
 
National 12-22
 
NEW AID FOR CITIES
After fighting communism with foreign aid, the Agency for International Development has found a new customer for its services: America's inner cities. 1
ALLEGATION AFTER ALLEGATION
Cable television viewers of the "Old Time Gospel Hour" last month found themselves hearing allegations that President Clinton had arranged the murder of an Arkansas investigator. That is only the most startling of the attacks being directed at Bill and Hillary Clinton by fundamentalist Christian leaders. 1
President Kennedy was sued in 1962 for actions before taking office. 12
INCESSANT ATTRACTION
They were divorced, but they continued to date each other. O. J. Simpson and Nicole Brown Simpson vacationed together in Mexico with their children. But celebrity hid the dynamics of their relationship. 1
SOME PROGRESS, LESS GAIN
Congress is meeting a critical deadline on national health insurance legislation, but it is making progress without really coming closer to gether. 1
VERY DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVES
Two large states with the same southern neighbor, Mexico, show very different attitudes about illegal immigration. California is ready to call out the National Guard, but Texas is taking a much more relaxed attitude. 12
UNEXPECTED OUTCOME
A study finds that the blood vessel tissue of blacks is less flexible and expandable than those of whites, which could explain why blacks are more vulnerable to cardiovascular disease. 15
NOMINATION WITHDRAWN
The Defense Department has withdrawn its choice for commander of American forces in the Pacific because misgivings about his handling of sexual harassment issues threatened to hold up Senate confirmation at a time of increasing tensions in the Korean Peninsula. 17
BISHOPS SPEAK ON SEXUALITY
Episcopal bishops affirm in a draft pastoral teaching on human sexuality that marriage remains the foundation of the church's sexual guidance. But the document calls homosexuality an orientation of "a significant minority of persons." 19
 
Metro 23-29
 
MINORITY CONTRACTING PROBLEMS
In a three-month investigation of an affirmative-action program to award New York City contracts to companies owned by women or minorities, The New York Times found that questionable companies and faulty record-keeping inflated the value of the program, making it appear much more successful than it actually was. 1
AIDS TESTING FOR MOTHERS
New York State's seven-year-old policy of testing all newborns for H.I.V., the virus that causes AIDS, but then refusing to inform parents of the results is under attack in the State Assembly. 23
STANGL'S LOST BATTLE
Every M.T.A. chairman has to learn how to tame the tiger of politics. But Peter E. Stangl is discovering who actually cracks the whip, and he's running for re-election this year. 23
CRACKING THE CASE
New police units concentrate on solving drug-related murders by scooping up drug dealers in buy-and-bust operations and coaxing them to tell about crimes they have seen or heard. 25
TAKE ME OUT TO THE SOCCER GAME
For generations Kearny, N.J., a former mill town by the Passaic River, has seen its young men go off to do battle on fields in foreign lands. All of them were soccer players. 28
AND A STAR TO STEER HER BY
For students at North Shore High School on Long Island, building a 23-foot sailboat was the senior project to end all senior projects, a four-year lesson in history and design and patience. 28
 
The fourth Gay Games drew to an ebullient close yesterday. 25
Obituaries 40
Marv Throneberry, former major league baseball player.
Kenneth Pontikes, founder of a computer leasing company.
Tom Skinner, minister and trainer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SOMALIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); RWANDA (92%); HAITI (92%); UKRAINE (91%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); 

CITY: MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CABLE TV MONTGOMERY (50%); CABLE TV ARLINGTON (50%); CANCER CARE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CANCER CARE (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); TAIWAN (93%); SOMALIA (92%); HUNGARY (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); RWANDA (92%); HAITI (92%); UKRAINE (91%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (78%); MUQDISHO, SOMALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); CANCER (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); REFUGEES (71%); ELECTIONS (70%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (70%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); CITY LIFE (60%); CITIES (60%); ARMED FORCES (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%); MURDER (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



611 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3056 words

HEADLINE: FLAWS ARE FOUND IN CONTRACT PLAN TO AID MINORITIES

SERIES: Hidden Partners, Phantom Contracts: First of two articles.

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER with THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
New York City's ambitious effort to steer more city contracts to companies owned by women or minorities has been marred by faulty bookkeeping and the use of companies whose real control is unclear, an analysis of scores of contracts shows.
In a three-month examination of 56 companies that received most of the large construction contracts under the program, The New York Times found that 9 companies, or 16 percent, have strong business and personal ties to white businessmen, casting doubt on their claims to be independently owned and controlled by women or minorities. 
 The inquiry also found widespread bookkeeping discrepancies. The Dinkins administration, which created the program two years ago as one of its major initiatives, claimed to have let more than 30 contracts to women- or minority-owned companies that in fact were never awarded, city records show.
The combination of questionable companies and faulty record-keeping inflated the value of the program, making it appear much more successful than it actually was. In all, the Times analysis found, $87 million in contracts that the Dinkins administration said were awarded in the program's first year -- or one-third of the $270 million total -- either were never really awarded, could not be accounted for by city officials or went to companies whose true management control is in doubt.
Although Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has left the program's future uncertain, the city's experience provides a kind of cautionary tale. It reflects some of the broad problems found in other cities and states when the social intentions of affirmative action collide with the harsh competitive realities of the construction marketplace.
Programs like New York's do benefit many companies that are truly owned by minorities and women. But several critics said the awarding of large contracts to companies with strong ties to white businessmen ultimately hurts the legitimate women- and minority-owned companies because it denies them city contracts.
Not long after he took office in January, Mr. Giuliani dropped one of the initiative's provisions: a measure allowing a minority- or women-owned company to win a contract even if its bid was up to 10 percent higher than the lowest bid.
But Mr. Giuliani has left intact the rest of the program, including its overall goal of allotting 20 percent of municipal contracts to such companies. Whether Mr. Giuliani and his commissioners will pursue the non-binding goals as aggressively as the Dinkins administration remains to be seen. Senior Giuliani administration officials, after being told in interviews about the findings, said they would consider changes in the city's oversight that might improve bookkeeping and help screen out companies that are not really independently owned by women or minorities.
Some of the arrangements seem to resemble the crude fronts set up by white contractors to win government work in earlier affirmative-action efforts by the Federal and state governments, but there are significant differences.
Twenty years ago, a white contractor might have paid a black or Hispanic worker a small bonus to create a new corporation in the employee's name. The white contractor would then do the actual work, with the employee contributing only his name and ethnic background.
Today, white contractors willing to bend the rules have mastered a more sophisticated art, despite the massive paperwork demanded by the government before the companies can be certified as owned by women or minorities.
Alliances of husbands and wives can sometimes obscure who really controls a company, as can interlocking directorships. And agencies under political pressure to increase participation by women and minorities are sometimes less than aggressive in investigating questionable companies.
In the case of New York City, many of the questionable connections can be found in questionnaires filled out by the companies and maintained in computerized city files. Officials of the lead agency in the affirmative-action effort, the Department of Business Services, acknowledged that they did not even look at those files before deciding to certify the companies as independently owned and operated by women or minorities.
 
Owners
White Men In Background
 Of the nine companies found to have links to white businessmen, three were owned by women who lacked previous experience in construction, but whose husbands had long track records in the field. The husbands were described as employees, and the wives were said to control the companies.
Sometimes the women become quite involved with the companies' operations, often performing the office work while the husbands oversee the field work. But whether such companies are really owned and controlled by the women is questionable, many experts say.
One New York company, the Integral Construction Corporation, described itself as minority-owned, but city records showed that it was also a subsidiary of a company owned and controlled by white men.
Similar links between white businessmen and companies claiming to be owned by minorities or women have been found in many cities and states, including Indianapolis, Chicago, New Orleans and Maryland, said Timothy Bates, the chairman of the graduate program in urban policy analysis at The New School, who has studied affirmative-action programs around the country.
"It was often very blatant, with at least 50 percent of the companies turning out to be fronts," Mr. Bates said.
Other New York companies were found to have complex interlocking directorships in which the small women- or minority-owned companies entered into joint ventures with large white-owned companies whose principals also held equity in the smaller firms.
 
Close Connections
 Among those was Associated Construction Trades Inc., a Bronx-based concern whose principal owner and president is Paul Diaz. The company is involved in a joint venture on two city construction contracts with the S.R.A. Contracting Corporation, a Staten Island company whose principal owner and president is Andrew Greco.
City records show that Mr. Greco holds less than 50 percent of the stock of Mr. Diaz's company, but they do not say exactly how much. Mr. Diaz did not respond to two telephone messages seeking comment.
The city encourages joint ventures, saying the larger white-owned companies help nurture the smaller contractors and provide access to large construction jobs.
There is no rule prohibiting the owner of the larger company in a joint venture from holding equity in the small company. But senior members of the Giuliani administration said they might consider such a rule, because in their view the close financial connection could easily compromise the independence of the women- or minority-owned company.
City officials said they were unaware of most of the companies' links to white businessmen until they were informed recently by reporters. But it is those links that challenge both the owners' claims to independence and the effectiveness of the city's oversight.
"As long as the city is certifying and awarding contracts to bogus companies, it means the status of minority-owned business enterprises and woman-owned business enterprises is for sale," said Kathryn Wylde, the president of the New York City Housing Partnership, a nonprofit organization that works with developers and community groups to build housing in poorer neighborhoods.
The Housing Partnership did not take part in the affirmative-action program. But Ms. Wylde has long pushed for efforts that would nurture minority-owned construction companies.
"Anybody who is trying to really increase the participation of minorities in the industry and in the local economy is frustrated because it's very hard to tell who is straight and who isn't," Ms. Wylde said.
 
Supervision
Who Works For Whom?
 A & G Video Survey Inc. appears to be just the kind of small, fledgling enterprise that Mayor David N. Dinkins had in mind two years ago when he created the program. Since its creation in 1989, the company, owned by Annette Selesky of Farmingville, L.I., had won only three small subcontracts from New York City to inspect sewers and water mains. Then, in the spring of 1993, under the Dinkins initiative, it hit the jackpot: three large contracts worth a total of $1.2 million.
But A & G Video Survey is not all it seems. Mrs. Selesky's only prior professional experience was in a jewelry store. It was her husband, George, now her employee, who had two decades of experience in construction. And when her company won the contracts last year, it did so in a joint venture with a large, well-established Queens construction company that employed Mr. Selesky when A & G Video Survey was created.
The rules of the Department of Business Services say that a woman or minority owner must hold a majority of a company's shares and demonstrate that he or she "has the authority to control and operate independently the day-to-day business decisions." The owner must also have experience and technical competence in the business.
"We're looking for independence, that the minority is his own manager, not having to check with someone else," said Mary Colon, the director of the affirmative-action program at the Department of Business Services. "Independence is the key."
 
No Previous Experience
 Yet the department certified A & G Video Survey as a woman-owned enterprise in October 1992, despite the information that Annette Selesky provided to the department about her own work history and her husband's.
The resume she submitted showed that she had no previous experience in her company's specialty: videotaping and photographing sewers and water mains. Before creating her company in 1989, she had worked for 10 years in a Suffolk County jewelry store, becoming a "certified diamondtologist" and rising to assistant manager.
It was her husband, George, who gave her the idea of creating A & G Video Survey, Mrs. Selesky said. "He came home and explained it to me, and it just sounded intriguing," she said in an interview. "It sounded like something I could do."
It was also something that Mr. Selesky could do, and had done. By 1989, he had worked for 17 years as a construction superintendent for 10 different contractors, developing expertise in surveying and sewers, according to his resume. When A & G Video Survey was incorporated, Mr. Selesky was working for A.F.C. Enterprises, a large contractor based in Queens. He was in charge of coordinating all of the company's surveying.
Mr. Selesky has been a full-time employee of A & G Video Survey since its inception, supervising construction in the field, Mrs. Selesky said. She concentrates on bidding, insurance and other paperwork.
"He works for me," she said.
City officials apparently did not look into whether this arrangement entitled Mrs. Selesky to claim that she independently owns and operates A & G Video Survey. Nor, officials acknowledge, did they look at whether the company's current relationship with Mr. Selesky's old employer, A.F.C. Enterprises, affects her contention that she has sole control over her company.
The three large contracts that A & G Video Survey won last year from the city's Department of Environmental Protection, worth a total of $1.2 million, involve rebuilding water mains and sewers in Queens and renovating a water-supply aqueduct in Westchester. The company won the contracts in a joint venture with A.F.C. Enterprises, which was awarded $101 million in city contracts on its own during the last four years.
 
Partners
Intricate Links Raise Questions
 Except for A & G Video Survey, the nine companies found to have close links to white businessmen entered the city's program through a special fast-track procedure.
The Dinkins administration, which had long promised to create an affirmative-action program, was in a great hurry to get it started. The first two years of Mr. Dinkins's tenure had been taken up in meeting requirements set by the United States Supreme Court in a case involving affirmative action in Richmond.
Trying to speed up the start of the program in the last five months of 1992, the Department of Business Services created an expedited process: if a company had been previously certified as being owned by women or minorities by New York State, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey or other government agencies, it merely had to provide the city with a copy of the previous certification and sign an affidavit.
The Integral Construction Corporation was certified this way. Formed 13 years ago, Integral Construction is a large company that has won many contracts with city and state agencies. It received a $6.5 million contract last year from the Department of General Services to renovate 12 station houses for the Police Department.
Integral qualifies as a minority-owned concern because at least 51 percent of the company is owned and controlled by Charles Uribe, who is of Hispanic origin, according to a city questionnaire filled out by the company. Mr. Uribe is a well-known figure in New York's construction industry and within the Democratic Party; he was a leading fund-raiser for Mr. Dinkins and for Mayor Edward I. Koch.
But in the questionnaire, along with other documents, Integral Construction is described as a subsidiary of another construction company, a large, established company called the A. J. Contracting Company. A. J. Contracting, which says it is owned primarily by white men, controls Integral Construction, according to questionnaires filed by each of the companies. The two organizations share office space and equipment at 470 Park Avenue South.
 
Problem Question of Independence
 They also have the same shareholders, according to the questionnaires. Mr. Uribe's partners in Integral Construction are Jerome A. Gannon, Kenneth D. Smith and John T. Pello. All four men are also listed as the principal owners of A. J. Contracting. Because A. J. Contracting describes itself as controlled by white men, Mr. Uribe holds less than 50 percent of the stock. Mr. Uribe said he is the chairman of both companies, as well as their chief operating officer.
The interlocking relationship suggests that Integral Construction would have a hard time meeting the test of independent ownership and operation.
When Ms. Colon, the director of the affirmative-action program, was told about the relationship of the companies, she said the links raised serious questions. "We'd definitely like to know the connections," Ms. Colon said.
Mr. Uribe contended that the information each of the companies had filed with the Office of Contracts was simply inaccurate. "They are separate corporations," Mr. Uribe said in an interview. "And I'm in the process of becoming a majority owner of A. J."
"It should say that it's not a subsidiary," Mr. Uribe said of the questionnaires, which were compiled by the vice presidents of Integral Construction and A. J. Contracting. "They are two independent companies."
"I have never gone after a job because I'm a minority," he added. "I go after them because I do good work."
 
City Hall
Priority Program Loses Its Patron
 The affirmative-action effort was a centerpiece of Mr. Dinkins's four-year term and a significant issue in the mayoral campaign last fall. Mr. Dinkins frequently cited it as a major achievement, saying that in a single year he had nearly doubled, to 17 percent from 9 percent, the portion of city contracts awarded to companies owned by minorities and women. Mr. Giuliani, his challenger, called the program "bad social policy" and said he would eliminate it, although since taking office he has stopped short of doing so.
After being told of the findings by The Times, Rudy Washington, who took over the program in January after he was appointed Commissioner of Business Services by Mr. Giuliani, said he had asked the Department of Investigation to look into the questionable companies.
 
'Paucity of Contracts'
 "I'd like to see it stopped," he said. "If someone set up a sham operation and they defrauded the city, I have no compunction in seeking indictments."
In an interview, Mr. Dinkins said it was not surprising that the start of such a large, ambitious contracting program would have some problems, and he said better record-keeping and oversight might be needed. But any problems should not obscure the overall value of the program or the long history of discrimination that it was meant to reverse, he said.
"We know historically that there is discrimination against women, against minorities," Mr. Dinkins said. "They got a paucity of the contracts over a long period of time."
"This does not mean that I am in favor of sham corporations or misbehavior of any kind," he said.
NEXT: Discrepancies in official claims about the program's achievements.
 
 
How the Inquiry Was Conducted
 A comprehensive list produced by the Department of Business Services shows that 3,817 contracts, worth $235 million, were awarded to 568 companies owned by women or minorities during the program's first year, the fiscal year that ran from July 1992 through June 1993.
Another $35 million in subcontracts were supposed to have been awarded under the program, but the department said it was unable to identify them.
Most of the contracts that the city was able to identify were small, involving the purchase of supplies and services. The Times studied 135 relatively large contracts awarded by various city agencies to 56 companies for construction, a field long dominated by companies owned by white men.
The Times researched the contracts by requesting data from a dozen city agencies through a legally enforceable request under the Freedom of Information Act. Some agencies took as much as three months to respond to the requests.
The examination found that $34 million in contracts listed by the Department of Business Services were not awarded or have been canceled since they were awarded last year. It also determined, by using other city records, that 9 of the 56 corporations have close connections with white businessmen. The companies received three of the five largest contracts awarded under the program, and they were awarded a total of $18 million in contracts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); SURVEYS AND SERIES; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); WOMEN; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; CONTRACTS MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (90%); WOMEN (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (89%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (89%); CITIES (89%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); CONTRACT AWARDS (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); MAYORS (88%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); INTERVIEWS (71%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; LUECK, THOMAS J; DINKINS, DAVID N; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



612 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 931 words

HEADLINE: Haitian Dissident Tells Of Rape by Police Agents

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, June 24

 BODY:
Nearly a month after four armed police agents raped her because of her political activities, Rose Margui Lormil's biggest problem is that the scars she carries from the experience are not visible.
Miss Lormil, 24, is a member of Comme Il Faut, or As It Should Be, a grass-roots organization whose loyalists have been hunted by the Haitian military since the army seized power in a coup in September 1991. 
 She shudders as she recounts the rape and the weeks of hiding and terror that followed.
 
'No Other Choice for Me'
 "I must get out of my country now," said Miss Lormil, looking frail in a red polka-dot dress, one of the few pieces of clothing she managed to take with her when she fled. "There is no other choice for me."
But her safe conduct out of the country is anything but certain, like the fate of thousands of her compatriots before her in the 33 months since President Jean-Bertrand Aristide fled into exile.
With no police report of the rape, nor a card showing membership in any of Haiti's hundreds of grass-roots political groups, she must prove to the satisfaction of American immigration officials that she has a credible fear of political persecution.
Though Miss Lormil's case will soon be decided by American officials here in Haiti, the challenge she faces is little different from that of dozens of boat people who flee this country each week only to be intercepted by the United States Coast Guard.
Under a new policy of the Clinton Administration, Haitians who are stopped at sea while fleeing by boat are transferred to an American-leased ship off Jamaica for consideration of their pleas for asylum in the United States.
Whether they are interviewed here or at sea, Haitian asylum seekers must win over heavily burdened immigration agents who have to make snap decisions on the credibility of their claims.
 
Subjective Judgments
 Judgments like these often determine the fate of an individual, but they remain highly subjective in a society where political terror is rampant and documentation is hard to come by.
Miss Lormil's story seems typical to anyone who has spoken with large numbers of Haitian refugees. The abundance of such stories has fueled unending tensions between the Administration, which is seeking to contain a wave of emigration, and advocates for the refugees, who say those who flee have never been treated justly.
In a meeting in the home of foreigners who have helped shelter them, Miss Lormil and her boyfriend, Bouz Bellerice, 24, told how they were followed during a stroll near the downtown area of Port-au-Prince.
Mr. Bellerice is also a member of Comme Il Faut, which sprang up in the coastal town of Grande-Goave in 1986 during the demonstrations that led to the fall of the Duvalier family dictatorship. Fearing arrest, Mr. Bellerice said he tried to hide political documents, some of which bore Father Aristide's picture, before the men shadowing them approached.
When the four men drew near in a public park, Miss Lormil and Mr. Bellerice said, an aggressive round of questioning began, and within moments the men began beating Mr. Bellerice, forcing him to the ground while they hit him with sticks.
With dusk falling, the two said, one of their attackers raped Miss Lormil in the park. Mr. Bellerice said the men warned him that if he protested, the two would be killed.
 
Taken to a Courtyard
 Miss Lormil said she was taken to the ethnology department at the University of Haiti and raped in a courtyard there by each of the men over the next two hours.
"They were carrying .45's," Miss Lormil said. "At that point I hoped they would kill me." When the men finished attacking her, she said, they forced her to give them her address and then left her in the courtyard.
Mr. Bellerice and Miss Lormil met at their house later that evening but have not gone back since, for fear that the men might return. Almost immediately, Miss Lormil applied for political asylum at a downtown office set up by the American Embassy to receive such claims. Her interview with an immigration official is expected in the next few days, but she has been given no indication of when a decision will be made.
Mr. Bellerice, an unemployed auto mechanic apprentice, said he was not seeking asylum abroad because he wanted to remain in Haiti to work for political change.
Miss Lormil said she had sought medical help in the days after she was raped, but had not thought to get a copy of the medical report and could not recall the name of the doctor. Diplomats say details like those are often deciding factors in whether or not a Haitian will be granted refuge in the United States.
What identifies the attack by the four men as political, the two say, are the insults hurled at them as Aristide supporters during the incident, and a string of threatening telephone calls in the days before the rape.
As they shift hiding places, the two find themselves in the same situation as most Haitians who have fled this country. "All we have is our story," Mr. Bellerice said.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Hundreds of Refugees Held
 MIAMI, June 25 -- More than 300 Haitians were intercepted at sea today, bringing the two-day total of refugees found in international waters by the United States Coast Guard to more than 500.
Coast Guard officials in Miami said that the Haitians had been rescued from eight badly overloaded wooden boats and were being taken to Jamaica where immigration officials would determine which of them would be eligible for political asylum in the United States.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rose Margui Lormil and Bouz Bellerice, both 24, describing their experience as fugitives on Thursday in a hideaway in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. They say they were attacked in May by men allied with the police. (Daniel Morel for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: ASYLUM (POLITICAL); TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SEX CRIMES; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); REFUGEES (88%); IMMIGRATION (87%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ARMIES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); COUPS (76%); TERRORISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); COASTAL AREAS (69%); 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



613 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan Pushes to Rebuild Its Position in Global Community

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan, June 25

 BODY:
After years of international isolation, including expulsion from the United Nations and the loss of diplomatic recognition by all but a handful of countries, Taiwan has embarked on an aggressive diplomatic campaign to re-establish itself as a legitimate member of the global community, a campaign that has enraged China.
For the past six months, Taiwan's President, Lee Teng-hui, has engaged in what is called "vacation diplomacy" across southeast Asia, arranging golf outings to coincide with meetings with regional leaders. Mr. Lee has also visited Costa Rica and Nicaragua and appeared in Pretoria last month for the inauguration of Nelson Mandela as President of South Africa, one of the countries that still recognizes this island's sovereignty. 
 Taiwan has begun to sound out countries in Europe, Asia and the Western Hemisphere on whether they would support the country's readmission to the United Nations. Taiwan's Prime Minister, Lien Chan, has proclaimed this as one of Taiwan's central diplomatic goals.
 
'We Have to Break Through'
 "We call on the international community to recognize that the Republic of China exists," said Mr. Lee, upon returning from his trip to South Africa. "We have to break through the mainland's diplomatic blockade and gain a seat in international society."
In promoting its claims for renewed international recognition, Taiwan has trumpeted its democratic politics, its free markets and its growing economic influence, fueled by Taiwan's substantial investments in the region. Mr. Lee and other senior Taiwanese officials have also repeatedly pointed out that this island of 21 million people is the world's 12th largest trader and has the 20th largest economy, with a gross national product of $220 billion.
China has consistently opposed Taiwan's efforts to rejoin the United Nations, or indeed any effort by Taiwan to raise its international stature, since it regards such moves as efforts to assert Taiwan's independence. China formally considers Taiwan to be one of its provinces and requires all countries recognizing Beijing to declare that Taiwan remains an integral part of China.
But Mr. Lee's diplomatic offensive coincides with a growing sense of distance from China among the Taiwanese, not merely because of the political hostility, but because of a progressive cultural alienation from a country that is increasingly seen as brutal, lawless, corrupt and irrelevant to Taiwan's future.
 
'Nothing to Do With Our Lives'
 "People are alienated talking about China," said Parris H. Chang, an opposition member of Taiwan's legislature. "It has nothing to do with our lives. I am very pleased to see Lee Teng-hui going abroad. He's doing exactly what we want to do."
Jason C. Hu, the Government's senior spokesman, said: "Because we are well developed economically and are democratic, we believe we should be received more warmly internationally."
"We are an independent sovereignty at the moment," he said. "There is no one above us. But all this is being done under a one-China policy. We say our reinvolvement in the U.N. -- I don't say readmission -- would provide a better way to interact with the people of the mainland. We are realistic enough to see that this may not happen in the short term. But we have to be pragmatic. We are two political entities."
These moves, however, have infuriated China, which sees Mr. Lee as moving toward promoting Taiwan's formal independence, a status that Beijing has warned it would stop through armed intervention, if necessary. In a recent, harshly worded commentary in the official Beijing newspaper, the People's Daily, China accused Mr. Lee of betraying Taiwan's links to China.
"How can Lee Teng-hui kowtow like this to foreign leaders?" the Beijing paper demanded. "Where has Chinese feeling gone? Lee does not understand Chinese feeling and does not know that problems among the Chinese are solved internally and not with foreigners. The leaders of mainland China are calling for dialogue with the government in Taiwan, but Lee prefers to talk to foreigners."
Taiwan no longer talks about reasserting sovereignty over the mainland. But Mr. Hu, the government spokesman, said that "we don't rule out unification," a possibility he linked to China becoming a free and democratic country. He conceded that "no one is holding their breath" about that, however.
Not only China has been cool to Taiwan's sudden offensive. Last month, when Mr. Lee was flying to Central America, the United States refused to permit him to stay overnight in Hawaii, where his plane had stopped for refueling.
 
Facing 'the Realities'
 But several official foreign observers here contend that 45 years after the Communists seized control of China, banishing the Nationalists under Chiang Kai-shek to Taiwan, the links between China and Taiwan have ruptured forever.
"The whole question of national identity is in many ways a core issue here," said an Asian observer. "It it coming into discussions more and more. The realities are that Taiwan is large, does exist and is a force to be reckoned with in economic terms. Now they feel they should be given some international space. It's an emotional, psychological thing. They feel inferior. They feel they are treated as pariahs."
Taiwan's search for international respectability will not be easy. Entry into the United Nations is regarded as unlikely by foreign diplomats.
The chief obstacle to Taiwan's enhanced stature, many foreign observers as well as Taiwanese contend, is the insistence by the United States that Taiwan is an inseparable part of China, and that any move by Washington to elevate relations with Taipei would endanger relations with Beijing.
Still, both the Government and the opposition are convinced that the island's future can only be assured by establishing the principle of independent sovereignty. "You will find," said Mr. Chang, the opposition legislator, "that this pace of getting Taiwan recognized as a separate political entity will accelerate in the next two years."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Lee Teng-hui of Taiwan, seated among his bodyguards, smiling in a legislative session last month as lawmakers hurled insults at one another. He is working to raise his country's global status. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIWAN; CHINA; TAIWAN (99%); CHINA (97%); SOUTH AFRICA (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); ASIA (92%); COSTA RICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NICARAGUA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; DIPLOMATIC RECOGNITION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); POLITICS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

PERSON: GARGAN, EDWARD A MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



614 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Texas and California: 2 Views of Illegal Aliens

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: EL PASO

 BODY:
In California, where sentiment against illegal aliens runs strong, Senator Barbara Boxer's proposal to use the National Guard to patrol the Mexican border was considered rather modest. But in Texas, when Jim Mattox, a Democratic candidate for the Senate, suggested this spring that the military be used to crack down on illegal immigration, his opponent jumped all over him.
Mr. Mattox had been the early favorite in the Democratic field, but he lost in the April runoff election to Richard Fisher, who said: "South Texans don't want tanks on their lawns." Mr. Fisher carried El Paso County by a margin of nearly 3 to 2, swept practically every other border county and suffered no backlash elsewhere. 
 While the campaign was about more than immigration, it served as a potent reminder that attitudes about immigration and its political ramifications are by no means monolithic in the two most populous states along the Mexican border.
Immigration is much less of a hot-button topic in Texas than in California. The reasons, many immigration and political experts say, include the relative strength of the two states' economies as well as differences in geography and history. And with the Governors of California and Texas up for re-election this fall, there are striking differences in how each is dealing with the immigration issue.
 
'Save Our State' Initiative
 In California, Gov. Pete Wilson, a Republican, has made illegal immigration a centerpiece of his campaign, proposing an amendment to the Constitution to deny citizenship to those born on American soil. He recently announced that he favored an initiative on the November ballot that would deny schooling and nonemergency medical care to illegal aliens.
In Texas, Gov. Ann W. Richards, a Democrat, has made no such proposals and does not talk at length about illegal immigration, focusing more on business ties with Mexico.
Mexico's Deputy Foreign Minister, Andres Rozental, recently praised Ms. Richards for promoting trade. "She comes to Mexico," Mr. Rozental said in an interview with The San Diego Union-Tribune, Mr. Wilson's hometown newspaper. "We have a dialogue with her. We are able to discuss issues. And we have none of that with Mr. Wilson."
Even when Governor Richards decided recently to file a Texas version of California's lawsuit to try to win Federal reimbursement for the costs of illegal immigration, she went out of her way to portray the matter as a budget dispute with Washington, not an attack on illegal aliens.
Governor Richards was notably absent last week when Mr. Wilson and the Governors of Florida and Arizona, which are also suing over the costs of illegal immigration, went to Washington to complain in person. A spokeswoman said she had a prior speaking commitment in Texas.
To be sure, plenty of Texans complain about illegal immigration. And few politicians here would go as far as Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York City or Gov. Mario M. Cuomo of New York, both of whom have recently made highly favorable comments about illegal aliens.
El Paso is the site of perhaps the most draconian effort to deter illegal crossings along the Mexican border. A 20-mile wall of Border Patrol agents along the Rio Grande has reduced the number of attempted illegal crossings by up to 75 percent.
The operation has much support in El Paso, a city that is often said to be joined at the hip with its larger Mexican neighbor, Ciudad Juarez. Some people here blame illegal aliens for rising crime and resent them for showing up destitute.
 
Cutting Into Business
 But many local leaders and business owners openly fret about economic consequences.
Sylvia Soliz, who owns a small store on South El Paso Street that sells shoes and T-shirts, said her business had plummeted by almost 50 percent since the border operation began.
El Paso's Mayor, Larry Francis, said he preferred the border operation to such radical steps as an amendment to the Constitution or a ban on schooling and health care.
Many people in El Paso, which has a population of 515,000 and is 70 percent Hispanic, support a balanced approach to illegal immigration.
"We should deal with it," said Joe Carrizales Jr., a jewelry store manager who moved here legally with his parents from Juarez 20 years ago. "But it's not that drastic a problem. And with a lot of politicians, it comes out in a real prejudicial way. It's like: 'Let's go after the Hispanic community. Let's get the troops after them.' "
Experts say the healthier economy in Texas and the less generous -- and less expensive -- social services here help explain why illegal immigration is seen here as a less serious problem, compared with California.
"It is just part of the American psyche," said Arturo Vargas, vice president of the Mexican American Legal Defense and Educational Fund, "that in poor economic times, there is a scapegoat to be sought after."
Texas also has fewer illegal aliens.. It estimates that 3 percent of its population is illegal, compared with a 7 percent estimate by California. The Federal Immigration and Naturalization Service insists that the actual figures are lower in both cases.
While both states have a roughly equal percentage of Hispanic residents, about 25 percent, Texas has a much lower percentage of foreign-born residents and a long-established Mexican-American political presence in many border cities. Running for a Congressional seat in South Texas in 1902, John Nance Garner, who went on to become Vice President under Franklin D. Roosevelt, assiduously courted voters along the Rio Grande.
"Along a good deal of the border, 8 out of 10 of those spoke only Spanish," Mr. Garner's biographer, Marquis James, wrote in 1939. "John had learned enough Spanish to pass the time of day with his Latin constituents, and he could cuss very satisfactorily in that tongue."
 
Editorial Criticism
 The border cities are hundreds of miles away from Texas's biggest cities, Houston and Dallas. But in California, the main border crossing point is just a few miles from downtown San Diego.
A recent editorial in The Los Angeles Times criticized Governor Wilson for what it said was the "clumsy and hostile way in which his administration has dealt with Mexico and Mexicans." It also unfavorably compared Governor Wilson with Governor Richards: "When Wilson goes to the border, he usually stays on the U.S. side and campaigns for votes. When Richards goes, she crosses over into Mexico and invites constructive engagement."
But Leslie A. Goodman, a Wilson spokeswoman, said the criticism was "dishonest" and unfair because Mr. Wilson was a champion of the North American Free Trade Agreement. Ms. Goodman said the Governor was trying to address a budget crisis with his immigration proposals, not provoke a fight with Mexico, and she pointed to recent favorable comments about Mr. Wilson by Ernesto Ruffo Appel, the Governor of Baja California, California's neighboring Mexican province.
"I know him, and I know he is a positive man," Governor Appel told border governors at a conference a few weeks ago. "I know he likes Mexicans. I understand very much the problems my colleague Pete is suffering in California."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although El Paso is just a bridge away from Ciudad Juarez, Mexico, the two cities have fostered a relationship based on economic interests instead of focusing on the problem of illegal immigration. (Bruce Berman for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "Immigrants in Texas and California" shows the states population, number of illegal immigrants and yearly spending for each, the foreign-born population, the hispanic population and the value of exports to Mexico in 1992 (Source: Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (98%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: EL PASO, TX, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CALIFORNIA; TEXAS; UNITED STATES (98%); MEXICO (98%); TEXAS, USA (98%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); EL PASO, TX, USA (93%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS; ELECTION ISSUES; PUBLIC OPINION ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (94%); IMMIGRATION (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); REFERENDUMS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REFUGEES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; WILSON, PETE (GOV); RICHARDS, ANN W (GOV) BARBARA BOXER (73%); RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



615 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1443 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Premier's Fall Forces Shift by the U.S. at Trade Talks

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 25

 BODY:
Just when it seemed that a year of tortuous trade negotiations with Japan was about to bear fruit, the resignation of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata today is likely to leave the United States waiting once again in frustration, unable to reach market-opening agreements before a summit meeting next month of the seven leading industrialized nations.
The political turmoil arising from Mr. Hata's resignation could divert Japan's attention from the trade talks just as negotiators are set to enter the final, critical week that will determine whether the two nations can forge agreements before the meeting in Naples to increase sales in Japan of foreign insurance policies, automobiles, telecommunications and medical equipment. 
 The setback is forcing an uncomfortable change in the Clinton's Administration's position. Washington's best hope now for a speedy agreement is to count on Japan's bureaucrats, whom it once derided as being the recalcitrant gatekeepers of Japan's economy.
The Clinton Administration had been counting on political reformers, represented by Mr. Hata and his predecessor, Morihiro Hosokawa, to open Japan's markets by forcing their will on the reluctant bureaucrats.
But Japan is about to get its fourth Prime Minister since the so-called "trade framework" agreement setting ground rules for the negotiations was signed a little less than a year ago. And it now seems that there will not be a strong political leader in Japan for months, if not years, until a stable new political system evolves to replace nearly four decades of one-party rule by the Liberal Democratic Party.
It is possible that the vacancy in the Prime Minister's office can be filled next week and even that Mr. Hata will be re-elected, meaning there will be little loss of momentum in economic policies. But whoever takes the office is likely to be hamstrung by the same coalition politics that weakened Mr. Hata and Mr. Hosokawa. And the new Prime Minister is likely to remain in office only until the next general election, probably at the end of the year.
"There aren't too many viable politicians around," said a United States Government official. He said officials were hopeful that Japan's ministries would have enough authority and leeway to negotiate an agreement on their own and that it was now just a matter of ironing out details.
But that could be wishful thinking. Eventually, politicians are called in to resolve difficult questions -- to make a "political decision," in the parlance of negotiators.
"If there is a political vacuum for some time, I think the talks will be halted," a Japanese trade official said today.
 
Avoiding a 'Political Vacuum'
 After serving only two months as Prime Minister, Mr. Hata announced his resignation today just before the Parliament was scheduled to vote on a no-confidence motion that would almost certainly have ejected him from office. He said resigning would avert the "political vacuum" that would arise if he instead called for new elections -- his other option had he lost the no-confidence vote.
But many political analysts think the struggle among the various parties to form a new governing coalition will leave a vacuum nevertheless, just as Japan is facing economic decisions.
In addition to negotiating agreements on specific trade sectors, Japan is supposed to unveil a new package of measures by the end of the month to deregulate its economy, cut income taxes and increase long-term public spending, all measures sought by the United States.
This package could be left incomplete because of the political confusion. And if a new party comes into power, it could conceivably throw all the plans of the old regime out the window.
 
Parts of Plan Opposed
 The Socialists oppose parts of the tax reform plan that is advocated by Mr. Hata's ruling coalition. The Liberal Democratic Party might ease up on deregulation to protect traditional constituents like farmers, small-shop keepers and construction companies.
By increasing the probability that the trade talks will stall, the political confusion could lead to a rise in the Japanese yen, which is already pressing up against the psychological barrier of 100 to the dollar.
Political confusion could also delay Japan's nascent economic recovery. Growth in the economy would allow Japan to buy more imports and would have the greatest effect in the short run of lessening the country's towering trade surplus.
Still, some experts said that no matter who takes power, Japan will gradually move in the direction of deregulation, opening its markets and increasing spending on public works. This is a consensus society, and the consensus is that such measures are needed, not to appease the United States but to make sure Japan's economy remains as vibrant as it has been in the past.
"They have no choice but to follow the lines that have been laid by the Hata administration," said Takeshi Kondo, general manager of the office of political and economic research at Itochu Corporation, a major trading company. "There are no viable political options."
 
No Deadlines, U.S. Says
 To some extent, Washington has already laid the groundwork for playing down any disappointment at the summit meeting in Naples, which will run from July 8-10. It has said that there are no deadlines for the trade negotiations and that it is willing to accept agreements in individual sectors rather than all or nothing. In February when the trade talks broke down at the summit meeting between President Clinton and Mr. Hosokawa, Washington had rejected piecemeal agreements.
Despite such statements, both nations have a strong interest in producing some agreement at the summit meeting. Both want to stop the battering of the dollar in world currency markets, which threatens to accelerate inflation in the United States and imperil the budding economic rebound in Japan. Japan's huge trade surplus is a major reason the dollar is weak against the yen, so any setback in trade talks could send the yen higher.
Further delays risk undermining the credibility of the trade strategy toward Japan, which was supposed to yield measurable results in opening Japan's markets. So far, it has not even yielded measurable results in forging agreements.
For the next few days, Japanese political involvement in the trade talks will not be needed. The matter will be in the hands of the bureaucrats, who are hammering away at the nitty-gritty of changing Government bidding procedures and measuring access to Japan's auto market.
United States officials say that if agreements are to be reached before the Naples meeting, they should be concluded by next weekend. Otherwise, the talks might be postponed until after the meeting.
The Administration wants to avoid last-minute negotiations at the Naples meeting itself because they could lead to an embarrassing disappointment, like the letdown in February when trade talks collapsed at a meeting between Mr. Hosokawa and President Clinton.
Negotiators say that an agreement on insurance has the best chance of being concluded in time for the summit meeting. Talks on Japanese Government procurement of telecommunications and medical equipment, which once seemed to be moving smoothly, have hit some roadblocks recently, though it is not out of the question that an agreement will be reached before the Naples meeting. An accord on automobile and auto parts, which account for the bulk of Japan's trade surplus with the United States, is not expected.
 
Slow Progress on Deregulation
 On deregulation of the economy, another goal sought by the United States, Japan announced an initial plan in March but left some key points unresolved, including a permanent income tax cut to spur consumer spending, an increase in public works spending to help stimulate the economy and draw in imports, and concrete details on deregulation.
Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, dismissed the March plan as "half-finished work" that was "of limited substance."
The new deregulation plan is expected to be announced as scheduled. While it is stronger and more comprehensive than the March plan, it might still disappoint Washington. The problem is not Mr. Hata's resignation, but his inattention to the issue over the last two months.
"If we had had a stronger Cabinet, we would have had a much stronger deregulation package," said a bureaucrat who worked on the plan.
The tax cut might be left for the next administration since tax reform was one of the issues that kept the Socialists from rejoining Mr. Hata's coalition and averting his resignation as Prime Minister.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata of Japan entering the room yesterday where he held a news conference announcing his resignation. The change in the Government in Tokyo is likely to cause a setback in United States trade negotiations with Japan at a final critical phase. (Associated Press) (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; INSURANCE; AUTOMOBILES; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); INSURANCE POLICIES (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (69%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; HATA, TSUTOMU (PRIME MIN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



616 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: 'Pangs of Conscience' as Man Admits Raping Girl

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
A man walked into a police station and turned himself in early yesterday in the rape of an 11-year-old Queens girl, the police said.
With police sketches of the rapist plastered throughout Queens Village and other sections of the borough, the man, Creston L. Harry, 25, went to the 112th Precinct station house shortly after midnight and gave statements implicating himself in the June 1 assault, the police said. 
 Mr. Harry lives at 99-30 212th Street, a few blocks from the site where the girl was raped, the police said.
"He had pangs of conscience," said Capt. Robert Cea of the Queens Detective Bureau at a news conference late yesterday afternoon. "He went to a friend and told him that this bothered him tremendously."
 
Police Weren't Close
 "After a conference with friends who wished to stay anonymous, he decided to go to the police," the captain said, adding that the police had not been close to making an arrest.
Captain Cea said the suspect, whowas unemployed and had worked previously in a hospital cafeteria, was a Canadian citizen who immigrated here in 1983.
On June 1, around 2:30 P.M., the girl was walking home from Saints Joachim and Anne School on Hollis Avenue when a man accosted her near 214th Street, threatened her with a knife and forced her to go behind an abandoned house, the police said. There, in a backyard overgrown with shrubbery, the man assaulted her, then took her to a nearby lot and assaulted her again, the police said.
After he released her, the girl staggered home and was later treated and released from Mary Immaculate Hospital.
Mr. Harry was charged with rape, sodomy, sexual abuse and unlawful imprisonment, said Sgt. Anthony Barlanti, a police spokesman.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 002235 (SZSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS322121 PAPER (EXCEPT NEWSPRINT) MILLS (55%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); XIAMEN ANNE CORP LTD (55%); QUEENS DETECTIVE BUREAU (73%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS DETECTIVE BUREAU (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SEX CRIMES; CHILD ABUSE SEX OFFENSES (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CHILD ABUSE (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (89%); CRIMINAL FALSE IMPRISONMENT (78%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (78%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; HARRY, CRESTON L CRESTON L HARRY (91%); ROBERT CEA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



617 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 266 words

HEADLINE: UConn Seeks 2% Higher Tuition

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WEST HARTFORD, Conn., June 25

 BODY:
University of Connecticut leaders have proposed a 2 percent tuition increase, the smallest in 13 years.
If approved by trustees, most students would pay slightly less than $10,000 a year to attend the university in fall 1995. 
 University administrators proposed raising tuition for full-time, in-state undergraduates by $76 in 1995-96, from $3,824 to $3,900.
With room, board and most other fees set to rise 2 percent as well, in-state undergraduates living on the Storrs campus would pay $9,980 a year to attend the university in 1995-96, up from $9,784 this fall. Six straight years of double-digit increases have made the university the eighth most expensive public university in the country in some surveys.
President Harry J. Hartley said it was important to keep the cost below $10,000 a year.
The university trustees' budget and finance committee unanimously approved the tuition increase on Friday. The entire board will vote on it on July 15. The committee also approved general fund budgets of $168.2 million for 1995-96 and $169.5 million for 1996-97, which still must be approved by the Legislature.
The second year of that budget carries a tentative tuition increase of 3.5 percent, or $136.
A year ago, the university's trustees had pledged to try to keep the tuition increase below the rate of inflation. This month, some trustees, including the board chairman, Lewis B. Rome, had been pushing for no increase, out of concern that Connecticut residents were being priced out of their state university. But Mr. Rome said he would not oppose the 2 percent increase.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (93%); UNIVERSITY OF CONNECTICUT (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TUITION TUITION FEES (95%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: LEWIS B ROME (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



618 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 8; Page 9; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1496 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
The Owners Are of One Mind, So They Use the Same Words

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
Members of the Cincinnati Reds received a letter from their owner last week. "Love, Marge Schott," she signed it. Players on the Oakland Athletics' roster received a letter from the chairman of their team. "Very truly yours, Wally Haas," he signed it. The owner of the Florida Marlins wrote to his players, too, but opted to be more informal. "Sincerely, Wayne," he signed his letter, omitting his last name, Huizenga.
To say that those owners and the other 25 wrote to their players would not be literally correct. They sent their players letters with their signatures, but they didn't write the letters. That is, they didn't write them unless they all had the same exact thought to write the same exact words. 
 The form of the letters resembled the mass letters the White House and members of Congress receive from groups lobbying for action by the President or enactment of a particular bill. In this instance, the form letter was provided by the Player Relations Committee. Addressed to each player individually by his first name, the letters began:
"Enclosed is a memorandum from Dick Ravitch, the Owners' Chief Negotiator, summarizing the economic proposal we made to your union on June 14. Because I believe that the current round of bargaining is crucial to both sides, I have decided to communicate to you directly the terms of the proposal we gave to the Union."
The letter goes on to say that "communications can be difficult" because owners and players are "spread across the country." Then each owner purports to say, though he or she really is being less than forthright, "For instance, I have read statements indicating that, under our proposal, four- and five-year Players would have less bargaining leverage than they do today."
Did the owners themselves actually read those statements? Probably only if their labor negotiators included the statements in a package with the form letter they were told to send to their players under their names.
The letters are so identical that in the third paragraph of each, the word "each" is underlined.
"It is my hope," each owner said in conclusion (and collusion?), "that you will stay fully informed on the important matters at issue in these labor negotiations so that you will be able to make decisions that are fair to you but also in the best interests of baseball. I will keep you posted on the progress of the negotiations."
As the clinching gimmick on these letters, the alleged authors had their secretaries type their initials as the person who wrote or dictated the letter. Except HWH and WJH didn't write their letters. The initials should have been RR or CPO or RM or LM or JW, whichever management labor executive or lawyer wrote it.
Last week's correspondence might have been the first sent directly from management to players since Peter Ueberroth, then the commissioner, bypassed the Players Association, which had rebuffed him, and wrote to the players in 1985 appealing to them to accept a drug-testing program. They didn't.
 
That Curious Salary Cap
 What the owners didn't tell the players in their letters last week was some of the more curious details of their salary cap proposal.
For example, in the three-year transition from this year's payrolls to a fully implemented cap in 1998, clubs that are over the cap would have to reduce the excess each year -- by 25 percent, by 50 percent, by 75 percent. But if a club is under the minimum payroll, it would not have to narrow by similar ratios the distance it sits from that minimum.
Instead, the proposal would allow clubs to reduce their payrolls even further. In 1995, clubs could have payrolls totaling only 25 percent of the minimum; in 1996, 50 percent of the minimum, and in 1997, 75 percent.
The Padres currently have a $13 million payroll. Add other player costs, and the total would be more than $15 million. But that still would be well under the minimum that would be established for next season. If that figure were $30 million, the Padres would need to have a 1995 payroll of only $7.5 million, which means salaries would be even less.
In another provision of the proposal, any club caught trying to circumvent the salary cap or hiding any part of a contract with a player could be fined $1 million. The proposal, however, does not include a provision that would impose a fine on any team or the owners as a group if they were caught hiding revenue so that the players' share would, in reality, be less than the proposed 50 percent.
The unions in the National Basketball Association and the National Football League have discovered revenue those leagues did not include in the pool to be shared with the players.
Maybe these details will be in the next friendly letters the owners write.
 
More Striking to Others
 The threat of a strike hangs over the season, but its shadow appears more ominous for some teams and players than others.
The Cleveland Indians, for example, have built a surprisingly healthy lead in the American League Central Division. They could be on the verge of winning their first division championship ever and be in position to win their first pennant in 40 years, but what happens if the players strike and the two sides fail to reach an agreement in time to salvage the rest of the season and the post-season?
The Yankees are in first place in the A.L. East. They haven't won a divison title since 1981, and George Steinbrenner is reminded frequently that this has been the longest stretch the Yankees have gone without a first-place finish since they started finishing first in 1921.
The Texas Rangers have neverwon a division championship, and they lead the A.L. West. Of course, they lead it with a record well under .500 -- five games before last night's game. That's one area where a strike might benefit baseball. It would spare it the embarrassment of having a losing team compete for a spot in the World Series.
On an individual basis, Ken Griffey Jr. has the most to lose from a work stoppage of any length because he has propelled himself into position to chase Roger Maris's home run record.
But one individual could benefit from an abbreviated season. While Paul O'Neill has attracted widespread attention for his batting average of over .400 -- which now has shrunk to under .400 -- the hitter to watch is Tony Gwynn of the San Diego Padres.
Gwynn has not been at .400 since May 15, but he took a .384 average into last night's game, and he's the best pure hitter in baseball. He is capable of staying in the high .300's, then spurting onto .400 and beyond. If he should follow that pattern and reach the elusive plateau just before a strike, a season-ending stoppage could give the major leagues their first .400 hitter in 53 years.
Would Gwynn's feat be tainted? Certainly, but his average for the 1994 season would start with a 4 forevermore.
 
Who Would Figure Colorado?
 With divisional realignment, the popular preseason view went, all the San Francisco Giants had to do to win the National League West was show up. Nearly halfway through the season, it's not so popular anymore.
"I'm one of the few who didn't buy that argument," Bob Quinn, the Giants' general manager, said. "First, the Dodgers won 81 games last year. I figured they'd win more than 81 this season. Then there's Colorado."
The Rockies? A team in its second season has a chance to challenge the Giants, who won 103 games last season?
"Don Baylor and Larry Bearnarth deserve credit," Quinn said. "The Rockies don't have Ellis Burks, and Howard Johnson isn't producing. But they've been getting great seasons out of their role players. I feared them because Bearnarth has done a great job with the pitching staff. You get visiting staffs coming in fearful of throwing the ball over the plate there. But their pitchers have done a tremendous job."
The Giants, on the other hand, continue to struggle.
"The team went from having the best batting average in the league to where we're last, not by a little bit but a considerable number," Quinn said, referring to their drop from .276 to .240. "We're also last in driving in runners in scoring position."
The Giants have suffered an assortment of serious injuries, but Quinn said: "Injuries are for alibi guys. You have to play through them."
Perhaps the departure of Will Clark as a free agent has had more of an effect on the Giants than his 1993 performance would indicate.
"I don't think that's an issue here at all," Quinn said. Some of the players, however, think differently, though they won't discuss it publicly.
The drastic drop in offense prompted the Giants to sign Darryl Strawberry. The club expects him to be ready to play just before or after the All-Star break. Preparing for his comeback, Strawberry works out at an undisclosed location accompanied by two baseball people, a conditioning coach and a fourth person overseeing his after-care program after his stay in a drug rehabilitation center.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tony Gwynn of the San Diego Padres could have a batting average of .400 if a strike causes a shorter season. (Barton Silverman/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); 

CITY: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL OWNERS ASSOCIATION CINCINNATI REDS (73%); CINCINNATI REDS (84%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); CINCINNATI REDS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); FLORIDA MARLINS (58%); FLORIDA MARLINS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL OWNERS ASSOCIATION CINCINNATI REDS (84%); OAKLAND A'S (84%); CINCINNATI REDS (84%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); FLORIDA MARLINS (58%); FLORIDA MARLINS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); OHIO, USA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (87%); LOBBYING (73%); WRITERS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (68%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY MARGARET 'MARGE' SCHOTT (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



619 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Health Care Horror Stories

 BODY:
Critics labeled them horror stories, and they were. On Tuesday night, NBC presented a two-hour news special on health reform that began by focusing on the human disasters caused by a system that denies families the guarantee of adequate health coverage.
Rick Reckoway works hard as an electrician. When his 12-year-old son was born with respiratory and cardiac problems, he thought he did not have a financial worry because he had bought family coverage. Mr. Reckoway discovered that his insurance benefits were capped at $100,000, leaving him $700,000 in debt. He played by all the right rules, and found himself impoverished. 
 Cathi and Perry Thoorsell both work. Yet they do not have $7,000 for health insurance for themselves and their two children. When Cathi suffered a difficult pregnancy, they were hit by whopping bills and went $30,000 in debt. Their lives are haunted by the threat of more medical bills they cannot afford. And they have abandoned any thought of having a third child.
These horror stories, some opponents of reform say, slander the overall excellence of U.S. health care. But the issue is coverage, not quality. The system is riddled with holes through which tens of millions fall -- forcing them to scrounge to get by with no insurance or inadequate insurance. Though the vast majority of Americans say they are happy with their health care, families like the Reckoways and Thoorsells are the tip of a large problem -- a problem that has no place in a wealthy country.
President Clinton has it right: Universal coverage is needed for humanitarian reasons, and economic reasons as well. Without it, health care markets will not work properly. Most reform bills would require insurers to sell to all applicants, healthy or sick, at identical rates. That is fine, but unless there is a parallel obligation for all individuals, healthy families will not buy coverage until someone gets sick. Premiums will thus rise drastically for everyone else. The way around this problem is universal coverage.
There is room to disagree about tactics. Mr. Clinton would impose an employer mandate, requiring employers to pay most of the cost of the policies chosen by workers. That makes sense because it would build upon the system that already provides coverage to most Americans. It is also feasible because, with time to adjust and the help of Federal subsidies, companies would be able to avoid massive layoffs by passing along the costs to workers in the form of lower wage hikes.
Yet furious opposition by small employers has bottled up the idea in the Senate Finance Committee -- a crucial battleground because its membership mirrors that of the full Senate. A group of moderates on the committee -- led by John Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, and John Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island -- put together a measure that avoids an employer mandate. Some of their ideas are sound, primarily a provision to tax lavish health care policies as a way of driving consumers toward cost-effective plans. But their plan fails to lock in universal coverage now or in the future.
Universal coverage can be delayed to give businesses time to adjust to voluntary market reforms. The idea can even be dropped until, say, five or more years from now when it would automatically kick in if voluntary reforms did not achieve universal coverage. But universal coverage cannot be denied unless the country wants to tolerate the spectacle of millions of Reckaways and Thoorsells.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; EDITORIALS INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); FAMILY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (86%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); INSURANCE LAW (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); LIBEL & SLANDER (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (71%); SMALL BUSINESS (60%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (53%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



620 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Will Work Its Way Out of This;
Misleading Data

 BODY:
To the Editor:
What amazes me is that "The Job-Killer Policy," Bob Herbert's June 8 column on the loss of jobs in America, and the concern with an invisible inflation, is so atypical today. If anything, I suspect that the job picture will emerge as one of the penultimate challenges facing our society in this decade. The fact is that the employment picture is suffused with misleading data that either misstate or obfuscate the real issue. 
 What must be recognized is that leading businesses are continuing to move their manufacturing into areas of lower labor costs, and this trend means continuing job erosion in the United States.
For a while, it was believed that this was a natural evolution and a balance would be provided by the service sector. But this simplistic view overlooks some fundamental truths that apply to both manufacturing and the services.
First, many high-paying service jobs are directly related to manufacturing. When a manufacturing job moves elsewhere, the corresponding service-sector job tends to disappear and not be replaced. Then, the lower paying jobs in the service sector do not have the corresponding multiplier effect in the economy that their manufacturing counterparts had. And manufacturing jobs tend overall to be long-lasting and higher-paying than the bulk of service sector jobs.
Compound these realities with the downsizing of industry and now the military, a growing level of immigration, relatively high birth rates among the poor and disenfranchised, a growing number of college educated unemployed and other factors, and we find ourselves with a prescription for crisis, if not now, then later. The big variable at this time is whether small business can balance the ledger. Considering the attitudes of local, state and Federal government to small business, it seems doubtful.
The solution, and what is in short supply these days, is a combination of a spirit of innovation and collective will by our leadership. Unfortunately, it appears that our leadership would rather fiddle with the mundane and irrelevant while our futures go up in flames.
 
LESLIE AARON-FRIEDLIEB
Brooklyn, June 16, 1994
The writer is a management and marketing consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (67%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (67%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; LABOR; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS LAYOFFS (90%); FACTORY WORKERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); GARMENT WORKERS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (75%); RELOCATIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; AARON-FRIEDLIEB, LESLIE CHRISTIAN PIERRET (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



621 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: The Economy Will Work Its Way Out of This

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Leslie Fay's Logic" by Bob Herbert (column, June 19): Mr. Herbert complains about the "loss" of low-skill jobs in the United States to low-wage countries overseas, especially in Central America and Asia. However, he is silent on what he thinks the United States should do about the problem, common to all advanced industrial nations. 
 His latest target is Leslie Fay, a garment manufacturer now in bankruptcy court. To salvage its remaining jobs in distribution and administration, Leslie Fay plans to shift its United States production overseas. In protest, the International Ladies Garment Workers Union struck on June 1, the first such shutdown in the company's 50-year history.
The column, which omits that Leslie Fay is in bankruptcy, suggests that at heart Mr. Herbert is a protectionist, who would raise tariffs and other trade barriers to "protect" jobs in this country. Such a cure would be much worse than the disease.
Blocking textile imports would lead to higher clothing prices, a de facto tax on consumers to subsidize the wages of a tiny minority in the work force. It would be a subsidy for an industry where productivity has been subpar, despite steady improvement over the post-World War II period.
The United States economy is in constant turmoil. Some industries and some companies decline and die, replaced by others that grow and prosper. In the week that 1,000 Leslie Fay workers went out on strike, more than 400,000 other people were hired for new jobs or recalled to old ones.
There were wrenching changes two generations ago, when textile makers moved south from New England. But with new investment, the New England economy emerged stronger than ever, with new skills in new areas. The same will be true in northeast Pennsylvania where Leslie Fay's plants are.
Despite a 19 percent drop in production employment in manufacturing since 1979, output has risen 43.5 percent. That's a gain of more than 75 percent in product per worker.
 America is the world's largest exporter, with merchandise exports among the strongest sectors of the economy. Exports are more than 21 percent of goods produced in the United States, up sharply from 13 percent a decade ago. Excluding oil, outside the usual framework for trade analysis, our international accounts are remarkably close to balance.
High-wage countries such as the United States must recognize they have no alternative but to trade, and no choice but to use low-cost capital at home to compete with low-cost labor abroad. The last thing Washington should do is inhibit the process of creative destruction and renewal that has made this the richest nation on earth.
 
H. ERICH HEINEMANN
New York, June 20, 1994
The writer, a former New York Times reporter, is chief economist of Ladenburg, Thalman & Company, investment bankers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LESLIE FAY CO THE LESLIE FAY CO INC (92%); NEW ENGLAND (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LESLIE FAY CO NEW ENGLAND (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CENTRAL AMERICA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); APPAREL MFG (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); TEXTILES (76%); WOMEN'S APPAREL MFG (76%); FABRIC MILLS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); RELOCATIONS (75%); TEXTILE MFG (75%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (74%); LABOR UNIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PROTECTIONISM (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (73%); TEXTILE MILLS (72%); STRIKES (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (70%); INVESTMENT BANKING (63%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

PERSON: HEINEMANN, H ERICH; HERBERT, BOB MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



622 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: COLLEGE POINT;
Megastore Plan for Corporate Park Draws Fire

BYLINE: By LYNETTE HOLLOWAY 

 BODY:
A city plan to lure megastores to the thriving College Point Corporate Park is being hotly contested by local merchants concerned that the stores would crush prospering mom-and-pop businesses.
Next month, the city's Economic Development Corporation will solicit proposals for large-scale retail development on 500,000 square feet of vacant land at the center, which borders the Whitestone Expressway. Merchants are scheduled to meet next week with officials from Mayor Giuliani's office to discuss the plan. 
 "We are interested in large-scale retail operations which will draw customers from a large market area rather than from the adjacent neighborhood," said Clay B. Lifflander, president of the development corporation. "I believe there is room in this market for both large and small stores."
The proposal comes at a time when the Giuliani administration is grappling with whether it should revise zoning restrictions that make it difficult for giant stores to come to the city. Planning officials recently completed a study that showed there is a shortage of large-scale retail stores, supermarkets and shopping centers in the city. Researchers showed that was due mostly to the lack of appropriately zoned commercial sites.
In recent years, some giant stores have been able to sidestep the laws by narrowing their market focus. Home Depot, which is scheduled to open a store at the former Taystee bakery in Flushing, succeeded by defining its project as a hardware store. That definition, which generated a great public outcry, lets the company avoid the public approval process often necessary for large-scale projects.
In College Point, local merchants say they fear the megastores, which have been cropping up throughout the region and around the country, because they would ravage established operations at the corporate center and surrounding community. Merchants are mobilizing their forces.
"We want to let everybody know that there is opposition to this plan," said Fred J. Massarello, president of the College Point Board of Trade, which represents 175 businesses.
Under the plan, the builders would develop a city-owned parcel that runs along the Whitestone Expressway and two privately owned sites on 20th Avenue. More than 100 businesses, including offices and manufacturers, occupy the corporate center and employ about 4,000 people. Some tenants include Waldbaum's, the Department of Motor Vehicles and the Postal Service, and The New York Times is planning to build a printing plant there. Besides megastores, city officials hope the plan would also attract a movie theater. L.H.

GRAPHIC: Map of Queens showing location of College Point Corporate Park.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COLLEGE POINT BOARD (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLLEGE POINT BOARD (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; COLLEGE POINT (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; SMALL BUSINESS RETAILERS (95%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); CITIES (90%); ZONING (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); HOME CENTERS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); RETAIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (73%); HARDWARE STORES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (73%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (72%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); APPROVALS (71%); RELOCATIONS (71%); BAKERIES (64%); POSTAL SERVICE (61%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



623 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 1; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 3309 words

HEADLINE: Your Wedding

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
If you will settle for nothing less than 16 bridesmaids costumed at Vera Wang, a four-tier butter-cream cake and the Gipsy Kings playing while you skip the light fandango across the Rainbow Room floor with a rose clamped firmly between your teeth, stop reading.
And if your idea of a perfect wedding is a quick lunch-hour stop at City Hall followed by a pastrami on rye on the N train back to the office, you should probably put down the paper right now and do some work, even if it is Sunday. 
 But if you want to be married in New York surrounded by your friends, family and a few people you've never met, feed them all decently and actually have fun in the process without plunging yourself, your future spouse or your parents into deepest penury, what follows was made for you.
Of course, planning, and pricing, a wedding, is a very arbitrary business. Almost any professional wedding planner will swear that you can't be married properly for less than $50,000 -- and that Rainbow Room affair would cost a good deal more. Any number of actual recently married people will insist that they had perfectly wonderful weddings for tens of thousands less. Still, if you've come this far, accept this proposition: an apparently fancy wedding for 100 guests, with sit-down meal, for less than $10,000, with enough permutations and combinations to satisfy any couple who need help but want to maintain at least the illusion of the personal touch.
What makes this artifice possible is the mercantile variety of New York, and the mercantile resourcefulness of New Yorkers. For if on the surface, the city seems prohibitively costly in almost every party category, it is also a town full of consignment shops, wholesalers and secret, inexpensive nooks for dancing. And it is home to hundreds of ethnic restaurateurs who are dying to give you an option to grilled chicken, for half the price.
Finally, since you live in New York, you are, a priori, peculiarly equipped for what might seem like the most difficult planning challenge since Normandy.
You've braved the Department of Motor Vehicles at lunch hour -- what snippy caterer hell-bent on serving mashed potatoes is going to strong-arm you? You spend your summer weekends in your un-air-conditioned studio apartment, so an afternoon plowing through the flower markets in search of cheaper blooms won't phase you. And you're happy to schlep all the way to the South Bronx for a better deal on the antique wicker chair of your dreams, so why wouldn't you be willing to shelve a June wedding in favor of one, say, later in the summer, when all the hotels will be begging for your (discounted) business?
 
Taking the Vows
 First, you must make five prenuptial vows:
1. I will plan ahead with a realistic budget that I intend to stick with. This may mean a few compromises. "You have to pick the most important elements of your fantasy and learn to work with it," said Dennis Wilson, who owns Wilson & Krulen Party and Event Design in Chelsea. "For example, if you want the Rainbow Room but can't afford it, pick out an Art Deco style restaurant."
2. I will beg shamelessly. Now is the time to call in old favors, bargain with friends and start off phone conversations with, "You know, what I'd really most treasure as a wedding gift from you is your time."
3. I will not invite more than 100 people. "People understand that times are tough," said Kenneth L. Gutwillig, vice president of marketing and special events for Locations Etc., an event coordinator on West 26th Street. "If you don't invite your third cousin Irving, he's not going to hate you for the rest of your life."
4. I will not give my guests favors. "Favors are O-U-T, out," said Matty Stein, a co-owner and wedding consultant at Fancy That, a party planning concern on Central Park South. "People junk them on the way home, and the last thing people need are two Godiva chocolates after they've stuffed themselves."
5. I will not be married in June. Actually, June isn't even the most popular month to apply for a wedding license in New York; August is, with June a not-so-close second. (Is this because New Yorkers have caught on?) And this is where cost-cutting begins.
"The best time to get married in New York is in July or August," said Susan Bell, who plans parties through her concern, Saved by the Bell, on the Upper West Side. "Hotels are starving for your business and are more than delighted to book your party." January and February are also good for bargaining, she says, and "Friday nights have also come out of nowhere as a choice for weddings."
Just how good a deal you can expect will, of course, depend on the hotel and your tenacity, but Ms. Bell advises that a place that charges $135 a head in June will often come down to $100 or less in the off-season.
 
Exploring Space
 Logistically and economically, it is a good idea to have your ceremony and reception in the same place. Not only will all your guests thank you for not forcing them to hail cabs en masse under the blazing sun, but you save yourself one rental fee and one set of flowers.
What you are looking for is a beautiful spot that will let you bring your own food and drink. (Reception halls and hotels usually place a severe markup on low-end liquor.)
Some good, simple options are photography studios, which generally have great light, lots of clean, open space and often interesting architectural details. They start at about $800 for an evening, and if you can stomach the idea of calling a photographer for a reception room closer to the last minute, you might be able to get the space for less.
There are also many lofts and private mansions for rent. Some of them advertise, but a good source is Locations Etc., the directory produced by the party planners and available at many bookstores.
One such space is the Ukrainian National Home, on Second Avenue between Ninth Street and St. Marks Place, which seats 300. For $1,200, "I give you tables, chairs and air-conditioning," John Wynnyt, the manager there, said, with an emphasis on the air-conditioning.
 
Catering to You
 Approach a caterer with a budget, and work together to create something you like and can afford, rather than just asking what the caterer offers and figuring out which corners you can cut to get it.
"A good caterer will work very hard to work within your budget," said Mr. Wilson. "If you want caviar and can't afford it, then they should put a dab of caviar in a little new potato," he said. "Remember, this isn't about your caterer. This is about your family, your friends, your wedding. Don't settle for something you don't want."
While you should expect to pay at least $35, and as much as $200, per person, not including tax, for a traditional caterer, many ethnic restaurants offer much lower prices for larger amounts of what may be more interesting food. For roughly $16 a person, for instance, you can offer your guests a spread of Indian food from Passage to India, on East Sixth Street. Not a few slices of nan and some chicken curry, mind you, but several appetizers, bread and a 10-course meal with dessert.
For about the same price, Takada's Catering, a Japanese catering company and cooking school at 131 East 23d Street, will give you a two-and-a-half-hour sushi buffet, complete with a chef who will slice, roll and serve, much to your guests' delight. Increase your budget to $25 a head, and you can have traditional Moroccan couscous, with salads and hors d'oeuvres, from Casablanca Ritz Cafe, 170 Thompson Street in the Village.
 
Bartending
 Luckily for you, people are drinking less, or at least would like to give the impression that they are, and therefore it is socially acceptable for you to serve only wine, perhaps with a few bottles of vodka for good measure.
"You should concentrate on areas that have great wine value," said John Osborne, the buyer for Astor Wines and Spirits in the Village. "Chile and Argentina and the south of France are good. Be careful with wines from California, because not everything on the low end is such a great bargain."
Shop ahead and take a few bottles home to make sure they are acceptable, and then try to bargain a multi-case price. As for Champagne, be smart and use it just for the toast.
(A tip: If you offer your guests a glass of wine the minute they walk in the door, wedding experts say, two-thirds of them on average will stick with wine all for the rest of the night.)
 
All Together Now
 If you have your heart set on the traditional hotel reception, you're almost certain to break the $10,000 budget. Still, you might as well make the best of it.
Try to negotiate bringing your own liquor, and make sure you have fully discussed every detail included in the price. For the average $150 a head, are you getting a cocktail hour? Does the price include the cake and Champagne, the tax and gratuities? Also, ask the hotel if it will base its liquor charge on the actual consumption at your reception, rather than forcing you to estimate your party's capacity and buy it up front.
Some hotels give better deals. For instance, for $115 a person, the Hotel Macklowe offers a wedding banquet in its Hudson Theater at 145 West 44th Street. You can have your ceremony in a foyer surrounded by Tiffany stained glass, then head off for a cocktail hour. This is followed by a four-course meal, cake and an open bar. The real treat here is that you can offer your guests dancing on a 30-by-30-foot Broadway stage, which is nicer than waltzing around a bunch of vinyl chairs that have been shoved off to the side of the room.
Or, consider a nice twist on a hotel reception: the wedding brunch or tea. The average cost of a sit-down dinner reception at the Carlyle Hotel at 76th and Madison is $200 a head, but equally elegant is a wedding high tea. For about $100 a person, Ruth Trager, the director of banquet sales at the hotel, offers tea, Champagne, fruits, scones, smoked salmon and those tiny sandwiches that everyone likes.
For the same price, the Carlyle will do a breakfast with eggs, crepes and Champagne. No extra liquor costs, and everyone goes home full. Your favorite brunch spot might also be able to do a wedding brunch for roughly half the price of a dinner wedding.
As for restaurants, there are as many as there are love stories in New York, and couples may choose a certain spot because they love the food or memories they've consumed there. If that's the case, there's no arguing with romance. But if you're willing to be reasonable, and you know you want a restaurant reception, consider calling places in the financial district that do a Monday through Friday business only, and are willing to open on a weekend for you.
For example, St. Maggie's Cafe, a Victorian-style restaurant on Wall Street, will do weddings on weekend nights, with a five-hour open bar, hors d'oeuvres, a four-course meal of American cuisine and cake for $65 a person, including tax and gratuities.
Have you considered a Chinese wedding banquet? The Sheraton La Guardia East Hotel on 39th Avenue in Flushing offers a traditional 11-course banquet, including the mandatory longevity noodles, for $350 a table (an average table seats 10). Included in the price is a honeymoon suite.
One restaurant that can provide a similar spread for $30 a person (and you can bring your own liquor) is the Triple 8 Palace, a glittering Hong Kong-style room on East Broadway in Chinatown.
 
Cakewalk
 Everyone wants a wedding cake that actually tastes good; few ever really have one. If you've made the mistake of flipping through a bridal magazine, you are probably already suffering acute cake envy. A top-of-the-line cake from Colette's Cake on West 11th Street, for example, is a towering piece of edible architecture, with its sugar flowers, lattice windows and cherubs abounding. Of course, at $12 a slice, you aren't having it.
So why not buy the sugarwork floral bouquet that graces the top for $200, and throw it on a considerably cheaper, non-wedding-specific cake bought elsewhere?
If it must be a wedding cake, top to bottom, there are deals to be had. For $175, Veniero Pasticceria on East 11th Street sells a three-layer yellow sponge cake filled with cannoli cream and decorated with the usual roses, which serves 100. "Some people get their cake here just because their parents and grandparents did," said Robert Zerilli, who works in the cake department.
 
Everything Else
 Even if they are to be modest, you'll want some flowers. The number of flower options, of course, will be directly related to the amount of time you have. You may very well want to have your bouquets made professionally, and do the centerpieces yourself. (Though a few lovely flowers bound with an elegant piece of ribbon will cost you about $5 a bridesmaid.)
Anne-Stewart Hamilton, who was married last November and now plans weddings for others, grew ivy on her terrace and clipped it all off to use as garlands for her entire hall and her cake. She tied up her invitations, bouquets and napkins with ribbons bought in the millinery district (the upper 30's between Fifth Avenue and Avenue of the Americas).
Jennifer Farrington and Sean O'Neill, who were married last month, saved their funky, old-fashioned-style Italian tomato cans for several months before their wedding, then filled them with blooming plants that served as very hip centerpieces for their family-style Italian reception. The cost: $30. "I didn't include the price of the tomato cans," said Ms. Farrington, "because we used them for sauce, anyway."
There are those who believe that the music is actually the most important part of the reception, but that doesn't mean you have to spend a mint on a band that specializes in weddings. For every jazz quartet that wants to charge you $800, there is a good band made up of otherwise-unemployed musicians that can be plucked cheap from your favorite bar.
A lot of people, of course, simply prefer to make their own tapes; they get all the songs they want and have a wonderful tape to play on each anniversary.
There are several approaches to hiring photographers, and of course you will have to look at their books to make sure you like their work, because awful wedding pictures are much worse than, say, bad cake.
You can call an art school's photography department and ask to see the books of some fourth-year students. Also, many couples hire a photographer only for the ceremony, and ask their guests to bring cameras to shoot the candids at the reception, which often end up being just as good, if not better. Finally, skip the parent albums. Your family can pick out what they like and order prints themselves.
For invitations, it is best to bypass the retailers and deal with a printing house. But if you have the time (or can appropriate someone else's), make your own. Ms. Hamilton went to Jam Paper and Envelope, that paper nirvana with stores all over the city, and picked out cream stock paper and envelopes that looked like the expensive kind, a few gold calligraphy pens and some cream ribbon from the millinery district, again.
Her sister wrote them out, tied them up and sent them out. Total cost: $60.
In the end, you will most likely exceed your budget in some areas, and may need to make some arrangements.
If your second cousin is a florist, this is the time to invite her to dinner. If you have friends who are professional photographers, caterers or wine merchants, start thinking of creative ways to ask for their services. Consider barter, even with total strangers.
Jordana Rothschild, 24, who works in public relations, saw herself creeping over her floral budget, so she offered her professional skills in a trade for extra greenery. She somehow dragooned five journalists over to the publicity-hungry florist's loft space, and the florist gave her the flowers she had always dreamed of.
So, the recipe for an affordable, fun wedding in New York: the ceremony and reception in the Ukrainian National home, with a spread of Indian food, a jazz band ferreted out from the subterranean, flower arrangements made yourself and invitations you bribed you best friend to make in exchange for baby-sitting. And bag the limos. If Tony and Tina can walk from their wedding to their reception every night, so can you.
 
THE WINE
 What would a wedding be without Champagne? Cheaper, usually. But not necessarily right now. In fact, Champagne lovers, never was there a better time to tie the knot. Most New York shops are selling French Champagne for as little as $13 and good California sparklers for even less.
If you plan only a reception, you can easily get by with just white wine. If there's going to be a meal, though, you'll need some red. Neither needs be expensive. Some attractive whites might include Georges Duboeuf's Macon-Villages 1993 from France, Hawk Crest Chardonnay, 1992, from California or Seppelt Chardonnay Bin 92 from Australia. Reds might include Mr. Duboeuf's Beaujolais Villages 1993, Ruffino Chianti Classico 1992, or Fetzer Vineyards Valley Oaks Cabernet Sauvignon 1991. None should cost more than $7 a bottle.
If money is extra tight, consider "wine in the box," the 90's answer to jug wine. There are lots of extra grapes in California these days, and some good ones find their way into these five-liter packages with built-in spouts. The cost: $9 to $12, or $1.80 to $2.40 a bottle. FRANK J. PRIAL
 
RESTAURANTS
 Here is a short selection of restaurants ready and willing to put on relatively inexpensive wedding feasts.
* Gascogne, 158 Eighth Avenue (at 18th Street), (212) 675-6564. A charming, out-of-the-way, rustic spot with a delightful garden. Specializes in lusty food of southwest France.
* Arqua, 281 Church Street (at White Street), (212) 334-1888. A big, airy room where the northern Italian fare is authentic, ever-changing and uniformly good.
* Park Bistro, 414 Park Avenue (at 28th Street), (212) 689-1360. Authentic French bistro specializing in Provencal fare and regional French wines.
* Gage & Tollner, 372 Fulton Street (at Jay Street), Brooklyn, (718) 875-5181. Old oyster house ambience, moderately priced American fare.
* Symphony Cafe, 950 Eighth Avenue (at 56th Street), (212) 397-9595). Big, airy and theatrical space with recently upgraded American fare.
* Le Comptoir, 227 East 67th Street, (212) 794-4950. Handsome brass-and-wood bistro. Standards done well.
* Remi, 145 West 53d Street, (212) 581-4242. One of the best northern Italian restaurants in town. BRYAN MILLER
 
GREENERY
 This time of year, the best and easiest places for do-it-yourself flowers are the Greenmarkets.
 I go to the one at Union Square, which is open Monday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, from 8 A.M. to 6 P.M. The earlier you go, the better, of course. But almost any time of year, you will be able to find interesting plant material, whether it be branches of pear and cherry trees to force into bloom in late winter, lilacs and mock oranges in the spring, roses and irises in June, and then, come midsummer, daisies, sunflowers, black-eyed Susans.
 The wholesale flower and plant dealers along 28th Street (and some also, along 26th and 27th Streets) between jSixth and Seventh Avenues, will often sell to individuals if they are not to busy with their regular customers, the retail florists. These people do business, though, inthe wee hours, so show up about 7 A.M., when the professionals have gone home.
 Adventurous types may want to explore the wholesale dealers at the New YOrk Terminal Market at Hunt's Point in the Bronx and at the BrooklynTerminal Market at Foster Avenue and East 87th Street. These markets are open seven days a week, 7 A.M. to 6 P.M., and some wholesalers will sell to individuals. ANNE RAVER

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hillary Richard and Peter McCabe had their wedding at the Ukrainian National Home, on Second Avenue. (Laura Schair); Maria Nguyen and Guise Chau rented the Triple 8 Palace, a Hong Kong-style room in Chinatown. (Linda Roster for The New York Times); Joanne Citterbart and Avi Haleah enjoyed a World Yacht wedding package at Pier 91 in Manhattan. (Steven Hart for The New York Times) (pg. 9)
 
Chart: "THE BOTTOM LINE: Saying 'I Do' With 100 Witnesses" compares two examples of weddings spending a lot, and a little. (pg. 9)
 
Graph: "THE DETAILS: Marrying in the City" shows the number of weddings by month in 1993. (Source: City Clerk's Office) (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (57%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS; PARTIES (SOCIAL) WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (92%); MARRIAGE (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CATERING SERVICES (71%); USED MERCHANDISE STORES (67%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



624 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
Street Theater

BYLINE: By MONIQUE P. YAZIGI 

 BODY:
INSIDE the Cort Theater, where Anna Deavere Smith has been portraying people affected by the 1992 Los Angeles riots, it is intermission. The lights come up. The theater doors open. And the audience flows out of the lobby into the night.
Immediately, the drums begin. 
 Then five guys from Harlem, dressed in T-shirts, shorts and high-priced sneakers, begin to dance and flip through the traffic as it tries to move through West 48th Street between Sixth and Seventh Avenues. The group's moves draw the theater crowd closer, many seemingly touched by this scene -- a combination of gymnastics, acrobatics and break dancing -- on a New York street.
"If you like us, just clap," a member of the group tells the crowd, "and if you don't like us just clap."
When the bucket is passed, many theatergoers give, usually about $2 or $3 apiece.
"I think this play is bringing real life to the stage, and then you walk outside and you're hit in the face again with it," said Denise Wallace, a lawyer from Miami who had dropped $20 into the bucket. "They deserve it if they're going to work that hard."
The Cort's ushers, ticket takers and even the security guards have come to call these pavement performances "the 10-minute half-time show." But, though the show may seem an impromptu distraction for theater crowds, the young men, who call themselves the New York City Float Committee, are deliberately working within the city's underground economy, constantly dodging theater managers, security guards and the police as they seek to take themselves off the streets and onto the world stage.
"They've been coming here for years," said Joan Gallagher, chief usher at the Cort. "I remember them through "Sarafina!" and "The Grapes of Wrath."
"It's a business," said Ross Eastwick, 26, one of the performers. His dancemates, musicians and fellow tumblers included Ayan Williams, 34, the group's manager and drummer; D. J. Spivey, 25; Larry Wright, 19, and Darrl Poboy, 26.
There have been many low points and a few highs. The group has had a professional choreographer, conducted auditions and even had a private audience with Michael Jackson. Six weeks ago, "Michael saw us playing in Central Park from his hotel room at the Plaza," said Mr. Spivey, who has been with the group for 10 years. "A guy from the hotel asked us to meet Michael in one of the ballrooms. We performed for him, while one of his people videotaped us.
"Michael told us he would show the tape around."
"It's true," said Mr. Jackson's manager, Sandy Gallin.
The New York Float Committee was formed 11 years ago by a group of Harlem friends that included Mr. Williams and Mr. Spivey. There are now 10 people on the dance roster; they perform all over Manhattan. Over the years they have had members ranging in age from 4 to 34, all male.
"We try to be good role models for the kids on the street," said Mr. Eastwick, a former drug addict who lives with relatives in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. "We find a lot of raw talent in the ghettos."
Seven days a week, they maintain a schedule that includes a 10 A.M. meeting at Mr. Spivey's apartment on 113th Street and Lenox Avenue -- where he lives with his wife, Dana, and four children -- to decide where and what to perform. A two-hour rehearsal at Herald Square park at 34th Street is followed by performances, starting at 1 P.M., around Broadway and Times Square, during intermissions and when the "flow comes out of the plays," Mr. Spivey said.
Right now, business is not that lucrative.
"On a very, very good day we can make up to $60 apiece," said Mr. Williams, who grew up in Harlem with the rest of the group but left to study percussion at the New England Conservatory of Music. Mr. Williams has performed on the streets of New York and Los Angeles for more than 10 years. He has also given drum lessons and done odd jobs to make ends meet. Often the group takes home only $20 each after working from 10 A.M. to midnight.
"This is the only way we can make money using our talents," he said.
The troupe can never stay in one place too long. Like other street performers, they work without city permits; none are issued for such purposes, city officials say.
Police officers can give a summons at their discretion for various offenses, from unreasonable noise to disorderly conduct, or for blocking the sidewalks, said Sergeant John Clifford, a police spokesman. A summons can mean a fine of up to $250 in court.
While performing, the Float Committee members are chased away up to 20 times a day, Mr. Williams said. The group likes to work in front of the Cort Theater because they are not chased as often. In fact, on this night, a security guard from the Shubert Organization, owners of the theater, seemed to enjoy the show.
"If they're not under the marquee and no one asks us to move them, then they can stay," he said.
Even the star of "Twilight in Los Angeles, 1992," Ms. Smith, had kind words for her half-time rivals at the Cort. "I love them," whispered Ms. Smith, who was losing her voice. Her assistant, standing nearby, said the actor had often sent money out to the group.
But the one-woman play closed last Sunday after 10 weeks, and nothing is scheduled at the Cort until September.
That night, after leaving the Cort, the group set up in front of the Winter Garden Theater on Broadway between 50th and 51st Streets, where the musical "Cats" is playing. But only moments after they started dancing in front of about 100 people, the music was abruptly stopped by a passing police officer.
"It's illegal," the officer said. "When they gather that big of a crowd, they bring out the pickpockets, and it's not safe for the pedestrians."
The five performers stood quietly, watching the people walk by them. "We could have made a lot of money," Mr. Williams said, "but we'll just try again tomorrow."

GRAPHIC: Photo: D. J. Spivey turns intermission into a pavement performance in front of the Cort Theater on West 48th Street. (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "BUSKER HEAVEN: On the Sidewalks of the Theater District"
 Here are a list of some other street performers in the theater district.
 
FROM RUSSIA WITH FUN: Alex Vosk and his four miniature poodles, Inky, Porky, Piggy and Loxy perform tricks.
WHERE: The east side of Broadway between 45th and 46th Streets.
WHEN: 5 to 10 P.M. Wendesdays jthrough Sundays.
 
SPACE AGE ART: Denis Grdovic (GER-doh-vitch), a Croatian artist also known as Penichardo, creates artworks using spray paing in just 10 seconds. All the paintings have an outer-space theme.
WHERE: The East side of Seventh Avenue, between 49th and 50th Streets.
WHEN: 9:30 P.M. to midnight, seven days a week.
 
YIMIN TAN AND HIS FRIENDS: More than 35 Chinese artists, trained in Beijing and Shanghai, sketch charcoal and chalk portraits. The sketches take 10 to 15 minutes and cost $15 for black and white, $30 for color.
WHERE: Seventh Avenue between 43d and 44th Streets every day.
WHEN: 8 p.m. to midnight, seven days a week.
 
VINCENT TAYLOR: The musician who plays the steel pan, drums that are the national instrument of Trinidad. The theme song from the movie "Love Story" is his favorite.
WHERE: Seventh Avenue between 47th and 48th Streets.
WHEN: 9 P.M. to 1 A.M., seven days a week.
 
SAX-E-1: James Butch Rooks plays jaxx, funk and disco on his saxophone. "You name it I'll play it," Mr. Rooks said.
WHERE: Seventh Avenue between 50th and 51st Streets.
WHEN: 9 P.M. to 2 A.M. Tuesdays through Fridays.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); EAST CHINA (74%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (74%); EAST CHINA (74%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (77%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; ENTERTAINMENT AND AMUSEMENTS THEATER & DRAMA (90%); RIOTS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); DANCE (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); GYMNASTICS (76%); HIP HOP CULTURE (76%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); MUSIC (61%); THEATER (58%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (50%); 

PERSON: YAZIGI, MONIQUE P MICHAEL A JACKSON (51%); MICHAEL JACKSON (51%); MICHAEL JACKSON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



625 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 2; Page 33; Column 1; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1486 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION;
Two Ways to Replace a Familiar Face

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
KEN BODE HAS A BEARD. HE also has a resume that includes a Ph.D. in politics, a decade as a national political correspondent for NBC News, nearly five years as politics editor of The New Republic, and stints as a reporter and analyst for CNN in the 1992 Presidential campaign.
But since Friday, March 11, when he sat down at the head of a slate-blue, suede-topped table to replace Paul Duke as host of "Washington Week in Review" on PBS, Mr. Bode and his colleagues have heard a lot about the beard from the fiercely loyal viewers of one of the nation's most venerable video salons. 
 "It's the damnedest thing," said Mr. Bode, who grew the beard as a lark five years ago when he left network television to head the Center for Contemporary Media at DePauw University in Greencastle, Ind. He was specifically asked to keep it when he returned to the air part time on CNN, then considered shaving it off when he took the "Washington Week" job -- until WETA, which produces the show, took a lot of expensive publicity photos of him wearing it.
Viewers have written worrying that it makes him look old, a computer hacker sent E-mail calling it "very distinguished," and one regular panelist on the program bumped into a 77-year-old woman in an airport who complained, ever so gently, that she was a bit deaf and facial hair made it harder for her to read lips.
The fuss over Mr. Bode's beard is just one sign of how closely fans have scrutinized the subtle changes in the longest-running program on PBS, which the sonorous, patrician and clean-shaven Mr. Duke headed for 20 of its 27 years on the air. It built a national audience of four million viewers with its four rotating panelists' sober-sided dissections of the capital's weekly irrationalities. It also spawned a gaggle of louder imitators who quickly shed its civility for what Mr. Duke dismisses as "ideological food fights."
When Mr. Duke decided to retire at 67, Mr. Bode, 55, beat out a host of contenders, including some of the program's longtime panelists, as the sort of erudite, experienced yet common-sensical conversationalist who could carry the program into the millennium.
"There's no question that this was an opportunity for us to look at the program pretty hard and decide what we thought was at the heart of it and how to reinvigorate it," said David McGowan, WETA's senior vice president for news and public affairs. "The most important thing here is reporting, and there's a natural tension in the program between the need for beat reporters on particular stories, and retaining that sense of family with certain regular reporters that viewers have come to rely on."
Mr. Bode's mission has been twofold: to maintain the tradition of giving "reporters an opportunity to empty their notebooks and give perspective" on the week's top stories, while also drawing younger viewers by using occasional graphics, live remote hookups, news footage -- and at least one elliptical but racy reference to the President.
Mr. Bode began with a bang, devoting all four segments of his first show to the Whitewater affair, a topic Mr. Duke had largely eschewed as overblown. Mr. Bode and the show's producers conceived the program as an effort to put the issue in perspective by parsing out its origins. "Everybody thought it was a very strong show," he said, but he failed to make it clear that such departures would not be routine.
"The viewers worried about that," he said. "The mail was very polite: 'Mr. Bode, we like you on the program, but we certainly hope that you don't do this every week.' "
He hasn't, but he has made changes, most recently by welcoming a visitor from outside the regular circle of 15 panelists: Bob Woodward of The Washington Post, who came to discuss "The Agenda," his new tell-all book on the battles over President Clinton's economic policies last year. That show ended with Mr. Bode quoting a British newspaper's waspish comment that Mr. Clinton's visit to Oxford would give the world a chance to "focus on one of the President's less well-publicized organs: his brain."
It was Mr. Duke, now living in London for a yearlong retreat, who called to tell Mr. Bode about the clipping that afternoon, but longtime panelists said Mr. Duke would never have repeated it on the air. Indeed, the program's regulars say Mr. Bode has made a point of carrying on the Duke mission without trying to imitate Mr. Duke.
"I think it's human and real and probably very good that Bode isn't like Paul Duke," said Charles McDowell of The Richmond Times-Dispatch, one of the program's panelists for almost two decades. "Paul had an unusual, unusual sort of cool image. He asked the questions; he stayed out of it; he wasn't this animated, involved personality. I think Ken is more animated, more involved in the discussion -- more willing to let it go to a discussion, and override the Q. and A. a little bit.
"I think a lot of people are very relieved at that, as a matter of fact."
A newer panelist, Michel McQueen of ABC News, went so far as to hold a referendum on the beard at a recent luncheon of the National Woman's Democratic Club (it lost overwhelmingly, though she personally thinks "it's very now").
"It's like having your older brother go away to college, and the middle one taking over," Ms. McQueen said of the transition from Mr. Duke, who segued from segment to segment with unabashed (and sometimes labored) wordplay. Now, she said, panelists are almost expected to jump in -- politely -- at any time. "It's enjoyable," she continued. "You have to stay on your toes. You can't zone out during somebody else's segment, just because you think you have some great point you want to make in yours."
Mr. Bode, a gently bearish man who smiles easily and speaks in sound bursts, not bites, has a way with a phrase. (On one early show, he described a Supreme Court vacancy as constituting "one-ninth of one-third of the Government.")
THE BRINGS NOT ONLY the experience of years covering national politics but a childhood in Middle America -- Hawarden, Iowa, population 2,500, where his father owned first a small dairy and then a dry-cleaning business. He wound up at the University of South Dakota, then earned advanced degrees at the University of North Carolina, where he was drawn to the civil rights movement of the early 1960's.
Teaching assignments followed at Michigan State and the State University of New York, Binghamton, along with fellowships at Princeton and Yale. At the 1968 Democratic National Convention, he was floor director for the short-lived Presidential bid of George McGovern, whom he had known from South Dakota. In the mid-70's he found himself covering politics for The New Republic. One appearance on a political special organized by some public television stations led to a test at NBC and, eventually, to 10 years that included "Bode's Journal," his weekly political report for the "Today" show.
He loved that job but gave it up because "I was raising my kids from 100 airports a year," said Mr. Bode who, with his wife, Margo, a high school social-studies teacher, has two daughters, Matilda, 16, and Josephine, 11. "I really had no control."
Today he keeps his perspective by spending better than half of each week overseeing the media center and teaching at DePauw, a private liberal-arts institution. He checks in daily by phone with the "Washington Week" producer, Sue Ducat, reads the news wires and flies to Washington on Thursday mornings in time for each week's live broadcast at 8 P.M. Friday at WETA's studios in suburban Shirlington, Va. (In summer, he travels from the Delaware shore, where his family has an old farmhouse.
In Greencastle, he says, he is kept honest by his buddies in a daily cribbage game, held in an auto-repair garage that he discovered when he arrived in town and his limping Volvo needed a fix. "I can't tell you how much I appreciate it," he said. "I don't think there's a year of college at that table," he added, but there is a lot of life and concern about national problems. "They're all potential Perot voters."
Because Mr. Bode believes that "a lot of Washington stories can best be told from outside Washington," he intends to use remote hookups with correspondents in other cities more often. To that end, there is at least one more change in the works: a new set this fall, in part to get a table that will not look empty if there are not four panelists.
Mr. McDowell, whose genial Virginia drawl often serves as the program's voice of experience, said the basic mission hasn't changed.
"I think 'Washington Week' will continue to be the old reliable, trying to be a little more contemporary all the time, but not getting into open editorializing and loudmouthing and showboating," he said. "But we haven't been all that stuffy, either. There are times when I'm just gassing along like some Southerner at a hardware store."

CORRECTION-DATE: July 3, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Ken Bode, the new moderator of the PBS program "Washington Week in Review," misstated the age of his younger daughter, Josephine. She is 14, not 11.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Margaret Hubbard applies Ken Bode's makeup. Behind them, from left, are Gwen Ifill of The New York Times, Bob Woodward of The Washington Post, both program guests, and David McGowan of PBS. (Don Preisler for The New York Times)(pg. 33); Paul Duke, the program's former host -- Sonorous and patrician. (Joan Marcus/PBS)(pg. 36)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: WASHINGTON WEEK IN REVIEW (TV PROGRAM)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (93%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (89%); POLITICS (89%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (75%); COMPUTER CRIME (65%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; DUKE, PAUL; BODE, KEN ANN LIVERMORE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



626 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 17; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 974 words

HEADLINE: THEATER;
For the Season Past, Awards Imagined and Real

BYLINE: By ALVIN KLEIN 

 BODY:
WHAT to make of a theater season that promised discovery and adventure but delivered retreads and tours? Such is the disappointment reflected in the Connecticut Critics Circle awards for the 1993-94 season that are being presented tomorrow night at 8 at the Norwalk Community-Technical College.
Of awards in 10 categories for achievements in the season just ended (covering the year from June 1 to May 31), a shared prize for set design is the only one being given to home-grown productions at the Yale Repertory and Long Wharf Theater in New Haven. 
 For other awards, reviewers covering four high-visibility regional theaters (including Hartford Stage Company and Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam) and several enterprising small professional companies, chose a national tour and its star: Nigel Hawthorne and "The Madness of George III." Also among those chosen were two summer stock productions, the leads in Connecticut's umpteenth revival of "Me and My Girl" and the star of a solo show fresh from a Broadway run, Lynn Redgrave. "Madness," selected as outstanding production of a play, arrived from the Royal National Theater of Britain for its American premiere in Stamford. Bookings in Brooklyn, Boston and Baltimore followed. The outstanding musical production "Phantom" was imported from Long Island and exported to Florida.
What's the story? Is the Connecticut theater in a state of crisis or transition? Is the state a nurturing place for theater or just another road stopover, not to mention a recycler of popular musicals? Is the signature regional theater production, supposedly the American theater's lifeline, in decline? Is the voice of Yale Rep, Long Wharf, Goodspeed and Hartford Stage taking featured billing under bookings, packages and generic reruns? Does the critics' group need to redefine categories and ground rules?
For sure, several new Connecticut-based productions were bypassed by the critical consensus, notably "Keely and Du" (the season's most harrowing work) and "Bailey's Cafe," (the most sumptuous adaptation of a novel) both at Hartford Stage as well as "The America Play" (the most stimulating enigma nobody figured out) at Yale Rep and finally "The Swan" (the best anthropomorphic play in decades) produced by Theater Works in Hartford. Still, the season was constrained by an air of non-event, a sure cause for critical malcontent.
Perhaps accolades are in order for categories not yet considered -- like Outstanding Host. This could go to Arvin Brown for holding open house at the Long Wharf for Broadway producers ("The Times"), more Broadway producers ("Broken Glass"), the Abbey Theater of Dublin ("The Faith Healer"), and for the Alliance Theater of Atlanta and the Indiana Rep of Indianapolis in co-production ("Flyin' West").
Anna Deavere Smith in an easy-to-pick-up production of a mono-docudrama also dropped by Long Wharf; so did the National Theater of the Deaf of Chester in "Under Milkwood." With all that, there was room for two actual Long Wharf productions: "Sight Unseen" and "Misalliance."
While there may be no awards for the following categories, they rate as season high points.
Most Deserved and Encouraging News in a Bleak World: The $900,000 grant to the Downtown Cabaret Theater of Bridgeport by the Connecticut Department of Economic Development for major capital renovation and improvement.
Most Affirmative Digression: The Hartman-Tenney Musicals in Workshop series at the Stamford Theater of the Arts produces "The New Yorkers" by Cole Porter.
Most Crushing Let-Down: Christopher Plummer cancels a one-night, one-man show at Stamford Center for the Arts's Palace Theater.
Runner-Up Letdown: Theatre de la Jeune Lune's "Green Bird," at Yale Rep, after "Children of Paradise," the previous year's singular event.
Third Place Letdown: A misguided Marivaux ("False Admissions") at Hartford Stage.
Most Tedious Unanswered Question: Who is Jane Martin? This season it was twice again speculated upon. ("Keely and Du" in Hartford and "Criminal Hearts" at Stamford Theater Works).
More Interesting Unanswered Question: Is Jane Martin waiting for a Pulitzer Prize to own up? ("Keely and Du" was the Pulitzer committee's third choice this year.)
Most Unconditional Display of Loyalty by a Theater to a Playwright: Theater Works in Hartford to Lee Blessing.
Unsolicited Advice to Theater Works: Get over it.
The real winners of the Connecticut Critics Awards follow.
Outstanding production of a play: "The Madness of George III" at Rich Forum in Stamford.
Outstanding production of a musical: "Phantom" at Candlewood Playhouse in New Fairfield.
Outstanding female performance in a play: Lynn Redgrave "Shakespeare for My Father" at Rich Forum.
Outstanding male performance in a play: Nigel Hawthorne "The Madness of George III" Rich Forum.
Outstanding male and female in a musical: Tracey Ann Moore and BK Kennelly "Me and My Girl" Downtown Cabaret in Bridgeport.
Outstanding direction of a play: A tie between Kenny Leon for "Flyin' West" at Long Wharf and Nicholas Hytner for "Madness of George III" at Rich Forum.
Outstanding direction of a musical: Dom Ruggiero for "Phantom" at Candlewood.
Outstanding choreography: Sean Thomas Morrissey "West Side Story" at Candlewood.
Outstanding technical achievement: Myung Hee Cho for set design of "The School for Wives" at Yale Rep and Michael H. Yeargan for set design of "Misalliance" at Long Wharf.
The following special awards are also being presented.
Outstanding playwright: Arthur Miller for his body of work.
Tom Killen award for outstanding contribution to Connecticut Theater: Richard and Susan Hallinan of Downtown Cabaret in Bridgeport.
Special award to Kay McGrath, formerly of Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, dean of Connecticut theater press representatives.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Connecticut critics found both the production of "The Madness of George III" and the performance of its star, Nigel Hawthorne, outstanding. (Stamford Center for the Arts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: HARTFORD STAGE CO (91%); THEATER WORKS (59%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (79%); INDIANA, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS THEATER (93%); BRITISH MONARCHS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (77%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); 

PERSON: KLEIN, ALVIN EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (56%); EDDIE GEORGE (56%); LYNN REDGRAVE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



627 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Superstores Fueling Quest for Books

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

DATELINE: EASTCHESTER

 BODY:
THE sea change taking place in bookselling across the country was happening here, too, at Encore Books last week, as Lisa Singer hurried to the checkout counter with an armload of children's books and Louis Perri tarried in the aisles of the new fiction section.
Mrs. Singer, a homemaker from New Rochelle who was buying books for her daughter, said she was becoming a regular at the so-called superstore, lured by the vast selection of titles and the steep discounts on most books. 
 Mr. Perri, who owns a limousine service in Scarsdale, also was no stranger to the store. Although pleased with the discounts -- 20 percent on most hardcovers and 30 percent on best sellers -- he said he was equally drawn to the soothing atmosphere and the feeling that here, at least, lost among the shelves, he could unwind from the cares of the day.
Similar scenes were happening at Borders Books and Music in White Plains and at Barnes & Noble stores in Hartsdale, Yonkers and White Plains. While booksellers were discovering that bigger was better in terms of end-of-year revenues, book buyers were scooping up specials, unashamedly forsaking the independent retailers of their neighborhoods.
"I love a small bookstore," Mrs. Singer said, "but I love the discounts even more."
Ilse Ginsberg, an art teacher from Scarsdale, said she was willing to endure "the din of children and the smell of coffee" for the right price.
 
Crazy About Discounts
 "It's not that I don't like children, or coffee, but I'm not crazy about them in bookstores," she said. "I am crazy about the discounts, though."
While superstores have muscled into the increasingly profitable retail book market across the country, they have been Johnny-come-lately's to Westchester.
They began making inroads in Connecticut by the late 1980's, but it was not until 1992 that Barnes & Noble, for one, opened its first superstore in the county in White Plains.
Encore Books opened here in 1992 and expanded a year later, going from a stock of 40,000 titles to 75,000. Borders opened in December at the new Westchester Pavilion mall in White Plains, carrying 130,000 book titles, along with 50,000 music titles and laser disks and videos.
The superstores were initially deterred by the high cost of real estate in the county as were "big box" chain discounters like Tops Appliance City in Hawthorne and Bradlees department store in Yonkers.
"But real estate prices finally came down," said Noreen L. Preston, an economist with the County Office of Economic Development, explaining that the county was now able to compete with areas like Fairfield County and Bergen and Passaic Counties in New Jersey. "What we are seeing are retail outlets, which had been developing elsewhere, now coming here."
Ms. Preston said the superstores had become "drawing cards for malls and other small retail clusters and definitely a plus for business in the county."
Like other merchants, Tom Simon, Encore's general manager, said Westchester was proving to be a fruitful market, and he described the chain's typical customer as "having a high income and education level, along with a high amount of discretionary income -- terrific ingredients for a bookstore."
 
Concerts and Poetry Readings
 Discounters though they may be, the new breed of superstore has eschewed no-frills marketing tactics. Most superstores have soft carpeting underfoot, rich wood-grained cabinets and tables, plump sofas and tucked-away reading sections. Borders has a carpeted amphitheater for children along with a large-screen television that shows movies.
Offering more than just books, Encore has a 1,000-square-foot cafe, which sells coffee, tea, sandwiches and soup. At Borders' Expresso Bar, double cappuccino and Pecan Meltaway cookies are on the menu.
The cafes also provide the backdrop for afternoon and evening miniconcerts and poetry readings. Borders this month was the host of a Voices of D-Day book signing, the Java Jive! folk-rock band, David the Magician, a fiction-writing workshop and a Transcendentalist poets' night.
Encore, which has a superstore in Princeton, N.J., and another in Harrisburg, Pa., holds poetry readings and book signings two and three times a month and presents live music at the store every Friday and Saturday night, catering to what Mr. Simon called "a varied crowd -- singles, couples, groups of all ages."
 
Record Sales Reported
 Barnes & Noble's chief financial officer, Irene R. Miller, said the national chain is seeking to establish its superstores as "quasi community centers," places where children's pajama storytime parties, singles nights, poetry readings and other events are held.
The superstore retailing brew has resulted in record sales. Barnes & Noble, for example, said 1993 was the best year in the history of the company, with $250 million in new revenues. Borders reported that sales in stores that were open for more than a year were up 18 percent during the first quarter of 1994 from the same period the year before. Borders, a wholly owned subsidiary of Kmart with 18 superstores in 1992, has 55 superstores now and expects to close the year with 72, said Dan Conetta, vice president for marketing.
In general, the bookselling industry is experiencing a surge, with a recent survey by the United States Commerce Department showing that sales in bookstores nationwide increased at a faster rate than total retail sales. In all, last year, bookstore sales reached nearly $8 billion, the study revealed.
Borders, typical of the superstores, offers a large selection of books, knowledgeable service and a comfortable shopping environment, Mr. Conetta said. He added that customers are allowed to browse unimpeded.
 
Mimicking the Independents
 "Even if a customer is lying on the floor reading, assuming he is not imposing a safety hazard, our booksellers are instructed to leave him be," Mr. Conetta said. "It's not unusual to see people propped up in all kinds of positions throughout our stores."
Avin Mark Domnitz, president of the Tarrytown-based American Booksellers Associations, a trade organization representing 8,000 members and 4,500 bookstores, said the new superstores were "mimicking the small, independent bookstore, only doing it bigger and better."
But Mr. Domnitz also said that the new breed of bookstores was "putting a lot of pressure on the marketplace" -- and in some places usurping markets previously controlled by the independents.
At Good Yarns in Hastings-on-Hudson, the co-owner, Sooky Kyle, said the 20-year-old neighborhood bookstore was trying hard to fight back.
"We definitely have been touched by the superstores and the economic hard times, and I don't blame people for trying to save money," she said, "but it has been hard for us."
Good Yarns has been offering its customers an incentive card, which entitles them to a $20 gift certificate after $200 in purchases. That combined with 20 percent off best sellers is equivalent to a 30 percent discount, Ms. Kyle said.
 
Lawsuit Filed
 "But can we afford these discounts?" she asked. "Publishers prefer to deal with the big guys, to give them the bigger discount. We are trying to match discounts without the same favors, and that's tough."
Concerned with such trends, the Booksellers Association filed a lawsuit in May in Federal District Court in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania against five publishers -- St. Martin's Press, Penguin U.S.A., Houghton Mifflin, Routledge Hill Press and Hugh Lauster Levin Associates -- charging that they discriminated against independent booksellers by offering special discounts to some chain stores.
While independents like Good Yarns struggle to survive and the superstore chains bring in profits, all the players in the bid for readers' dollars agree that interest in reading continues to grow. It is a trend, they say, that flies in the face of other studies indicating a shift in reading habits. Some data suggest that people rely more on bits and pieces of visual and aural information, like that provided by television and computer information services, rather than the written word.
 
Looking Inward
 "But our studies show that reading is up," Mr. Domnitz said. "They are reading everything -- trends, ideas, how-to's. They are trying to keep up with the world."
Mr. Simon at Encore Books noted an increased interest in philosophy, science and religion. "Readers are looking inward at the meaning of their existence," he said. "And they want answers."
Ms. Miller, the chief financial officer for Barnes & Noble, described books as an expression of a life style:
"People want certain books in their homes," she said. "They become part of the furnishings, even if they aren't always read from cover to cover. They are an entertainment alternative."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Saturday night at Encore Books in Eastchester: Mike Teator demonstrating painting, Fur Dixon singing in the espresso bar and toddlers in the children's section.(Photographs by Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGP (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (92%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARNES & NOBLE; ENCORE BOOKS BORDERS GROUP INC (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARNES & NOBLE; ENCORE BOOKS

GEOGRAPHIC: WHITE PLAINS (NY); WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOK TRADE; DISCOUNT SELLING BOOKSTORES (93%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (76%); LITERATURE (73%); MUSIC STORES (71%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (55%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA LISA SINGER (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



628 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 26, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1302 words

HEADLINE: A Gay World, Vibrant and Forgotten

BYLINE: By George Chauncey; George Chauncey teaches American history at the University of Chicago and is author of "Gay New York."

 BODY:
It would have been unthinkable 25 years ago for thousands of openly gay fans to cheer openly gay athletes at Yankee Stadium, for openly gay artists to perform to the acclaim of openly gay audiences at Carnegie Hall, or for the mainstream media to provide extensive and sympathetic coverage of it all. Today's march and the Gay Games and Cultural Festival are testimony to the legacy of the Stonewall rebellion of June 28, 1969 -- when a police assault on a Greenwich Village gay bar turned a small civil rights campaign into a mass liberation movement.
But the enshrinement of Stonewall as the genesis of gay culture threatens to deny the richness and resiliency of gay and lesbian life before the late 60's and to obscure the long history of gay resistance that made the gay-rights movement possible. 
 Pre-Stonewall lesbians and gay men are often held up as passive victims of social hatred who lived solitary lives (in the "closet") that kept them vulnerable to anti-gay ideology. Many gay people blame previous generations for not having had the courage to come out of the closet. Or they condescendingly imagine that their predecessors internalized society's hatred of homosexuality and became self-loathing.
But the systematic suppression of the gay community was not due to some age-old, unchanging social antipathy, nor was it a sign of passivity and acquiescence by gay people. Anti-gay forces created the closet in response to the openness and assertiveness of gay men and lesbians in the early 20th century.
Beginning in the 1890's, an extensive gay world took shape in the streets, cafeterias, saloons and apartments of New York City, and gay people played an integral role in the social life of many neighborhoods. Openly gay men drank with sailors and other working men at waterfront dives and entertained them at Bowery saloons; well-known gay people casually mixed with other patrons at Harlem's basement cabarets; lesbians ran speakeasies where Greenwich Village bohemians -- straight and gay -- gathered to read their verse.
These men and women, who saw themselves as part of a visible, largely working-class gay world, forged a culture with its own language, customs, folk histories, heroes and heroines. In the 1920's and early 30's, gay impresarios organized drag balls attracting thousands of gay dancers and straight spectators. Gay writers, actors and musicians produced a distinctive gay literature and performance style. This cultural outpouring was so popular by the late 20's that gay performers moved from the margins of the city and briefly became the darlings of Broadway.
This flourishing gay world has been forgotten. It was wiped into historical oblivion by a fierce backlash in the 30's -- part of a wider Depression-era condemnation of the cultural experimentation of the 20's, which many blamed for the economic collapse. With millions of male breadwinners losing their jobs, people were fearful of any additional threats to traditional family hierarchies.
In New York, laws were enacted prohibiting homosexuals from gathering in any state-licensed public place. Bars, restaurants and cabarets were threatened with loss of their liquor licenses if they employed homosexuals, allowed them to gather on the premises or served them drinks -- and the State Liquor Authority closed hundreds of establishments for tolerating a gay presence. This continued for decades: nearly every gay bar in the city was closed in the winter of 1959-60 in response to an anti-gay campaign by the newspaper columnist Lee Mortimer, and again in 1964 in a pre-World's Fair "cleanup."
The public discussion of gay issues was also censored. In the early 30's, after a generation of films had dealt with gay images, the new Hollywood production code prohibited gay characters and even talk of homosexuality in films. In the theater, the backlash had started even before the Depression: after the appearance of a lesbian drama on Broadway and Mae West's threat to stage a farce about transvestites called "The Drag" in 1927, a state law was passed prohibiting the representation or discussion of homosexuality on the stage.
In the 30's, the New York City police, using a 1923 state law that made it a criminal act for one man to invite another to have sex, began sending good-looking plainclothes officers into gay bars to strike up conversations with men, lead them on and arrest them if the victims suggested going home. (Between 1923 and 1967, when gay activists persuaded Mayor John V. Lindsay to end most entrapment, more than 50,000 men had been arrested on this charge.)
Anti-gay policing around the country intensified in the 40's and especially the 50's, when Senator Joseph McCarthy claimed that homosexuals in the State Department threatened national security. Thousands of gay Federal employees were dismissed. Equally without substance, police departments and newspapers around the country began to demonize homosexuals as child molesters; arrest rates increased dramatically.
The degree to which gay men had to fear arrest -- and the subsequent exposure of their homosexuality to their families and employers -- is almost impossible to understand today. Although New York's gay world grew in the post-war years, gay life became less visible and gay meeting places more segregated and carefully hidden from the straight public. The state built the closet in the 30's, and the isolation of homosexuals made it easier for them to be demonized.
Still, some gay people fought for their rights. In the 1930's, gay bars challenged the prohibitions against them in the courts (unsuccessfully), and in the 1950's a handful of courageous souls organized political groups, such as the Mattachine Society and the Daughters of Bilitis, to advocate the homosexual cause. Although most did not speak out so openly, taking this as evidence that they accepted the laws against them misinterprets silence as acquiescence. It construes resistance in the narrowest of terms -- as only the organization of formal political groups or protests.
Threatened with police raids, harassment and the loss of their jobs, families and reputations, most people hid their participation in gay life from their straight associates. But this did not necessarily keep them hidden from one other. They developed a sophisticated system of subcultural codes of dress, speech and style that enabled them to recognize one another and to carry on covert conversations. "Gay" itself was such a word until the 60's, when its homosexual connotations began to be known to nongay New Yorkers.
 The tactics gay people devised for communicating, claiming space and affirming their self-worth did not directly challenge anti-gay repression in the way the post-Stonewall movement would, but they allowed many gay people to form a supportive community despite the larger society's injunction against their doing so. This enabled many lesbians and gay men to build happy, self-confident, loving lives.
That the openness of gay life in the early 20th century was brought to an end after a few decades, and that the memory of it was systematically suppressed, reminds us that the growth of tolerance in recent years cannot be taken for granted. Then as now, increased gay visibility produced a powerful reaction.
But the relative tolerance of homosexuality in the early 20th century also shows that America has not been monolithically and inevitably homophobic, and that social conventions of sexuality are no more natural or timeless than those of race or gender. Attacks on gay men and lesbians have often resulted from broader anxieties in American culture as much as from fears about homosexuality itself. Above all, the last century shows us that attitudes toward gay people can change -- and can be changed.

GRAPHIC: Drawing: Bored Male: "I thnk I'll call Percy and we'll make a party of it." (From Broadway Brevities, June 6, 1932)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOMOSEXUALITY GAYS & LESBIANS (96%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); MEN (76%); DANCERS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); FESTIVALS (72%); CIVIL RIGHTS (70%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (63%); WRITERS (60%); MUSIC (60%); 

PERSON: CHAUNCEY, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 1994



629 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Can Low S.A.T. Scores Lead to High Grades?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I am not in a position to contest Donald Kennedy's assertion in "What Grade Inflation?" (Op-Ed, June 13) that "Stanford undergraduates are significantly brighter and better prepared than their 1977 counterparts." However, in light of the decision by the College Board to adjust upward the mean Scholastic Assessment Test score (front page, June 11), it would be difficult to deny that systemwide, today's undergraduates are on average less prepared than students of a generation ago in their verbal and mathematical skills -- two indispensable ingredients for success in college and later in the fiercely competitive global economy.
Therefore, assuming average S.A.T. scores have the same predictive power today as they had a generation ago and that academic standards are the same as then, if grade inflation is not endemic in United States higher education, average grades in the 1990's should have fallen. This is certainly not the case. 
 As for the causes of grade inflation, unfortunately, there are many guilty parties.
 
IRA SOHN
Professor of Finance
Montclair State College
Upper Montclair, N.J. June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY SA T CEREALES ASTIGI (93%); SA T LOS GONZALEZ (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (58%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (91%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (58%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADING OF STUDENTS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); GRADE INFLATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (71%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, DONALD; SOHN, IRA (PROF) DONALD KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



630 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1470 words

HEADLINE: Space Station Faces Danger From Flotsam

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. BROAD 

 BODY:
Dead satellites, shattered rocket stages and thousands of other pieces of man-made space junk speeding around Earth could destroy a planned international space station, and engineers are struggling to reduce the danger.
NASA estimates the chance that debris could smash through the shield of the space station, an orbital outpost for the world's astronauts, at 1 in 5 during its construction and expected 10-year life. That probability means that if there were five such stations, experts would expect one to be hit. 
 While the station is to have redundant gear to maximize safety and interior hatches to let astronauts seal themselves off from shattered areas that lose air, the overall risk of a catastrophe that would result in death or destruction of the craft is still estimated at roughly 1 chance in 10 over the same time.
Officials of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration say they are confident that the risk of penetration can be reduced, perhaps to 1 chance in 10, making the risk of catastrophe about 1 chance in 20. Although the design already calls for much shielding, more may be added, they say, even while conceding that such a remedy adds cost and weight to an already heavily laden project.
"We'll do whatever is necessary to get adequate safety," the space agency's Administrator, Daniel S. Goldin, said in an interview. "If we need more shielding, we'll put more up."
But Mr. Goldin also said danger and death were inevitable in space exploration.
"We'll never be able to guarantee total safety," he said. "We could have loss of life with the shuttle, and the station as well. If you want to guarantee no loss of life, it's better not to go into space."
Still, a station designer, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said the bureaucracy was playing down the problem and courting disaster.
"The traditional design philosophy says the mission catastrophic risk should not exceed a few percent," the designer said. "Now, they've got it in the range of 10 percent. That violates due diligence. If you're working in an uncertain environment, your bias should be on the side of safety."
Bigger than a football field at 361 feet in length and 290 feet in width, the station would have a six-member international crew to study Earth, the heavens and human reactions to weightlessness in preparation for lengthy voyages to Mars and beyond.
 
Decade of Use
 The United States, Europe, Japan and Canada are longtime partners in the project, and Russia joined recently. The outpost would cost American taxpayers $43 billion, including $11 billion already spent on design studies. Eighty-five launchings of gear and people will be needed to assemble and outfit the station. Assembly flights are scheduled to begin in late 1997 and end in 2002, after which the completed outpost is to be used for a decade or more.
The recent addition of the Russians to the plan is an important foreign-policy initiative of the Clinton Administration. It is intended to symbolize a new era of East-West accord and to engage Moscow in constructive space work in return for ending practices that upset Washington, like exporting advanced rocket gear to developing countries.
 
Rising Tide of Junk
 The plan faces a potentially close vote on the House floor this week. Some members fear that Russia's economic woes may jeopardize the project, while others see Russian participation as a way to help reduce the odds of political upheaval in Russia.
The tide of junk in orbit near Earth is rising at a rate of 2 percent to 5 percent a year, experts say.
The American military has found in orbit about 7,000 objects ranging from the size of a school bus to the size of a baseball, and it tracks all of them from the ground with radar. Smaller objects cannot easily be tracked. Experts estimate that circling Earth are perhaps 150,000 objects that could penetrate the space station. Because of the enormous speeds of everything in orbit, a tiny flake of metal can pack the punch of an exploding hand grenade.
In general, the collision risks for orbiting stations are high because of their large size and long stay in space. The shuttles are much smaller, going up for days instead of years, but they have nonetheless been moved on four occasions to dodge debris and have been hit by some objects that dug tiny craters.
For any single shuttle flight, NASA estimates the overall risk of catastrophic failure at about 1 in 78 missions. In contrast, the Air Transport Association estimates that a single airline flight has 1 chance in 2 million of ending in fatalities.
The space station program, begun by President Ronald Reagan in 1984, has tended to play down the threat from debris, partly because costs would rise if heavy shielding was chosen as the remedy. In 1991 NASA adopted an updated estimate of the threat, and in 1992 it adopted a plan for heftier shielding after the General Accounting Office, the investigative arm of Congress, criticized the agency for ignoring the problem.
The risk of penetration for that station over its lifetime was to be 10 percent, or 1 chance in 10, then.
Today, design changes to accommodate the Russians have added a new degree of danger. For one thing, the areas for astronauts in the new station are about 40 percent larger than in the old plan, making crew quarters a bigger target for whirling debris.
The new outpost is also to fly in more of a north-south orbit, making it more prone to hit debris head on, since most debris at the station's altitude of 250 miles is in a north-south orbit. Engineers say the move increased the most probable speed of impact from 6.2 miles a second to 7.5 miles a second.
In March, NASA's Aerospace Safety Advisory Panel, an independent group of aerospace experts, urged the agency to get a better grip on the possibility of the station's being destroyed by space junk and the practicality of moving it around to dodge larger pieces of debris.
It also said detailed studies should be done to find out what types of injuries astronauts might suffer and how fast a crew could evacuate the station in an emergency, fleeing in a pair of crew-rescue vehicles.
"It's hairy," Seymour C. Himmel, a panel member and retired NASA engineer, said in an interview. "They're worried about it and working on it. But it comes down to good judgment and risk management. There ain't nothing in space that's going to be perfect."
 
Shielding Astronauts
 William M. Shepherd, deputy manager for the station program at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, said each module for astronauts was getting about 3,000 pounds of added shielding to help protect it from the greater velocity of orbiting junk. The shielding is a fabric of woven alumina and glass backed by layers of Kevlar, the material used in bullet-proof vests.
Mr. Shepherd said such safeguards would allow the American side of the station over its lifetime to achieve a risk of penetration of only 10 percent, the original goal. But, he said, the addition of the Russians increases the risk to 19 percent.
The question the program is now struggling with, Mr. Shepherd said, is whether to try to bring the overall level of protection back to 10 percent, which would require still more shielding.
"Part of the debate is whether that would make the station itself more survivable," he said. "If you're standing on a large ship and take an impact from a missile or torpedo, you may be in better shape than if you were on a small ship. That's the kind of thing we're thinking about. There are trade-offs."
NASA officials say they are eagerly awaiting a study by the National Academy of Sciences, due later this year, on the dimensions of the threat from debris. Only then, and after further study of crew safety issues, will the detailed design of the space station be firmed up.
Mr. Goldin, NASA's Administrator, questioned the reliability of the current risk estimates, saying the empirical data were too sketchy. "People make all their projections based on the absence of evidence," he said. "We're working to get better information."
 
'Overly Conservative'
 He also noted that Russia's Mir station, which has been in orbit for eight years, had apparently suffered no penetrations from space junk. "They think we're overly conservative," he said of the Russians.
Mr. Goldin said that when a space shuttle rendezvoused in the near future with the Mir station he would want a camera on the shuttle's robot arm to examine every inch of Mir for dents.
"We're not going to do anything irresponsible," he said of the plans for the new station. "We're not going to launch anything that has an unacceptable risk. But we also can't afford to use space as a dumping ground. We need an international agreement for controlling the contamination of space."

GRAPHIC: Diagram (pg. A14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (76%); EUROPE (66%); CANADA (51%); 

STATE: MARS (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (76%); EUROPE (66%); CANADA (51%); MARS (79%); 

SUBJECT: SPACE; SPACE STATIONS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; DESIGN SPACE EXPLORATION (92%); SPACE STATIONS (92%); SPACECRAFT (91%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (91%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (90%); SPACE INDUSTRY (89%); AEROSPACE REGULATION & POLICY (78%); INTERVIEWS (70%); 

PERSON: BROAD, WILLIAM J MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



631 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 166 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE

 BODY:

Mussolini, in His Words
Excerpts of diaries believed to be Mussolini's were published in London. A scholar said he probably wrote them well after the events described, to justify earlier actions. Page A6.
 
Bill Bradley Off the Bench
 For a while, the Senator from New Jersey seemed to be sitting out the health-care debate. Then, suddenly and in a surprising way, he stepped into the discussion. Page B1.
 
Currency Turmoil and the Fed
 Federal Reserve officials, who must decide whether to raise interest rates to stop the dollar's slide, see a far more complex picture. Page D1.
 
The Emperor's Silent Signals
 Behind the serenity of Emperor Akihito's American tour lie subtle messages about the imperial household and U.S.-Japan relations. Page A10.
 
 
Romania Defeats U.S.
Romania defeated the United States, 1-0, in the World Cup yesterday in Pasadena, Calif. It was the Americans' first loss and complicated their chances of advancing. SportsMonday, page C1.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); US DOLLAR (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); CURRENCIES (69%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

PERSON: TSUGUNOMIYA 'EMPEROR AKIHITO' AKIHITO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



632 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1001 words

HEADLINE: Currency Turmoil Weighing on U.S. and Japan;
Dollar Declines To a Record Low Against the Yen

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Monday June 27

 BODY:
The dollar plunged to a record low against the yen in Tokyo trading this morning following the failure of 17 central banks to halt the dollar's slide on Friday, and the resignation of Japanese Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata the next day.
Shortly before noon, the dollar was quoted as low as 99.50 yen, below the 99.90 level that had been reached in New York last Tuesday. This was the lowest level since the modern currency trading system began after World War II. Later in the day the dollar had recovered a bit, to 99.95 yen. 
 The fall of the dollar today was viewed is a repudiation of the multibillion-dollar rescue effort mounted Friday by the Federal Reserve Board and other central banks. It is likely to force Washington to take even more aggressive steps, analysts said. Further intervention might be needed today, and the pressure for the Fed to raise interest rates is mounting.
 
 
Double Blow
 In Japan, the rise of the yen could extinguish the economic recovery that was just starting to grow. It only adds to the sense of turmoil here caused by Saturday's resignation of Prime Minister Hata, which could bring about a period of policy paralysis.
Indeed, the yen's rise and the political uncertainty dealt a double blow to the Tokyo stock market today. The Nikkei average of 225 selected stocks plunged 465.79 points, or 2.24 percent, to 20,300.96.
"This is a psychological shock," Eijiro Hata, the Trade Minister in what is now a lame-duck Cabinet, said today. Hirohisa Fujii, the Finance Minister, pledged to take "tenacious" measures in line with other nations.
 
 
Market Intervention
 But there seemed little to be done except more market intervention and, perhaps, having the Bank of Japan lower interest rates, which would make yen-denominated investments less attractive.
The Bank of Japan was reported to be intervening in the market today to prop up the dollar, but some traders said it was not being very aggressive. "It has been quite weak," said Yasuhisa Morikuni, corporate adviser for foreign exchange at the Bank of America's Tokyo branch.
The dollar had opened at 100.10 yen, its lowest level ever in Tokyo and down 0.30 yen from Friday's close. It seemed to hover there for most of the morning as fears of intervention by the Bank of Japan counterbalanced a bearish market sentiment toward the dollar. But at about 11:30, a dike seemed to burst, and the yen fell steadily to 99.50 before recovering to 99.70 around noon.
The resignation of Mr. Hata was a factor in the decline. Normally, when a country has a weak or unstable government, the value of its currency declines. But in the case of Japan, some analysts think, the yen will rise because political turmoil will make it more difficult for the nation to reach trade agreements with the United States in the next few weeks. Japan's towering trade surplus has been a major factor in the yen's appreciation over the last few years.
Currency traders will be watching to see whether the Federal Reserve intervenes in the market again today. On Friday, the Fed and 16 other central banks spent an estimated $3 billion to $5 billion to buy dollars.
But unlike two previous such interventions, last August and on May 4, the concerted effort on Friday failed to halt the dollar's decline. In New York trading Friday the dollar closed at a weak 100.45 yen and at 1.584 marks, its lowest level against the German currency in 15 months.
Analysts said the intervention on Friday was too little and too late. However, if the banks act aggressively today, it might be more effective. "We may see a bigger effect than last time," said Kazuo Takayama, director of foreign exchange at Barclays Bank in Tokyo.
 
 
Stock Market Slide
 The stock market, meanwhile, continued a slide it began last week. Two weeks ago the Nikkei average climbed above 21,500, its highest level in more than two years, as investors perceive that Japan was about to recover from its three-year-long economic slump. But last week, the index fell 736.33 points, or 3.4 percent, to 20,766.75 because of fears that the rising yen and political instability would nip the recovery in the bud.
The strong yen hurts Japan's export-oriented companies by making their products less price competitive.
Mr. Hata resigned after only two months in office rather than face a no-confidence vote in Parliament that he was certain to lose. The alternative to resigning would have been to dissolve Parliament and call new elections in about one month.
Business leaders said resignation was the best of the two evils because dissolution of the Diet would bring about a "political vacuum." But as it is, the jockeying among political parties to choose the next prime minister will make it difficult to concentrate on economic policy.
 In connection with its trade talks with the United States, Japan had promised to announce by this week a plan to deregulate parts of its economy, cut income taxes and increase public works spending over the long term.
The package of deregulation measures is expected to be announced Tuesday as scheduled, and so might a 10-year plan to increase public works spending. But a decision on the politically sensitive tax issue might have to wait until a new administration takes power.
Still, Japan's economy is in a better position now to withstand political turmoil than it was last July, when Prime Minister Kiichi Miyazawa was booted out of office, and in April, when Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa resigned.
The economy is stronger and there are no short-term pump-priming fiscal packages needing to be formulated. An income tax cut for this year is already in effect. And to some extent, markets are getting inured to the now quite frequent upheavals in Japanese politics.
"The uncertainty is clearly weighing down on the market, but long-term it won't affect the market environment," said Kathy Matsui, vice president and chief strategist for Goldman, Sachs & Company in Japan.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Doing Better Closer to Home" compares the dollar to the yen, mark, peso and Canadian dollar. (Sources: Datastream; Department of Commerce)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (53%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CREDIT CURRENCIES (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); TRENDS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); WORLD WAR II (56%); 

PERSON: HATA, TSUTOMU (PRIME MIN); POLLACK, ANDREW TSUTOMU HATA (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



633 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 586 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
A wave of mergers and alliances is transforming the nation's trillion-dollar health care system. Without waiting for the outcome of the Congressional health debate, providers of medical care -- including hospitals, physician groups and nursing homes -- are joining to form bigger and bigger networks. The goal is to become large enough to offer the comprehensive services and the reasonable prices needed to assure a steady flow of patients from the increasingly demanding groups that buy medical care. [Page A1.] 
 When an American-led effort by 16 central banks failed to prop up the dollar against the German mark and Japanese yen, many analysts wondered if the Federal Reserve would be forced to raise interest rates as the only way to stop the slide. But Fed officials see a far more complicated picture, one that would appear to have it prepared, but not poised, to take action. [D1.]
 
International
 The dollar hit a new low against the Japanese yen, after 17 central banks failed to halt the dollar's slide on Friday and Japan's Prime Minister, Tsutomu Hata, resigned on Saturday. [D1.]
Declaring Latin America the world's fastest-growing region for American exports, Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown started a weeklong tour of South America with executives from 22 United States companies. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
The Washington Times, the conservative daily linked to the Rev. Sun Myung Moon's Unification Church, has begun a national weekly edition that it hopes will sell 250,000 to 500,000 copies a week. To supporters, the new ambitions are proof of the paper's coming of age, while skeptics say the new publication is fresh evidence the church is trying to mold American public opinion. [D1.]
Are broadcasters forgetting about educational TV? The F.C.C. will seek answers tomorrow. The question before the commission is whether to issue new regulations that would make it tougher for stations to avoid educational programming. Television. [D6.]
Though there are hundreds of computing magazines, parents and children looking for basic guidance about their home PC's have had few choices. Three new magazines hope to change that. [D6.]
Bloomberg will begin publishing a personal-finance magazine to be distributed with Sunday newspapers in major cities. [D6.]
Two well-known agency executives have resigned unexpectedly, reflecting the continuing ferment among the ranks of Madison Avenue's top creative talents. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D7.]
 
Companies
The House of Representatives is poised to pass the most sweeping changes in telecommunications law since the breakup of the Bell telephone system 10 years ago. Together, two bills are intended to change the ground rules for electronic communications. And because of advances in technologies like fiber optics and digital processing, telephone and cable television companies are investing tens of billions of dollars in new video and voice networks. [D1.]
United Technologies offered a dismissed executive a $1 million severance if he kept quiet about how much the company's Sikorsky Aircraft division had defrauded the Pentagon, according to a published report. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
A tiny New Jersey company has patented a system for replacing telephone ringing sounds and busy signals with 15-second advertisements. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]
If Fokker, the Dutch aircraft builder, makes a comeback, is anybody likely to notice? Market Place. [D4.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NURSING HOMES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (73%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (72%); CONSERVATISM (70%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); PERSONAL FINANCE (66%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (64%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (62%); FIBER OPTICS (60%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (60%); GERMAN MARK (55%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); PRIME MINISTERS (52%); 

PERSON: MYUNG MOON (55%); TERESA RIORDAN (55%); RONALD H BROWN (55%); TSUTOMU HATA (55%); STUART ELLIOTT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



634 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 901 words

HEADLINE: Administration Is Faulted Over Conference on Africa

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
An Administration-sponsored conference on Africa that opened today immediately became a lighting rod as black members of Congress seized on it to criticize the President's policies toward Rwanda and other African nations and to criticize the conference itself as poorly planned.
After accusations in recent months that the Administration was neglecting Africa, Anthony Lake, the President's national security adviser, who orchestrated the two-day conference,promised in his keynote speech an increase in attention and assistance to Africa. 
 Appearing before African officials, experts on Africa and business executives involved there, Mr. Lake enumerated poverty, civil wars, rapid population growth and AIDS among the problems that need to be tackled in Africa.
"Caring is not enough," he said. "Caring must be translated into conceptual clarity about the nature of the problems that Africa faces, and then care must be translated into practical action."
But conceptual clarity and practical action are exactly what has been lacking, the Administration's critics argue.
 
No 'Focus on Africa'
 "I don't think there has been a focus on Africa ever in any Administration including this one," said Representative Donald Payne, a New Jersey Democrat who is the chief foreign policy spokesman for the Congressional Black Caucus. "I have no idea what the focus of this conference is or what its intended goals are."
Like most members of the Congressional Black Caucus, Mr. Payne boycotted the conference, complaining that it was poorly and hastily planned, that guests were invited only a few days before it took place, and that the Administration's Africa policy is a mess.
Caucus members also were angry that the White House did not solicit their advice on what the focus of the conference, Mr. Payne said.
 
Criticism on Rwanda
 He faulted the Administration for being slow to condemn the killing in Rwanda as genocide and for dragging its feet on arranging for African nations to intervene in Rwanda.
In a stinging report timed to coincide with the conference, Human Rights Watch said the Administration's "failure to make the prevention and punishment of genocide in Rwanda a priority reflects the low level of American interest in Africa."
The report asserted that the Administration was paying too little attention to human rights in Angola, Liberia, Rwanda, the Sudan and Zaire.
Rejecting this criticism, Mr. Lake said, "Throughout Africa, we have left not doubt in the minds of autocratic leaders that we insist on a rapid transition to democracy, return to civilian rule and respect for human rights."
 
Clinton and Gore to Speak
 Through today's conference, the Administration was visibly trying to open a new chapter in American relations toward Africa. President Clinton and Vice President Gore are scheduled to speak at the conference on Monday.
Mr. Lake said repeatedly that he hoped the conference would help the Administration refine its policies on Africa. But Administration officials said the White House would not announce any new policies or economic aid at the session.
While he had lofty words to describe Washington's commitment to Africa, Mr. Lake acknowledged that its willingness to help is restricted by the Federal budget deficit, an overstretched United Nations, and the American public's uncertainty on when and where to get involved abroad.
 
Genocide in Rwanda
 Mr. Lake pleased the Administration's critics by declaring that genocide has taken place in Rwanda. At the same time, he acknowledged that the United States and other nations had done too little to prevent the killing there. But he had no answers about how to prevent such mayhem.
"It's a story of ethnic hatred transformed into genocide, the story of unspeakable physical horror," he said. "It's a test case of one of the great security challenges of the post-Cold War era -- conflicts within, rather than among, nations. And it's a warning of what can happen if African nations and all of us do too little to stop simmering conflicts before they boil over."
In a videotaped message shown at the conference, President Nelson Mandela of South Africa called on the United States to help Africa build democracy and pull out of poverty by "becoming the leading partner in the most novel and challenging international project since the Marshall Plan."
 
'New and Great Beginning'
 Mr. Mandela urged Americans not to be paralyzed by the false perception that Africa is in permanent decline. "There is no better time and place to play a pioneering role," he said. "For many, many generations, praise will be unto those who rose to the challenge as Africa set on a new and great beginning."
Pointing to the democratic elections that brought Mr. Mandela to power, Mr. Lake asserted that Africa offers plenty of hope.
"The terrible problems of African nations and the pessimism they can breed are matched only in scope by the continent's huge potential," he said.
As evidence of the Administration's concern about Africa, Mr. Lake said Washington had sent food and troops to combat hunger in Somalia. Other evidence, he asserted, included the appointment of special envoys to work on the crises in Angola, Somalia and Sudan, as well as what he said was Administration support for peacekeeping efforts in seven African nations, including Angola, Liberia, Mozambique and Rwanda.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AFRICA (97%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); SUDAN (79%); 

CITY: SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BLACK CAUCUS

GEOGRAPHIC: AFRICA; AFRICA (97%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); LIBERIA (79%); ANGOLA (79%); SUDAN (79%); SAINT PAUL, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BLACKS (IN US); AFRICA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS (88%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); POPULATION GROWTH (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (71%); CIVIL WAR (70%); GENOCIDE (67%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); LAKE, W ANTHONY DONALD M PAYNE (79%); BILL CLINTON (73%); AL GORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



635 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: As Christians Pull the G.O.P. to the Right, Its Leaders Argue Over Holding the Center

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
As they seek to unify their party for the elections this November and in 1996, Republican leaders are arguing over how to handle the growing power of the Christian right. They are clashing over whether to soften their outright opposition to legalized abortion and debating their stands on health care changes, welfare policy and family values.
Only last week, the Senate minority leader, Bob Dole of Kansas, rose in the Senate to denounce the Democrats as "appealing to religious bigotry" by condemning Christian conservatives' influence over Republicans. Yet the next day, a Republican colleague, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, accused his party of intolerance because it had allowed that faction to gain power. Last weekend, prominent Republicans sparred over the issue at Iowa's state party convention. 
 The fractures are evident in a party that is preparing for its first Presidential election in 16 years as the opposition. Even though Republicans are poised to pick up many Congressional seats in the November election, their bigger concerns are about 1996. At issue is how the Republican Party can hold onto its base without pushing itself so far toward the political margins that it nominates a Presidential candidate who cannot win.
There are powerful memories fueling these concerns: the Republicans' nomination of Barry Goldwater in 1964; the Democrats' nomination of George McGovern in 1972, and the 1992 Republican convention in Houston, a display of right-wing fervor that helped doom President George Bush's re-election.
But the problem surfaces most dramatically in the Republicans' ambivalence over the Christian right, the term applied to people who are involved in politics to advance what they see as Christian principles. Many of them attend fundamentalist churches and have an agenda that emphasizes social issues.
 
Influence on the Rise
 While religious conservatives have been active in Republican politics for years, their ranks are growing. Now that the party is no longer shaped by a Republican in the White House, the religious conservatives, a small segment of the party, can wield a disproportionate amount of influence.
Richard Bond, who was chairman of the Republican National Committee during the 1992 convention, worries that the party could get stuck with an image of intolerance. "My biggest fear is that the Democrats and the media will convince the American people that the Republican Party is being taken over by a bunch of nuts, when this is far, far from the truth," he said. "To suddenly affix the adjective 'Christian' to a political party is a death wish."
Last week, each day brought a new round of charges or countercharges between Democrats and Republicans and within the Republican Party over the issue. Mr. Dole and the other 43 Senate Republicans sent President Clinton a letter demanding that he repudiate Democrats who have criticized the religious conservatives.
But beneath the oratory, self-described moderates like Mr. Specter fear that the party may be viewed as so extreme that it may doom its prospects to regain the White House.
Religious conservatives now dominate several state Republican parties, pushing them to adopt more conservative platforms. They are getting elected to local offices like school boards and are beginning to have an influence on higher offices. Conservative Christians played a major role, for example, in the nomination of Oliver L. North as the Republican Senate candidate from Virginia.
"What some are trying to do is take over the party," Mr. Specter said. "That's bad for the Republican Party and bad for the country."
Few other well-known Republicans have spoken out. Many party leaders, even those who do not subscribe to all the beliefs of the Christian conservatives, believe that they have no choice but to sanction, if not encourage, the participation of these Christians.
"The last thing I want," said Representative Jim Leach, an Iowa Republican, "is a story that says I'm opposed to these people."
Many Republican leaders are following the strategy of William Kristol, a Republican theoretician and former chief of staff for Vice President Dan Quayle. Mr. Kristol rejects the idea that the religious conservatives are unduly influencing state Republican parties. He accuses the Democrats of trying to "demonize religious conservatives" as a means to "scare voters into line" against them.
The Democrats have fanned the partisan flames. On a radio talk show on Friday, Mr. Clinton took on evangelical Christian broadcasters, singling out the Rev. Jerry Falwell.
Earlier last week, Representative Vic Fazio of California, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, harshly attacked what he called the "radical right." Then, in a speech to a lesbian and gay conference in New York, Dr. Joycelyn Elders, the United States Surgeon General, attacked what she called the "un-Christian religious right."
Such remarks brought a torrent of outrage from Republicans. Responding to Mr. Fazio, Representative Henry J. Hyde, an Illinois Republican and leading opponent of abortion, declared that "a calculated smear campaign has been launched against millions of decent and loyal Americans."
In interviews, leading Republicans said the ultimate influence of the religious conservatives would depend on whether they would carry only narrow messages against abortion and homosexuals or if they could broaden their appeals to issues like the economy and health care.
As evidence that the religious conservatives are not dividing the party, some Republicans point to the religious right's support for two Republicans who favor abortion rights: Senators Paul D. Coverdell of Georgia in 1992 and Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas in 1993. They say that support demonstrates a growing flexibility among the Christian right as it seeks to broaden its appeal.
"The plus side of it is we're bringing people into the party, and they are middle class with strong family values," Mr. Dole said in an interview. "If I thought they were all directed at one or two issues, I'd be worried about it."
Gov. Pete Wilson of California, who has been at odds with Christian conservatives, is also reluctant to criticize them in an election year. If the religious conservatives try to force their views on other Republicans, he said, "they're going to have a quarrel with a lot of people who consider themselves mainstream conservatives -- but I'm not sure how much of a danger that really is."
 
'Rhetoric of Fear'
 Still, while the views of religious conservatives can vary, many have adamant views on emotional issues like abortion and have already pulled Republican parties to the right in some states. In Texas, for example, the Christian right was able to get a platform that endorses the teaching of creation science and has particularly strong anti-abortion language.
A new study by the Anti-Defamation League concludes that the religious conservatives are a dangerous political force that "brings to cultural disagreements a rhetoric of fear, suspicion, even hatred."
Some Republicans attribute the domination of the Christian right in several state parties to a lack of action by the self-described mainstream Republicans.
"I blame my own ilk," said Senator James M. Jeffords, a Vermont Republican. "If they don't get off their duffs and attend the caucuses and attend the conventions, then they'll lose control. I just hope that we learned in 1992 that we have to have a broad party, and if we try to narrow it down, we'll lose elections."
Richard Wirthlin, who was President Ronald Reagan's pollster, said Republicans would be wise to appeal to the religious conservatives in churches but not be too public about it. "Americans don't like extremes," he said, "and the extent to which the religious right does -- both by tactic and position -- place itself in that class as out of the mainstream, it would hurt the Republicans."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (70%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY REPUBLICAN PARTY (96%); REPUBLICAN NATIONAL COMMITTEE (93%); REPUBLICAN SENATE (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RELIGION (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); FUNDAMENTALISM (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); FAMILY (72%); SOCIETAL ISSUES (72%); ABORTION (57%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (79%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); RICHARD L BOND (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



636 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: In Japan's Imperial Roadshow, Signs of a More Relaxed Era

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HONOLULU, June 26

 BODY:
For two weeks, from the East Coast to Hawaii's sun-drenched shores, the Japanese Emperor's visit to the United States played with all the sweet-tempered monotony of a summer movie intent upon unrumpled distraction.
No politics, please: By definition, the cross-country journey of Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko was purely ceremonial. Even a stop at Pearl Harbor was rejected as too controversial. 
 Yet behind the ceremony lies nuance. Behind the nuance lies meaning, and behind the intricate planning for this trip were subtle messages for a Japanese audience rethinking the role of the imperial household and Japan's relationship with the United States.
The trip, which ended on Saturday, came amid heightened military tension over North Korea, a dramatic slide in the value of the dollar, another round of political upheaval in Tokyo and continuing angst over trade. Students of the imperial household said the trip was a reminder of mutual interests that range from military interdependence to the abstract ideals of democracy.
 
Moving Out From the Shadow
 Its message, they said, is that Japan can move beyond the long shadow cast by Washington after World War II and the ferocious economic competition of the last decade, toward a more sophisticated relationship based on mutual respect.
"The symbolism is that you can come here and you don't have to fight," said John W. Dower, a professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who has studied the Japanese-American relationship for years. "It's exhausting that every time these two big capitalist partners get together, they are basically savaging each other. In a way, this is a strong ritual statement that we can actually find something in common."
Just as important, perhaps, was the message that the United States can charm, not just offend; that it is not the racially divided, violence-prone monster that it sometimes seems when viewed from afar.
"We are in a stage of really profound reconsideration on both sides," said George R. Packard, a former dean of the Johns Hopkins School for Advanced International Studies and now the president of the International University of Japan in Nagata. The Emperor's visit, Mr. Packard said, "has satisfied a deep desire on the part of the Japanese to symbolically explain the solidarity they feel with America."
 
Food and Fear
 Also, he noted, it took place as the Japanese Constitution, written in 1947, is up for review and, perhaps, revision.
To some extent, Japan's re-evaluation of its relationship with the United States has been driven by necessity. Japan's economic boom has ended, leaving the country with a protracted recession and new insecurities about American competitiveness. Its nearly obsessive refusal to import rice was broken by a bad harvest that opened market shelves to California grains. Events in North Korea have brought a tough reminder that the Japanese archipelago is within that nation's target range.
Enter the imperial household. The trip "is a ceremonial gift to [calm] the general carrying on," said Merry I. White, a sociologist who is working as a visiting scholar at Harvard University. "For Japan, long-term relationships are built on a series of ceremonies and rituals that are extremely important, probably more important than 'yes' or 'no.' "
One symbol behind the ceremony, she said, is that the United States, for all its bluster, can be a good friend. "One of the basic messages is that if the Emperor can go, you can, too. Your children are safe here."
By emphasizing the positive and traveling with a sizable press corps, the Emperor beamed home a feel-good America. It was an America made of smiling children at every airport, Scarlett O'Hara lifting her skirts to show the Empress her pantalets in an Atlanta museum and a San Francisco dinner attended by Joe DiMaggio -- the latter of particular interest in baseball-mad Japan.
For the most part, Japanese press coverage of the Emperor's American tour was muted. Other than the news of his meeting with President Clinton, Tokyo's major newspapers ran reports of the trip on their inside pages. O. J. Simpson got more space. Television stations broadcast short spots. Still, the images spoke volumes.
 
Royalty Redefined
 Sharon A. Minichiello, the director of Japanese Studies at the University of Hawaii, said that much of the import of the trip lay in a redefinition of the imperial family.
"I think this is an attempt to say that the Japanese people do really want to be considered part of the world," Ms. Minichiello said. "It is the notion of kokusaika, or internationalization, that the government has been talking about for years."
In fact, as structured and exquisitely controlled as the cross-country trip was, it was a pretty loose affair for a royal family so constrained that the Empress, as she explained to one friend, was told not to drink too much water before long flights so that she would not have to make needless trips down the airplane's aisle.
At almost every stop, Japanese residents of the United States clustered for a glimpse of the royal couple and then explained to reporters that there was virtually no chance to get that close to the pair in Tokyo. The couple stopped at several events to talk at length with their American hosts.
That image of accessibility was beamed home to television sets across Japan. When the Emperor and Empress stayed in a home in Longmont, Colo., a Japanese television crew walked room to room to show it. An even more unusual image would follow. At the Rocky Mountain National Park, the Empress shocked the royal retinue when she asked her driver to stop and then strode across a field near Sheep Lakes to "feel what the sheep feel." That day, she was wearing tennis shoes and pants.
 
'Mom-and-Apple-Pie Thing'
 That very unimperial attitude moved Americans at every stop. "This is the transformation of a faceless role into a bourgeois monarchy," Ms. White said. The Emperor and Empress, she said, were "doing the mom-and-apple-pie thing so that we can all have a good feeling."
Carol Gluck, a professor of Japanese history at Columbia University, said: "Change in the imperial household is glacial, by design. There is a growing normalization of the monarchy, if you can say that monarchy is normal in the 20th century."
Meanwhile, Americans who crossed the royal couple's path moved in precisely the opposite direction, adopting levels of decorum that included curtsies, adoring stares and awkward bowing. Even President Clinton succumbed, caught by photographers in an impromptu bow to the Emperor while the two men stood behind the White House.
American awe in the face of things royal was at a peak. In Brighton, Colo., Robert Sakata, a second-generation Japanese-American who runs a huge vegetable farm, started his morning in work pants and a blue-jeans shirt but met the Emperor in a neat gray suit, even though the Emperor's advance men had told him to be casual.
At every stop, the royal couple met with Japanese nationals stationed in the United States for business and with second- and third-generation Japanese-Americans.
To Japanese who have become United States citizens or have worked in this country only to find themselves somewhat ostracized upon their return home, the Emperor's attention was a reassuring sign that Japan's borders might finally become more porous.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unscripted moments were few as Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko toured the United States. But in one of them, the Emperor took photographs as he and his wife were escorted through the Sheep Lakes meadow at Rocky Mountain National Park in northern Colorado. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ACW (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); 

STATE: HAWAII, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: ACCURIDE CORP (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); HAWAII, USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL, PERSONAL; ROYAL FAMILY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICS (77%); WORLD WAR II (76%); FAMILY (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (61%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (60%); ASIAN AMERICANS (58%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; MICHIKO, EMPRESS OF JAPAN; AKIHITO, EMPEROR OF JAPAN MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



637 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1690 words

HEADLINE: Errors Inflated New York Success At Affirmative-Action Contracts

SERIES: Hidden Partners, Phantom Contracts: Second of two articles.

BYLINE: By ALAN FINDER 

 BODY:
Santa Fe Construction, owned by a black man, got two contracts, each worth $6.5 million, to renovate police station houses. The K-Pam Trucking Corporation, owned by a woman, won a $4.6 million subcontract for work on the construction of New York City's third water tunnel.
Those were among hundreds of examples that enabled Mayor David N. Dinkins, in the middle of his re-election campaign last October, to announce proudly the results of a new effort to award more city contracts to companies owned by women or minorities. 
 Mr. Dinkins said the city had nearly doubled the value of contracts going to such companies in the program's first year. The results were hailed by his allies as a major achievement, emphatically ending a longstanding pattern of discrimination and providing a powerful tool for economic development in the city's poor neighborhoods.
But a detailed analysis of the program by The New York Times found that Santa Fe Construction won only one $6.5 million contract, not two, and that the $4.6 million subcontract for K-Pam Trucking was in fact never awarded.
The bookkeeping for the city's affirmative-action effort was riddled with similar discrepancies and errors, the analysis found, and as a result, the new program's achievement was substantially overstated.
In hailing the program's success, Mr. Dinkins and his aides said that $270 million in contracts had been awarded to women- and minority-owned companies last year, increasing their share of the lucrative market in municipal contracts to 17 percent from 9 percent.
But the Times's examination determined that city officials could not identify nearly $70 million of those contracts.
Half that $70 million, municipal officials acknowledged recently, represents their estimate of the value of subcontracts that were supposed to have been awarded by prime contractors, most of them white, to companies owned by women or minorities. But the Department of Business Services, the lead agency in the affirmative-action effort, cannot say with certainty that any of these subcontracts actually went to such companies, nor can it provide their names.
The Times also found that an additional $34 million in contracts that the department did identify were never really awarded or have been canceled since they were awarded a year ago.
There were repeated patterns of errors and misrepresentation in the city's bookkeeping. Seven large contracts were simply counted twice; city officials attributed them to a "computer glitch." More than 30 construction contracts that the department said had been awarded in fact never were. A half-dozen additional contracts were counted improperly, overstating their value.
It is unclear how these errors occurred. Officials from the Department of Business Services and other city agencies blame one another.
Some supporters of the Dinkins initiative speculate that resistant prime contractors and agency bureaucrats embellished their affirmative-action achievements to mask their true reluctance to include more companies owned by women or minorities in city construction business, which has long been dominated by white contractors.
 
Question of Responsibility
 And some opponents of the effort theorize that members of the Dinkins administration used creative accounting to make their achievement look more impressive, particularly in an election year.
Mary Colon, who was on the Business Services staff that created the program under Mr. Dinkins, and who now serves as the program's director, said her agency was not responsible for the bookkeeping problems. All the contract data were supplied by other city departments, like Parks, Transportation and Environmental Protection, which actually award and oversee contracts, she said.
But officials in a dozen city agencies insisted that many of the contracts listed by Business Services had not been awarded. No work was done and no money changed hands, the officials said.
The agency officials said that they had provided accurate information to the Business Services Department, and they suggested that any errors or distortions must have been made by Business Services.
 
'When You Ask Bureaucrats'
 Bookkeeping problems similar to those found in New York City have occurred in other cities and states, several experts said.
"When you ask bureaucrats their story, they will tell you that they were doing their jobs and then a mandate falls from the sky," said Timothy Bates, the chairman of the graduate program in urban policy analysis at the New School for Social Research, who has studied affirmative-action programs around the country. "So they inflate the numbers."
Rudy Washington, the new Commissioner of Business Services, said he had long suspected that the statistics produced by the Dinkins administration had overstated the results of the city's effort.
"I'd bet that if you looked at the participation of the Asian, Latino and African-American people of the city, the numbers would be around 8 or 9 percent," Mr. Washington said. But he, too, could offer no explanation for all the errors in his department's accounting.
 
Covering Up Foot-Dragging
 Wallace L. Ford 2d, who led the department under Mr. Dinkins, said he believed that some inaccuracies "can be ascribed to less-than-enthusiastic support from personnel."
Mr. Ford said that some officials resisted affirmative action. And because the Dinkins administration exerted considerable pressure on agencies to open up their contracting to more women- and minority-owned companies, he said, some resistant officials may have tried to cover up their foot-dragging by creating fictitious contracts.
Whatever the explanation, Mr. Washington said that after learning of the results of The Times's examination he asked the city's Department of Investigation to look into the program's bookkeeping and procedures. He said he also asked the department to investigate some companies owned by women or minorities that were found by The Times to have close ties to white businessmen.
Mr. Washington also said he might change the city's reporting system. It might be more reliable, he said, to identify contracts awarded to minority- and women-owned companies by using records of city payments to contractors for work performed. His department now relies on reports from city agencies about contracts that they have awarded.
 
Contracts Never Awarded
 A comprehensive list produced last year by the department states that more than 3,800 contracts, worth $235 million, were awarded to 568 companies owned by women or minorities during the program's first year, the fiscal year that ran from July 1992 through June 1993.
The Times's examination focused on 135 relatively large construction contracts that the Department of Business Services said had been awarded by various city agencies to 56 companies.
Of these, 31 contracts, nearly one in four, were never awarded, according to the municipal agencies responsible for letting the contracts. In addition, 11 contracts were either counted improperly by the city, inflating their value, or have been canceled since being awarded a year ago. K-Pam Trucking, for example, never got a $4,564,000 subcontract, according to the Department of Environmental Protection, the city agency that was said to have granted the award.
Others were double-counted. The Department of Business Services' records show that Santa Fe Construction, which is owned by Desmond Emanuel, was awarded a contract for $6,535,000 on May 20, 1993, to be construction manager for the renovation of police stations. A second contract for the same amount was awarded 10 days later, the department said.
 
Some Values Overstated
 But the Department of General Services, which is overseeing the renovation, says only one $6.5 million contract was awarded to Santa Fe Construction.
The values of other contracts were simply overstated. Unique Support Services Inc., which provides temporary office workers, was said to have won two big contracts last spring, one for $3.2 million from the Fire Department and one for $648,178 from the Human Resources Administration.
But fire officials said that the contract was actually for three years, and so it was worth only about $1 million in the last fiscal year. Officials from the Human Resources Administration said its contract was worth only $198,000 last year.
Some minority contractors have already defaulted on contracts awarded to them last year. The Climex Construction Corporation defaulted on two contracts, worth a total of $830,000, that it won in May 1993 to renovate city playgrounds, according to the Parks Department. The relatively small company was overextended, parks officials said, and the contracts had to be canceled.
 
Award Is News to Owner
 Perhaps no company better illustrates the shortcomings of the city's oversight of affirmative action than K-Pam Trucking. Mary Brooks, its president, said she had never heard about the $4.6 million subcontract that she was said to have received. Her company did win a $200,000 subcontract in May 1993 to work on two street reconstruction projects in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn.
K-Pam Trucking's standing as a woman-owned company is also in doubt. When Mrs. Brooks created the company in 1981, her only business experience consisted of owning and operating a Carvel ice cream store from 1963 to 1966. She had no experience in trucking or construction, but her husband, Robert, had spent years driving a dump truck, Mrs. Brooks said in a recent interview.
In September 1991 -- just four months after the company was certified by the state as a woman-owned enterprise -- the State Department of Taxation and Finance ordered K-Pam's corporate status dissolved because of a failure to pay an unspecified amount of taxes.
The corporation's dissolution did not prevent K-Pam Trucking from being certified by the city in 1992 or being awarded the $200,000 subcontract last year.
Mrs. Brooks said she knew nothing about losing her corporate standing. "I'm not aware of it," she said. "I was never notified of anything about this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SANTA FE CONSTRUCTION (56%); DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF BUSINESS SERVICES (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDING (CONSTRUCTION); SURVEYS AND SERIES; WOMEN; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); BLACKS (IN US); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; CONTRACTS AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (92%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (92%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); MINORITY BUSINESS CONTRACTING (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); CITIES (89%); WOMAN OWNED BUSINESSES (89%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); WOMEN (89%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (78%); RACE & RACISM (78%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MAYORS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); 

PERSON: FINDER, ALAN; DINKINS, DAVID N MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



638 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Currency Turmoil Weighing on U.S. and Japan;
Fed Officials Get Confusing Signals on Interest Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 25

 BODY:
Top Federal Reserve officials found mixed signals in this week's turmoil in the currency markets, which they believe has left their course on interest rates unclear.
When an American-led effort by 16 central banks on Friday failed to prop up the dollar against the German mark and Japanese yen, many analysts wondered if the Fed would be forced to raise interest rates as the only way to stop the slide. 
 But the Fed sees a far more complicated picture, one that would appear to have it prepared, but not poised, to take action.
 
Little Fear of Inflation
 The Fed officials do not see any inherent inflationary pressures stemming from the week's events that would require such an action. They noted that the dollar was stable against many currencies, and actually rose against those of two key United States trading partners, Canada and Mexico.
In addition, they believe that the inflation rate in the United States is falling as economic growth becomes more subdued.
But they worry that the drop against the mark and yen could be a warning sign that international investors have come to expect inflation in the United States and are less willing to hold assets here as a result.
A determination to stamp out such expectations, which tend to become self-fulfilling, was a prime reason for the series of interest-rate increases that the Fed undertook this spring to keep the markets satisfied about the pace of economic recovery.
 
The Effect of Rates
 Raising interest rates again might appease the banks, companies and professional traders who have sold billions of dollars in exchange for yen and marks and who on Friday brushed aside an Administration-led effort by the Federal Reserve and 15 other central banks to prop up the dollar.
Higher rates would make American bonds more attractive, providing an incentive for traders to buy the dollars needed to buy those bonds.
But higher rates would also put extra drag on the United States economy, which most economists and many Federal Reserve officials say will grow less quickly in the next six months than it did in the winter and spring.
Another increase in interest rates might also irritate the Clinton Administration, although the dollar's perilous condition could limit that irritation.
Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said in an interview on June 15 -- before the dollar ran into serious trouble -- that given the recent signs of slower consumer spending and economic growth, "I don't see any pressure on the Fed to increase those rates."
To avoid roiling financial markets, senior Fed officials do not like to discuss publicly their plans for changing interest rates and perceptions of currency rates. But they have let their analysis of the market's conflicting signals be known privately.
 
Keeping Tabs
 Top Fed officials watch a broad 10-currency index of the dollar's value that shows the United States currency has fallen very little this year. The Fed's staff presents the index and other statistics to the Federal Reserve Board each Monday morning at a closed-door meeting on monetary policy.
The index shows the dollar's value in comparison to the currencies of Belgium, Britain, Canada, France, Italy, Germany, Japan, Sweden, Switzerland and the Netherlands. The weight of each currency in the index depends on the volume of American trade with each country. Fed officials also keep an eye on other currencies like the Mexican peso.
Even though the yen has been trading at record highs lately, the overall index is higher now than it was in 1987 and during much of the Bush Administration. The index has edged down a couple of percentage points this month -- the latest compilation of the index will be presented today.
A popular rule of thumb among monetary policy experts is that a drop of 10 percent in the trade-weighted value of the dollar produces an increase of 1 percentage point in the inflation rate, but some economists now say the effect is smaller, despite the globalization of the world economy. These economists point to the rising share of American trade with the Latin American and East Asian countries that formally or informally link their currencies to the dollar, and with the oil-producing countries that price their shipments in dollars.
 
Global Factor Played Down
 During Congressional testimony on Wednesday, Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, minimized the effect on inflation from the globalization of the economy. "At this point, we have little aggregate evidence that the increased openness of the United States economy over the past several decades has substantially altered the process of domestic price formation," he said.
But during the same hearing, Mr. Greenspan said the Federal Reserve needed to be ready to raise interest rates in response to expectations of inflation, particularly when the expectations were associated with an economy operating at or near full capacity.
Since World War II, Mr. Greenspan said, "tightened markets became increasingly associated with rising inflation expectations and burgeoning credit demands, which we were sometimes too slow to counter."
Clinton Administration officials, including Alan S. Blinder, a member of the White House Council of Economic Advisers who was approved by the Senate on Friday to become the next vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, have estimated that the economy is operating at 98.5 percent of full capacity -- or better.
The Federal Reserve directly controls only short-term rates, but changing them strongly influences the level of long-term rates. Central bankers try to hold down long-term rates to encourage investors to borrow money for long periods of time and build factories, instead of borrowing for short periods of time and speculating in markets for gold, commodities and other goods. Raising short-term rates tends to dampen inefficient short-term bank lending, economic growth and inflation, eventually pushing down long-term rates as lenders conclude that inflation will not erode their returns.
 
Defensive Policies Abroad
 To be sure, part of the recent fall in the American dollar reflects the strengthening of the German mark and Japanese yen against currencies all over the world, Wall Street economists say. By keeping interest rates fairly high, the German and Japanese central banks have guarded against inflation in their own countries but drained investment money from other countries like the United States, where slackening growth may make higher interest rates less appropriate.
During the last few years, such an international discrepancy in interest rates has often been handled through coordinated changes in rates by central banks. But Robert E. Rubin, the President's national economic adviser, said on Friday that there would not necessarily be talks on such an effort when the leaders of seven industrial democracies meet next month in Naples.
 
Not-So-Distant Memory
 The worst-case chain of events, which no policy makers were willing to discuss publicly, is that the American economy is replaying the events of 1978. As now, the United States economy was then growing faster than those of other large industrial countries and imports soared, so foreigners were being paid more dollars than they were spending for American goods. The value of the dollar began to fall, a problem worsened by an international skepticism about the Carter Administration's foreign policy, similar to the current doubts about the diplomatic skills of the Clinton Administration.
"We're close to that, and certainly the parallels will be drawn, and that will make it more difficult for Secretary Bentsen and President Clinton," said John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, a research organization in Washington. "We've been over this ground in the living memory of a lot of people in the market."
The Federal Reserve chose in 1978 to raise interest rates fairly gradually, a decision that has been heavily criticized as inadequate since then by monetary economists. When inflation jumped to 11 percent in 1979, the central bank was forced to raise short-term interest rates to 20 percent to bring it under control, provoking a deep recession by 1981 and a long, slow reduction in inflation during the 1980's.
But the current situation is different in that, as Mr. Greenspan noted in his Congressional testimony on Wednesday, the amount of money and loans available in the economy is fairly tight. The money supply was expanding quickly in the late 1970's, and inflation was rising then, rather than falling as it has been during the last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); GERMANY (88%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); INFLATION (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (66%); INTERVIEWS (64%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



639 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Aide in Quest Of Latin Trade Riches

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, June 26

 BODY:
Declaring Latin America the world's fastest growing region for American exports, Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown today started a weeklong tour of South America with executives from 22 United States companies.
In particular, Mr. Brown. arriving here on the first stop in a tour of Brazil, Argentina and Chile, said that those three countries "represent immense market opportunities for U.S. businesses." 
 Latin America, the only region where the United States consistently enjoys a trade surplus, doubled its imports of American products in the last seven years, reaching $80 billion last year.
The importance of Latin America to United States trade was underlined last week by the announcement that the trade deficit for April jumped 22 percent compared with March, to $8.4 billion.
But in Latin America, radical decreases in tariffs continue to spur import growth, especially of goods from the United States. In the first four months of 1994, Brazil's imports rose 12 percent and Colombia's imports, 23 percent.
 
Optimism From Unisys
 "There has never been a time when opportunities have been better," said Robert H. Cook, president of the Brazilian subsidiary of the Unisys Corporation. "We are selling branch automation services to banks and document-imaging technology for Brazilian insurance companies."
Describing his mission as "unabashedly pro-business," Mr. Brown said he planned to lobby with Brazilian officials in favor of the Raytheon Company, which is bidding against a French consortium made up of Thomson and Alcatel for a $1 billion radar contract for the Amazon region.
Also hoping for a special hearing in Brasilia was Stephen D. Chesebro, president of Tenneco Gas. The Houston company is interested in a $4 billion project to build a gas pipeline in the late 1990's from Bolivia to Brazil.
Mr. Brown plans to meet this week with the presidents of Argentina and Chile, two countries that he described as leading candidates for admission to an expanded North American Free Trade association. In parallel diplomacy in Washington, President Clinton met with Argentina's President, Carlos Saul Menem, on Friday, and is to see Chile's President, Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, on Tuesday.
 
Praise for 2 Neighbors
 "Chile is first line for obvious reasons," Mr. Brown said of South America's most open and most prosperous economy. "Argentina would be close behind. There is no question that President Menem has done an extraordinary job with economic reform, privatization and liberalization."
Last week, the Clinton Administration submitted legislation that would allow for fast-track approval of new members to an expanded hemisphere trade pact. Mr. Brown said that South American countries now have to decide whether they want to join the accord's partners or to enter into two-way trade agreements with the United States.
Trailing Argentina closely as a candidate for membership, Mr. Brown said, was Colombia, which "has undergone a good deal of economic liberalization and economic reform."
"We have looked favorably upon that," the Commerce Secretary added.
United States exports to Colombia have virtually doubled since 1991, making the nation the United States' third-largest export destination in South America, after Brazil and Venezuela.
"Colombia already has virtually free trade with the United States," said Ambassador Morris D. Busby, in an interview in Bogota last week. "They have let all imports in -- just look at the American cars on the streets, the Haagen-Dazs in the supermarkets."
This trade opening has not been lost on the Europeans, who have watched their exports to Latin America increase by one-third in the last two years. Last week, technicians for the European Union started to draft a proposal to create, in stages, a free trade zone between Europe and Mercosul, the emerging common market composed of Argentina, Brazil, Uruguay and Paraguay.
To further raise Latin America's profile in world trade, the leaders of a dozen and a half big Latin countries agreed on June 15 to support Mexico's President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, for the post of Secretary General of the new World Trade Organization.
Speaking in Brazil, where the Finance Minister is also a candidate for the post, Mr. Brown declined to endorse any candidate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ronald H. Brown. (The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: USY (LSE) (82%); UIS (SWX) (82%); UIS (NYSE) (82%); RTN (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5145 CONFECTIONERY (91%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (82%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (82%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (82%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (66%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); CHILE (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

COMPANY: H BROWN LTD (91%); UNISYS CORP (82%); RAYTHEON CO (66%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; BRAZIL (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); ARGENTINA (94%); SOUTH AMERICA (94%); CHILE (94%); COLOMBIA (92%); BOLIVIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET IMPORT TRADE (91%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); LOBBYING (77%); INSURANCE (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (68%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (68%); APPROVALS (65%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; BROWN, RONALD H (SEC) BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



640 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 866 words

HEADLINE: Tumen Journal;
Wall Around North Korea Has Big Hole in It Here

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TUMEN, China

 BODY:
A convoy of ancient North Korean trucks, some listing precariously under their brimming loads of sacks of Chinese rice, rumbled home recently over the one-lane bridge that spans the Tumen River here.
The bridge and a half-dozen others like it along the 310-mile frontier with North Korea have become a critical lifeline for the Government of that country's President, Kim Il Sung. 
 The $300 million in border trade between China and North Korea, part of the $735 million trade relationship between the two Communist stalwarts, is one reason China was reticent as the United States talked about sanctions on North Korea in response to its nuclear program.
Ever more isolated these days, North Korea is leaning more and more on China to prop up its economy. That is evident here with the increasing shipments of food, fuel and other essential commodities across this frontier.
So far, China's Communist Party leaders are signaling that they intend to stay as close to their longtime ally as "lips to teeth," an old party slogan that the Government has resurrected.
A tough economic embargo would force China to shut down trade along this border, a move that local officials say would wipe out a third of this border region's economic output.
"Any sanctions will only do harm to the peace of the area and it will not make the people of the region happy," said Chao Zhizhong, the deputy director of the state enterprise running the largest trade and barter business. "I am engaged in trade with North Korea, so of course I worry about it."
Sun Jinhu, an official in the Government agency that supervises border trade, added, "We have the same political system and a long history of friendly relations with North Korea, and they depend on China as their elder brother."
There are questions about whether China could enforce sanctions here, where smuggling is rampant. The Communist Party recently removed the mayor of a city in a neighboring province who was running a car smuggling operation.
Clues to the porousness of the border are as common as the right-hand-drive taxicabs in the cities, all smuggled from Japan or Hong Kong.
The river is a thin and unguarded boundary that in the winter can be breached by a short walk, or drive, across the ice.
A tour of the Yanbian Korean Nationality Autonomous Prefecture, as this border enclave in Jilin Province is called, reveals a growing hub of commerce. Local industries manufactured $140 million worth of goods in 1993 that were sold across the border.
Forty percent of the 2.1 million inhabitants of the Chinese prefecture are ethnic Koreans. Most residents speak Korean, which is taught in the schools and is pervasive in street signs, billboards and news broadcasts.
Even local officials are astounded at the tenfold expansion of border trade in the last several years.
Travel agencies in Seoul, South Korea, have been sending more than 15,000 tourists a year to Long White Hair Mountain, a volcanic peak that straddles the border and is the legendary birthplace of the Korean nation. With recently relaxed visa restrictions, the number is expected to reach 100,000 in 1994. Until China and South Korea re-established diplomatic relations last year, it was very difficult for South Koreans to make the pilgrimage.
Now the most popular restaurants and nightclubs in Yanji, the prefecture's capital, are joint ventures with North or South Korean companies.
The Korean market in Yanji is bursting with North Korean goods, proof of economic integration. Its vendors hawk the bountiful array of North Korean seafood, pastries and household goods.
"I have been here 10 years now and business is very good," said Cui Hui Shu, a peddler, holding up the pelt of a North Korean red fox for which she was asking $75.
At Man Kang Hotel in Yanji, a North Korean waitress was wearing a Kim Il Sung button.
In Tumen, the number of convoys moving across this border is increasing, local officials say.
During a recent visit to the border crossing, convoys carrying other staple grains followed the rice trucks. Then came four truckloads of Chinese beer.
The trucks rumbled under a modern Chinese archway and onto the narrow 1,500-foot span to the North Korean border town of Namyang, which appeared drab and lifeless in the distance. The only sound from the North Korean side was the shrill whistle of a steam locomotive, whose antiquity sharpened the contrast with the bustling Chinese side.
Tanker trucks of gasoline also pass this checkpoint to supplement North Korea's critically short supply. The shortage is shutting factories, causing the economy to contract further. Loads of North Korean timber, steel, cement and seafood come back as barter payment.
North Korea's mineral and seafood resources, under strict Government control, are exported because the state gets a good price for them. But people at the border reported that the workers get a meager dole of rice that is barely enough for two meals a day.
A local official in Tumen said that all the evidence suggested that shortages were getting worse across the border. "But even though they have a food problem," he said, "they would never admit it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: For proof of economic integration at the Chinese-North Korean border, all that is necessary is a visit to the market at Yanji, China, where most goods have been imported from North Korea across the Tumen bridge. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)
 
Map of North Korea highlighting Tumen

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: JILIN, CHINA (88%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; CHINA; CHINA (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JILIN, CHINA (88%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); SHIPMENTS (68%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (61%); TRAVEL AGENTS (60%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E; KIM IL SUNG (PRES) KIM JONG IL (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



641 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: South Jersey: Nice Shore, but Definite Attitude

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BARNEGAT LIGHT, N.J., June 24

 BODY:
Kathy Larson-Gutowski was chewing her tuna salad the other day and reminiscing about the year she was away.
"I lived there for a year while I was going to school," she said, "but I couldn't wait to get back home." Had she been in brutal towns like Chicago or New York, or distant cities like Paris or Rome? No, she had lived in Bergen County, in North Jersey. To many South Jerseyans, it might as well have been Bombay. 
 New Jersey may be known to night-show hosts as the state with a turnpike for a spine, but within its 21 diverse counties there are sub-categories of Jerseyness that go well beyond the loyalties split between New York and Philadelphia, Giants and Eagles, subs and cheese steaks. This second fault line is the one that divides South Jerseyans from their fellow citizens to the north. If anything, it is growing wider.
"The great growth surge of the 80's didn't do anything to unify the state; it only confirmed their separateness from each other," said James Hughes, a professor of public policy at Rutgers. If anything changed, Dr. Hughes said, it was that the north became an economic center in its own right during the 1980's, and for the south that achievement is still nowhere in sight.
 
Lower Wages and Prices
 "The northern economy that was originally tied to New York has become somewhat more autonomous and independent," he said. "Since north Jersey is the largest suburban office market in the country, it is therefore a much stronger component of the national economy than the southern economy."
Comparable houses in the north fetch half again as much as those in the south, which some say starts at Exit 8 on the New Jersey Turnpike, or by Interstate 195 from Trenton to the shore. Wages are lower in the south, and outside of the north's embattled cities, the 10 poorest towns in New Jersey, measured in per capita income, are all in the south, according to the 1990 Census.
Distinguishing north and south in pure money terms makes a lot of sense to people down here, at the northern tip of Long Beach Island. For if ever north and south shall meet, it is here on the the Jersey Shore -- only outsiders call it the beach -- when the northerners who journey down to their summer homes or crowd into rented bungalows come face to face with southerners for a few weeks or months.
The proximity mixes mutual affection and mutual need with a dose of regional reserve.
 
Looked At Like Yokels
 "I think the feeling on the part of North Jerseyans is that they are the sophisticates and the educated people, and we're the local yokels who never get out of the county and who leave the keys in our cars at night," said Jamie Faurot, a local craftswoman and shop owner. "It's like we're not moving fast enough for them."
A. Jerome Walnut, clerk of the Barnegat Light borough building inspector's office and long a resident of the southern shore, deals with homeowners and builders from both ends of the state when they walk in seeking permits and paperwork.
"North Jersey has always been more industrial and commercial, the pace of life is more intense, and I think when they come down here they often want a faster pace of service," he said. "I think we're a little more methodical down here, instead of wanting everything done in the last minute."
But Lynne Goldmark, a northerner from farthest Passaic County who rents each summer at the shore, argued that visitors did not have time for patience.
"If we're only going to be here for two or three weeks, we need to get things done in a hurry," she said. "I think that's how we got a reputation for being pushy. Anyway, I've known people down here for years, and it doesn't keep us from being friends."
 
Environmental Frustration
 South Jersey is currently up in arms about a thornier issue than how some people behave in a checkout line. Much of the state's southern half is governed by strict environmental laws that southerners believe the northerners enacted. One is the Pinelands Act, which has sharply curtailed development in a forest sanctuary covering a quarter of New Jersey's land. It is a constant source of frustration for and complaint from inland landowners.
Here on the barrier island, the issue is the state's Coastal Area Facilities Review Act, or Cafra, which restricts development in shore areas. It is unfailing fodder for conversation in local bars and coffee shops. Callers to the Long Beach township offices hear a recording referring all questions about Cafra to the state Department of Environmental Protection and Energy before listing extensions for different town offices.
"People from North Jersey are my customers, my co-workers and my friends, so I don't want them to think I don't like them," said Ron Fella, a local real-estate agent who also operates Broadway Pizza, in the morning shadow of the historic Barnegat Light here, during the summer.
 
North Makes the Laws
 "But the Cafra law is a law made by northern environmentalists and forced on South Jersey and it's been very bad for us," he said. "It's gotten so that I couldn't sell a house once because Cafra would not let the buyer put in a dock he wanted."
Thomas J. Keller, a local builder who went in to Mr. Fella's place for a slice, agreed.
"We're absolutely connected to the north, because North Jersey makes the law," he said. "But we're absolutely separate entities from them."
Even the weather has put the south in thrall to the north, Mr. Fella said, only half-jokingly. Last winter's heavy snows forced so many school cancellations that many North Jersey schools did not begin letting out until this weekend. In the south, most children have been free for a week.
With school still in, northern parents are postponing their trips to the shore, Mr. Fella said. The result: a hot spring, good beach weather, but slow business.
"So," Mr. Fella said, "we even have to worry about how much it snows up there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: "I lived there for a year while I was going to school," Kathy Larson-Gutowski, a resident of Barnegat Light, N.J., said of the year she spent in Bergen County in North Jersey. "But I couldn't wait to get back home." (Photograph by William E. Sauro/The New York Times)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Barnegat Light.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (56%); NEW YORK GIANTS (56%); PHILADELPHIA EAGLES (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (99%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); CENSUS (64%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (63%); SUBURBS (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



642 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Office Market in the Suburbs Is Showing Signs of Recovery

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS, June 23

 BODY:
The troubled office market in Westchester County is showing the first signs of a rebound, following the lead of the office markets in New York City and Fairfield County in Connecticut.
Westchester's vacancy rate is now 25.4 percent, down from 26.9 percent six months ago and 27.1 percent at midyear 1993, according to a survey by the Rostenberg-Doern Company, a real-estate concern. 
 White Plains continues to have a huge surplus of office space, but the vacancy rate has dropped to 33.7 percent from 35 percent six months ago, the survey found.
"After several difficult years, the Westchester office market is moving in a positive direction with steady leasing activity, higher absorption and lower vacancy rates," said John H. Rostenberg, a principal of Rostenberg-Doern, which has offices in Purchase, N.Y., and Stamford, Conn.
One of the largest owners of office space in downtown White Plains, the Robert Martin Company of Elmsford, N.Y., said leasing activity has been robust. Michael Grossman, a vice president of the company, said its White Plains office occupancy rate was now 95 percent.
Mr. Rostenberg noted that the decision by New York State to grant $13.5 million in incentives to keep the Ciba Corporation in Westchester may encourage business relocations in the area.
"Westchester County is starting to benefit from the same kind of aggressive economic development efforts that have rejuvenated Fairfield County," he said.
Another trend, Mr. Rosentenberg said, is that the commercial office market in New York City has improved, with rents in Manhattan rising to a point where some companies will consider Westchester as a relocation option.
The vacancy rate in Manhattan now stands at 15 percent, according to figures supplied by Newmark & Company Real Estate of New York City, compared with 16.36 percent a year ago.
The New Jersey office market, too, shows signs of improvement, said Seena Stein, president of Newmark Partners of Mountainside, N.J.
"Average rents are on the increase after many years of decline," she said, "and most markets throughout New Jersey are experiencing a positive net absorption." The office vacancy rate in New Jersey is 21.8 percent, down from 22.2 percent at the beginning of the year.
One suburban office market that was hit early by the effects of the recession was Fairfield County. But the county and one of its chief office markets, Stamford, have seen two years of improvement.
In 1989, Fairfield County's office vacancy rate stood at 29.8 percent, while Stamford's was 29.6 percent. Since then, the county and the Stamford office markets have made a slow but steady recovery. Fairfield County's office vacancy rate is now 19.7 percent while Stamford's is 18.1 percent.
Mr. Rostenberg credited the turnaround to stable building ownership and competitive asking rents, as well as tax reform and an aggressive economic development program waged by the state of Connecticut.
"In the last year or two there haven't been many corporate downsizings in Fairfield County, so the market has been able to catch its breath," Mr. Rostenberg said.
For places like Westchester it is an encouraging indicator that large corporations from New York City may be looking at the suburbs as a relocation option. One large New York City employer -- Mastercard International -- is considering moving most of its operations out of New York City to sites in Westchester or Fairfield.
John McCarthy, a principal of the real-estate brokerage firm of McCarthy O'Callaghan, said the troubles experienced in Westchester over the last few years have been due in part to cutbacks by some of the nation's largest employers, like Nynex and International Business Machines.
Barring any further large corporate cutbacks, he said, the office market is expected to continue to recover.
"It's a slow process," Mr. McCarthy said. "We're starting to scratch away at it, but there is no quick fix."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "IN THE REGION: Office Vacancy Rates" shows rates of office vacancy in White Plains, Westchester County, Fairfield County and Stamford from '88-'94. (Source: Rostenberg-Dern Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (69%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (69%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROSTENBERG-DOERN CO INC (83%); ROBERT MARTIN CO (69%); BGC PARTNERS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW JERSEY; MANHATTAN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); TRENDS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (75%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (70%); SUBURBS (64%); TAX REFORM (50%); TAXES & TAXATION (50%); 

PERSON: DAVID DAVIS (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



643 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: HEALTH INDUSTRY IS CHANGING ITSELF AHEAD OF REFORM

BYLINE: By MILT FREUDENHEIM 

 BODY:
A wave of mergers and alliances is transforming the nation's trillion-dollar health care system. Without waiting for the outcome of the Congressional health debate, providers of medical care -- including hospitals, physician groups and nursing homes -- are joining to form bigger and bigger networks.
Some of the combinations are being put together by hospitals, like the $1.08 billion deal in which the country's largest for-profit hospital chain, Columbia/HCA Healthcare, agreed to buy the largest chain of surgery centers, Medical Care America, last month. Another such combination is New York Hospital's regional alliance with seven other nonprofit hospitals, two nursing homes and four walk-in clinics, all of which send their most complicated cases to the big Upper East Side hospital. 
 Other deals are being struck by physicians, who have been abandoning solo practices to join medical groups and now fear that even those groups are not strong enough. One example: Mullikin Medical Enterprises, owned by 200 physicians in Southern California, is acquiring the practices of other medical groups around the state. It is also negotiating an alliance with a West Coast hospital chain under which the hospitals would lower their fees for patients admitted by Mullikin doctors.
Insurance companies and health maintenance organizations are also racing to form larger medical networks, signing up hospitals and groups of doctors and sometimes even joining with each other. Two weeks ago, Metropolitan Life Insurance and Travelers announced a joint venture that will provide health insurance for 13 million people nationwide; the companies hope that many of these people will receive their care through the new venture's medical networks. And FHP International and Takecare, two California-based H.M.O.'s, recently combined to cover 1.6 million people in eight Western states.
The goal of all these combinations is to become large enough to offer the comprehensive and conveniently available services and the reasonable prices needed to assure a steady flow of patients from the increasingly demanding groups that buy medical care.
Those buyers are themselves joining in larger and more powerful groups. For example, employers in dozens of areas, from Long Island to San Francisco, have formed alliances to buy medical care for their workers, the better to negotiate satisfactory deals with the growing medical networks.
But what does it mean when both providers and purchasers of health care coalesce, when a system in which total spending is expected to exceed $1 trillion this year is increasingly controlled by large entities?
For the patient, care could improve as the growing medical networks invest in sophisticated computerized systems that analyze the care received by their many thousands of patients and find ways to improve it. The systems could also save money for patients and their insurers by identifying the kinds of treatments that do little good.
"The quality of care will inevitably improve as we begin to gather these people under the same roof," said Jon Glaudemann, a vice president of Aetna Health Plans, one of the largest medical networks.
 
'Who Will Discipline Those Guys?'
 But the consolidation, taken to the extreme, could also cause problems. "If two or three health care companies have sewn up all the doctors and the hospitals and the health system gets oligopolized, who will discipline those guys?" said Uwe E. Reinhardt, a Princeton University health economist.
"The trouble with oligopolies, where there are only a few buyers and sellers, is that they become very sloppy," he added. For example, he said, doctors will say that managed-care companies raise prices and keep the difference. Some California insurers already allot only 70 cents of every premium dollar for health care. "The rest they keep," he said.
And unlike other industries, Professor Reinhardt warned, the health care business may not have outside competitors to push it to improve itself, the way, say, Japanese car makers pushed Detroit to improve its performance.
The poor may also suffer, as groups of employers insuring many people in a community gain the size to negotiate harder with hospitals and reduce the subsidies for patients without health coverage, said Bruce C. Vladeck, who directs the Government's Medicare and Medicaid programs.
 
Fewer Hospitals, Fewer Workers
 Other potential losers include many people in the medical business, like nurses and other hospital employees, who would lose their jobs as the industry consolidated and eliminated, for example, the 250,000 underused hospital beds, 30 percent of the total. At least 15 percent of the 5,500 community hospitals may close, Government officials say. The endangered-species list may also include thousands of "surplus" physician specialists who could not find a place in any of the medical networks being formed.
Finally, several hundred small insurance companies and many regional health maintenance organizations are at risk. "Even among the largest insurance companies, who will survive is in doubt," said Kevin Moley, a former senior health policy maker in the Bush Administration.
The consolidation trend is most evident in places where managed health care is strong, like Minneapolis-St. Paul and Southern California. But even in New York, 47 of 57 hospitals surveyed in March had already joined local hospital networks or systems. The survey, by the Greater New York Hospital Association, recorded ties among hospitals and with nursing homes, neighborhood health centers, home health programs and physician groups.
To be sure, the fragmented health care industry is still a long way from the concentration of an industry like automobiles. But in some places, the consolidation has been striking.
In the Minneapolis-St. Paul area, for example, 1.7 million people -- 70 percent of the total -- are now members of just three big health maintenance organizations, each of which owns its own medical facilities. Each of the H.M.O.'s is the product of merger after merger.
 
The Path of Consolidation
 For doctors and their patients, the consolidation has meant frequent change. Take Dr. Eric Anderson, a Minneapolis internist. His longtime patients have followed him as he moved from a neighborhood one-man office that was affiliated with several hospitals to a larger hospital-owned system that in turn will be absorbed next month by an even larger health care network called Allina.
Allina and the two other big health networks, Health Partners and Blue Cross, compete for the business of two employer groups. One concentrates the buying power of the largest 25 companies; the other represents small businesses.
Badgered by the large buyers, the big H.M.O.'s have held the line on prices this year. Indeed, the state announced on Friday that Allina had reduced its insurance rates for state employees by 25 percent.
"We're in the middle of a major cost war," said George Halvorsen, chief executive of Health Partners. "The hospitals have announced plans to close half of their remaining beds."
Among the most visible players in the consolidation of the health care business is the Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation. The giant hospital chain has already assembled the leading medical care network in 10 Sun Belt markets -- Miami, Tampa, the Florida panhandle, Atlanta, Richmond, Nashville, Dallas, Houston, El Paso, and Louisville, Ky. -- according to Richard L. Scott, chief executive.
Investor-owned hospital chains like Columbia are also buying venerable nonprofit community hospitals and closing some of them. Other nonprofit hospitals have formed managed-care ventures and alliances with Blue Cross and Blue Shield associations in Philadelphia, Kansas City, Mo., and a number of states.
Seventy-one percent of 1,200 hospitals recently surveyed by Deloitte & Touche, the accounting and consulting firm, said they were joining an integrated system that included other hospitals, outpatient units or physician group practices. In the survey, released last week, one-third of the hospitals said they had acquired or were acquiring physician practices.
Some other traditions are crumbling in medicine as doctors abandon their one-person offices to join group practices. And some physicians stand to profit. For example, many primary-care doctors are selling their practices to hospitals or insurance companies for hundreds of thousands of dollars.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Putting It Together" lists big health care companies that have merged to increase their power (Source: Irving Levin Associates) (pg. D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (90%); MET (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (90%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (90%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (90%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (90%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (90%); MULLIKIN MEDICAL ENTERPRISES LP (55%); METLIFE INC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WEST USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; DOCTORS; HOSPITALS; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES HOSPITALS (92%); HEALTH CARE (90%); MERGERS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (72%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (70%); LIFE INSURANCE (65%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (65%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); 

PERSON: FREUDENHEIM, MILT UWE E REINHARDT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



644 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 135 words

HEADLINE: Tool Orders Off in May

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 26

 BODY:
United States machine tool orders fell 18.5 percent during May as higher interest rates slowed economic activity, an industry report showed today.
Economists monitor tool orders to gauge factory output and business investment. 
 The Association for Manufacturing Technology, which prepared the report, said orders declined to $336.85 million in May after rising 11.6 percent in April, initially reported as an 11.7 percent gain.
Compared with a year earlier, tool orders were up 6.7 percent in May.
While higher interest rates are slowing domestic economic growth, foreign demand for goods made in the United States has been restrained by recessions in Germany and Japan.
"If exports begin to turn around, this could be a very good year," Albert Moore, president of the industry association, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); MACHINE TOOLS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (88%); RECESSION (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); 

PERSON: ALBERT MOORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



645 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 441 words

HEADLINE: On the Right Track With Russia

 BODY:
Whatever problems President Clinton may face elsewhere in foreign affairs, his Russia policy is yielding significant advances.
Last week Russia joined NATO's Partnership for Peace, intended to foster military cooperation between once-hostile alliances; Mr. Clinton and President Boris Yeltsin agreed to meet in Washington in September; the U.S. and Russia signed agreements to build a space station together and to have an American consortium develop oil and gas reserves on Russia's Sakhalin Island. They also made progress on curbing nuclear dangers. 
 Mr. Clinton is betting that continued cooperation will help Russia grow into a country its neighbors can live with. To revert to the old cold-war policy of containment now would only aid the ambitions of nationalists like Vladimir Zhirinovsky, confirming their view of the West as an enemy.
Military ties with Russia are critical. The Russian Army is going through a crisis of confidence brought on by a lost war in Afghanistan, a lost empire in Eastern Europe and a lost country, the Soviet Union. Mix that with loss of military pay and stature, soldiers who are returning home with no place to live, corruption and draft-dodging, and the result is a bitter if not explosive brew.
The demoralized army at first objected to joining the NATO venture. It could not bear to settle for the same terms as Latvia, Poland or others in the Partnership for Peace. It sought a broader role more suited to Russia's stature, but in the end accepted the same formal relationship with NATO as the others, along with a pledge of "enhanced dialogue" on matters like Bosnia. If the military partnership succeeds, it could give the Russian Army a new sense of itself, turning it into a force for peace and heading off a second cold war.
Brokering the deal on oil and gas exploration is the least the U.S. could do to help revitalize Russia's devastated economy. Building a space station gives gainful employment to Russian scientists who otherwise might put their skills to dangerous ends.
American encouragement has been decisive in getting Russia and Ukraine to pick up the pace of dismantling their nuclear arsenals. Last week Russia agreed to shut down plutonium production reactors lest the material be stolen and sold abroad.
Mr. Clinton gets little attention or credit for his prudent Russia policy. He has made few speeches defining and defending his quite sensible approach. That has left the field open to his detractors and allowed the public to focus on Somalia, Haiti and Rwanda. But those problems are far less important than a solid relationship with a healthy Russia.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HAITI (79%); POLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LATVIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

COMPANY: NATO'S PARTNERSHIP (70%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (84%); PARTNERSHIP FOR PEACE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); HAITI (79%); POLAND (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); LATVIA (79%); UKRAINE (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US US PRESIDENTS (90%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLD WAR (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (76%); ARMED FORCES (72%); OIL EXPLORATION (71%); SPACE STATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



646 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Protectionism, Alive in Washington

 BODY:
President Clinton preached open trade in April when he signed an international trade agreement in Morocco -- proclaiming it would add $1 trillion to the U.S. economy over the next few years. But when the Administration withdrew from public scrutiny to translate the Marrakesh accord into U.S. law, it lurched toward protectionism.
At issue are anti-dumping rules, which countries use to retaliate against foreigners who sell goods at prices below their production costs. The Marrakesh accord puts limits on the rules so that countries will no longer be able to exploit them by finding dumping where none exists. But the Administration's draft language includes provisions that either change the words of the Marrakesh accord -- which the U.S. signed along with more than 100 other nations -- or twist their meaning in such a way that the U.S. would be able to exclude more imports than the accord intended. 
 To prove dumping, the U.S. typically must show that the price of an import falls below its production cost; the higher the estimated cost, the higher the price the foreigner must charge. The Marrakesh accord permits new foreign companies to base prices on production costs at the end of a start-up period. By that time, costs have usually declined. But the Administration changes the accord to include some earlier and higher costs. That makes dumping easier to "prove."
Another Administration provision would have the effect of forcing foreigners to raise prices when output is low -- during a recession, for example -- just when domestic companies are cutting prices to survive. The Administration also plans to waive part of the accord that would rule out retaliation for minor dumping infractions -- where prices are set within 2 percent of costs. Finally, the accord permits retaliation only to the extent that dumped imports have injured domestic industry; but the Administration would allow retaliation beyond the injuries caused by goods sold at unfair prices.
The pattern here is to rewrite Marrakesh for protectionist purposes. And while this pattern provides new evidence of the Administration's split personality on trade, it comes as no surprise to those who have witnessed other internal battles. Officials like Laura Tyson of the Council of Economic Advisers have fought from the beginning to promote more open trade; others seem determined to protect steel mills and other politically powerful industries from competition.
The draft document is an assault on consumers, who pay higher prices to domestic companies when they are insulated from competition. It is also an assault on domestic exporters -- like pharmaceutical and computer companies -- whose products will be shut out of foreign markets when trading partners mimic the U.S. rules. That reflects poorly on a President who claims Nafta and the Marrakesh accord as hallmarks of his first term.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC2311 MEN'S & BOYS' SUITS, COATS, & OVERCOATS (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); MOROCCO (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MARRAKESH, MOROCCO (90%); 

COMPANY: ACCORD AS (60%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); MOROCCO (91%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); MARRAKESH, MOROCCO (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; TREATIES; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ANTIDUMPING LAWS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); RECESSION (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (71%); UNFAIR PRICING (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (67%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



647 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 295 words

HEADLINE: The Church Can Learn From Its Daughters;
'Cultural Imperialism'

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your June 15 article about the Vatican's stand on the United Nations international conference on population and development calls it a conference on women's rights. The draft of the document discussed during the New York preparatory session is 82 pages long, and it covers topics on population control policies. Only 7 pages are dedicated to development. The agenda being pushed includes a heavy load of population control, allegedly on the assumption that reducing population will reduce poverty. A scientifically respectable proof of this thesis is yet to be put forth.
One may ask who is pushing this agenda and why. The effort to impose the values prevailing among United States delegates to the conference is a case of "cultural imperialism" and an attempt at social control of third world countries. (Nor are those values a unanimous consensus among the people of the United States.) 
 Complying with the "recommendations" on the limit to the number of children allowed per woman will be rewarded with economic aid, while those countries that fail to implement the policies will be deprived of aid. What else is this but imperialism?
As you point out, support for the Vatican's position is high among the Islamic countries, some of Europe and much of Latin America. Clearly, it cannot be assumed this support is based on religious values, but rather on a respectful approach to the dignity of the human person. Perhaps it is time to hear the real political and economic reasons for wanting to curb population growth in the third world.
Undoubtedly, there are problems to be solved in population, development and women's rights and health. The United Nations can do better than this.
 
TONA VARELA
New Rochelle, N.Y., June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN); ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN); ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIRTH CONTROL AND FAMILY PLANNING RELIGION (94%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WOMEN (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); CHILDREN (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); 

PERSON: VARELA, TONY

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



648 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 27, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

HEADLINE: PULSE;
Lawyers

CORRECTION-DATE: June 28, 1994, Tuesday

 CORRECTION:
The Pulse chart in the Metro Section yesterday included incorrect figures in some editions for the number of lawyers per 100 people in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and the United States. The correct figures are: New York, 0.4 in 1987 and 0.5 in 1993; New Jersey, 0.3 in 1987 and 0.4 in 1993; Connecticut, 0.3 in 1987 and 0.5 in 1993; United States, 0.3 in 1987 and 0.3 in 1993.

GRAPHIC: Chart: Disciplinary sanctions against lawyers have risen steadily. Public discipline of attorneys, which can range from reprimand to disbarment, jumped nationally from 1987 to 1993 and by even more in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. Locally, legal experts point to be the recession and the competitive nature of the legal business as reasons for the increasing misuse of client funds and other ethical lapses. The figures also reflect greater efforts by state bar associations and the courts to root out dishonest lawyers. Of all the nation's lawyers, one in six practices in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. (Sources: American Bar Association, New Jersey Office of Attorney Ethics, New York State Bar Association, Census Bureau)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); US CENSUS BUREAU (59%); NEW YORK STATE BAR ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (74%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: Terms not available US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 1994



649 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 7; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Hopes North Korea Can Be Induced to Extend Nuclear Freeze

BYLINE: By MICHAEL R. GORDON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration is confident that it will able to verify the freeze on the North Korean nuclear progam in the next round of talks, to begin on July 8. But the big issue is whether the monitoring can be extended after the negotiations.
To monitor the freeze, two officials of the International Atomic Energy Agency are stationed at the Yongbyon nuclear site. From there, they conduct inspections to make sure that the 8,000 fuel rods the North Koreans have removed from the Yongbyon reactor and dumped into a cooling pond are kept there and not diverted to produce plutonium, an ingredient in atomic bombs. 
 When the inspectors are not present, the agency relies on cameras to keep an eye on the stockpile.
 
Frozen for the Moment
 "Based on our understanding at this moment, the major elements of the program are frozen," the State Department spokesman, Michael McCurry, said today. But the crucial issue is not freezing the North Korean program in the near term. It is the long-term disposition of the the rods.
The three-foot-long rods embody the future of the North Korean nuclear program. If taken to the North Korean reprocessing plant, Administration officials say, the rods could be used to produce enough plutonium in six months for four to five bombs.
In an effort to persuade the North Koreans to make the temporary freeze permanent, the Clinton Administration is considering a package of economic and diplomatic inducements, including an initial exchange of liaison offices.
The best way to cap the North Korean program, Administration officials said, would be to procure the rods and take them to another country for reprocessing. Another approach would be to store them in North Korea in a way that would make it hard for the material to be diverted quickly, like encasing them in concrete.
Whatever arrangement Washington proposes, the North Korean nuclear potential to lurch forward has cast a shadow over the coming talks. Since it takes time for the rods to cool before they can be processed to make plutonium, experts say, North Korea's short-term freeze will not have a major effect on its nuclear ambitions. North Korea's offer to freeze its program is only for the duration of the high-level talks in Geneva.
 
Schedule for the Talks
 Mr. McCurry said today that the first days of the talks will be devoted to presentations by each side. After initial discussions, the two sides will take a break. They will reconvene the following week to discuss each side's position, Mr. McCurry added.
One of the Clinton Administration's fears is that after the talks end, the North Koreans may insist on taking the rods to their reprocessing plant to make more plutonium. The North is allowed to reprocess the plutonium under the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty and might even allow inspectors to be present.
But such a move would be worrisome from Washington's perspective, even if inspectors were present, since it would make an important advance in North Korea's nuclear program. Washington has drawn the line at further processing of plutonium.
Even as the the Administration prepared for its talks, military planning is continuing. Officials said today that the Navy was planning to send two minesweepers and an amphibious vessel from Hawaii to Japan this week as part of Washington's effort to quietly reinforce its military presence on the Korean peninsula. Traveling at about 8 knots, the minesweepers are scheduled to arrive by the end of July.

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Koreas Set Date for Summit
 PANMUNJOM, Korea, Tuesday, June 28 (Reuters) -- North and South Korea agreed in principle today to hold the first summit meeting between their two Presidents in an effort to end half a century of hostility. The meeting will be held on July 25 in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital.
A senior South Korean Government official at this border village to monitor North-South talks on arranging the summit meeting said the date had been set and confirmed by both sides. But he said Seoul wanted a date and venue for a second round of summit talks before committing itself unreservedly to a historic first round.
The South Korean official said the South wanted to setle today on a date and venue for a second round of talks. The North wanted to work out details of a second summit mmeting only after the first one had taken place.
South Korea, although keen to see a summit meeting, is determined that it will not be held at the expense of concessions to the North over its suspected development of nuclear weapons.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

CITY: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INSPECTIONS (77%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: GORDON, MICHAEL R; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



650 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 731 words

HEADLINE: Haiti's Strongman Reported Ready to Retire in October

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, June 27

 BODY:
Haiti's military strongman has said he will step down when his term as commander of the Haitian armed forces expires in October, a high-level military officer said today.
The officer, who spoke on condition that he not be identified, said the commander, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, had merely reaffirmed a long-held intention to retire and was not acting out of fear that the United States would make good on its threat to use force to oust him. General Cedras was a leader of the coup that toppled the elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, in September 1991. 
 The officer said the thinking was that if General Cedras resigned after serving out his term, that would show him to be a strong leader who did not buckle under international pressure. But his voluntary departure could also provide a face-saving solution to the three-year crisis.
"The general knows that he has to leave," the officer said. "The question has always been when and under what circumstances."
 
Three-Year Terms
 The Haitian Constitution provides three-year terms of office for the armed forces commander, but the term is renewable by the President.
In a letter to General Cedras dated Dec. 16, 1993, Father Aristide nominated Maj. Gen. Jean-Claude Duperval as the next commander in chief. But General Duperval, the deputy assistant commander of the army, does not seem to have any real power in the inner circle of the high command.
It was unclear whether the officer describing General Cedras's plan was floating the idea of his departure to elicit a response from the United States, which has been leading the international effort to restore Father Aristide. American diplomats insist that General Cedras should depart immediately so the country can organize parliamentary elections scheduled for November and pave the way for the return of Father Aristide.
"He thinks we're bluffing," a United States diplomat said of General Cedras when informed of the unidentified officer's remarks. "We've got cards he does not know we have. We're asking him to throw in his cards before it's too late."
Economic sanctions, including a near total ban on commercial air traffic and all financial transactions with the United States, have been imposed on Haiti to force the military leaders to surrender power.
Critics of the military have compared recent defiant statements by General Cedras to those of Jean-Claude Duvalier, the former Haitian dictator, who in February 1986 drove around the city telling the Haitian people that his hold on power was as strong as a monkey's tail. A few days later, he was whisked away to exile.
 
On His Own Terms
 But the officer said General Cedras remained confident that public sentiment in the United States did not support an invasion and that having seen the worst of the sanctions, he planned to leave on his own terms.
Father Aristide's recent statements criticizing the Clinton Administration's policy on Haitian refugees, and his seemingly wavering support for a United States-led military intervention, are seen here as having emboldened the military.
In an interview on National Public Radio on Saturday, Father Aristide said that he would not return to Haiti if there was a military intervention. In other interviews, he has said that he would support a "surgical strike" to remove the military leaders.
"It does complicate the equation," the American diplomat said. "This is one of the reasons that this has been such a tough nut to crack."
The officer said that if General Cedras resigned, other elements of the Governors Island accord would be invoked. Under the terms of the accord, signed by General Cedras and Father Aristide last July, the general was to retire, the military and the police were to be separated into different forces and the powerful police chief, Lieut. Col. Joseph Michel Francois, was to be transferred from that post.
 
Balks at Resigning
 But that accord stalled in October after General Cedras refused to relinquish power. The officer said General Cedras was willing to honor his promise but had stayed on because of pressure from officers and soldiers who felt their future would be clouded after his departure.
Some Haitian analysts say that the United States is not eager to dismantle the Haitian Army, which despite its shortcomings is the only functioning institution in the country.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (71%); 

CITY: PIERRE, SD, USA (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (71%); PIERRE, SD, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS ARMED FORCES (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); ARMIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COUPS (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (63%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: CEDRAS, RAOUL (LT GEN); PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



651 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Battered Dollar
Ten years ago, a dollar bought 250 Japanese yen; now, it buys slightly more than 100. The dollar's slide against the yen has evoked cries of alarm from Wall Street. But for many Americans who are not engaged in trading currencies or securities, the dollar's woes have not meant very much. Economic Analysis. [Page A1.] 
 The dollar hit another record low against the yen in Tokyo but later rebounded in New York, buoyed by falling commodity prices, a rising bond market and a belief among some investors that a weak dollar is a bigger problem for Japan than for the U.S. [D6.]
A waiting game was played in banks and investment houses around the world, as currency traders were again left guessing whether or how far the dollar might fall. [D6.]
How can the yen be so strong when Japan's economy is still scraping bottom and its once-seamless political order has unraveled for the second time in a year? Economic Analysis. [D6.]
 
Companies
The U.S. Supreme Court, in a 5-4 decision, endorsed a framework for Federal regulation of cable television but stopped short of upholding a 1992 law that requires cable systems to retransmit the signals of local broadcasters. [D1.] Both sides claimed some element of victory in the decision, but the effect of the ruling won't be felt for perhaps a year or more. [D18.]
RSA Data Security, which controls a coding technique that secures computer-data secrecy, has won industry support. But officials fear RSA's system could limit their control over national security access and are promoting another security standard. [D1.]
Kemper directors voted unanimously to accept a $3.2 billion purchase offer by Conseco, a Carmel, Ind., life insurer whose proposal exceeded an earlier bid by General Electric. [D1.]
General Motors is planning to appoint G. Richard Wagoner Jr., its chief financial officer and head of worldwide purchasing, to run its North American automotive operations. [D3.] The F.B.I. is said to have sought German prosecutors' help in an inquiry of G.M.'s claims that a former official committed industrial espionage. [D2.]
Eli Lilly entered the race to produce genetically engineered blood, signing a development pact with Somatogen. [D3.]
Novell and Wordperfect completed their merger and said they would show their first product at New York's PC Expo. [D3.]
Amoco said it would receive a refund of $440 million from the I.R.S. to settle a dispute over a tax on windfall profits. [D3.]
 
Markets
Coffee prices surged more than 25 percent, the largest one-day rise in more than seven years, as a frost hit much of Brazil's coffee-growing regions. [D1.] Most commodity prices fell sharply. [D15.]
Stocks rallied, as the dollar closed nearly unchanged against leading currencies. The Dow rose 48.56 points, to 3,685.50. [D1.]
Prices of Treasury securities were sharply higher after rebounding from earlier losses connected to the falling dollar. [D16.]
 
International
Sokaiya, gangsters who extort money from companies by threatening to disclose corporate secrets at shareholders meetings, have been a fixture of Japanese corporate life for decades. But a recent murder and attacks on several executives have raised fears that the gangsters are getting more violent. [D1.]
 
The Economy
Sales of previously owned homes slipped seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, the National Association of Realtors said. [D2.]
 
Today's Columns
Some analysts say L.A. Gear is poised for a rebound after a three-year turnaround effort. Market Place. [D8.]
A survey shows that relationships between agencies and their clients are increasingly frayed. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D18.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (53%); GEC (LSE) (53%); GE (SWX) (53%); GE (NYSE) (53%); CNO (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%); LLY (SWX) (52%); LLY (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (53%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (53%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (52%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (76%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (53%); CNO FINANCIAL GROUP INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); ELI LILLY & CO (52%); NOVELL INC (51%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); GERMANY (76%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (77%); BONDS (77%); COFFEE (75%); PRICE CHANGES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); TAX LAW (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (69%); DATA SECURITY (69%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (69%); ESPIONAGE (69%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (64%); EXECUTIVES (63%); COFFEE FARMING (60%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); LIFE INSURANCE (50%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (50%); 

PERSON: RICK WAGONER (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



652 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT THE WHITE HOUSE: CHIEF OF STAFF -- Man in the News;
Once at Odds With White House, Now at Its Helm: Leon Edward Panetta

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Leon E. Panetta, the man now charged with making the White House more efficient and focused, learned early in his career about the power a White House chief of staff can wield.
Mr. Panetta, who began public life as a Republican, was the director of civil rights for the old Department of Health, Education and Welfare in 1969, in the early days of Richard M. Nixon's Presidency. He sought to deal quickly with more than 600 lingering school desegregation cases but was told bluntly to back off to preserve the White House's "southern strategy," the effort to woo the South from the Democrats. 
 When Mr. Panetta pressed ahead anyway, he was dismissed, largely at the instigation of H. R. Haldeman, Mr. Nixon's chief of staff, Mr. Panetta recalled in a 1971 memoir, "Bring Us Together: The Nixon Team and the Civil Rights Retreat."
Today, in a markedly different political climate, Mr. Panetta was appointed White House chief of staff. But the job he has assumed still carries great authority to enforce Administration policy and political consistency.
 
From Nixon to Lindsay
 "I now have the opportunity to help direct the office of the Presidency and to try to make it serve the President in an effective and efficient manner," he said. "It will not be easy. Changes will be made in consultation with the President, but they will be made in the spirit of making the best use of the talent and abilities that are here."
After he was dismissed from the Nixon Administration, Mr. Panetta began working for a man who would provide a model of a Republican-turned-Democrat, Mayor John V. Lindsay of New York. Mr. Panetta was Mayor Lindsay's coordinator for Federal and state aid, working out of Manhattan, Albany and Washington.
Mr. Panetta returned to his native California in 1971 to practice law, seemingly destined to do so for the rest of his life. But in 1976, by then a Democrat, he ran for Congress and won a narrow victory in California's rich agricultural belt.
The district, the state's 16th and the heart of John Steinbeck country, follows the coastline down past Monterey, Santa Cruz and the Big Sur region inland to the fertile fields that first drew Mr. Panetta's immigrant parents.
 
Son of Italian Immigrants
 In the House, Mr. Panetta first gained prominence on the Agriculture Committee, tending to his local constituents' interests, like promoting the legalization of "guest workers" from Mexico to help with the harvest. He was returned to the House election after election with ever wider margins.
In 1978 he began serving on the Budget Committee. For four years, until Mr. Clinton tapped him in 1992 to be director of the Office of Management and Budget, he was the committee's chairman. In that job he demonstrated that mastering the details of legislation and policy can be a source of formidable power.
Leon Edward Panetta was born in Monterey, Calif., on June 28, 1938, the son of Carmelo and Carmelina Panetta. His parents had immigrated from Italy, first to Sheridan, Wyo., where they joined a small Italian community that worked the copper mines, and then to California.
The Panettas eventually settled in Monterey where they opened a restaurant, Carmelo's Cafe, where they shared cooking duties. When Carmelo Panetta became ill in 1947, he bought a walnut ranch, where Leon Panetta grew up among the gnarled trees.
He received his bachelor's degree from the University of Santa Clara in 1960 and was an editor of the law review at the University of Santa Clara's law school, from which he graduated in 1963.
 
A Frugal Philosophy
 In his remarks at the White House today, Mr. Panetta paid tribute to his parents, saying their experience as immigrants had fueled his interest in public service.
Mr. Panetta was not a natural choice for the job of budget director because he had criticized Mr. Clinton's economic proposals during the campaign. He contended that Mr. Clinton was not paying enough attention to reducing the deficit, a position he has taken with varying degrees of alacrity in behind-the-scenes economic fights within the Administration.
Mr. Panetta is known to his friends as frugal in personal habits as well as policy preferences. Most weekends during his 16 years in Congress, he flew home to California. His wife, Sylvia, whom he married in 1962, ran his district office there. They have three grown sons.
During the week, Mr. Panetta roomed with three other members of the House in a small two-bedroom apartment near Capitol Hill.
Mr. Panetta shared the living room with Representative Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of Brooklyn, while Representatives George Miller, Democrat of California, and Marty Russo of Illinois each had a bedroom.
 
Long Hours in the Office
 Mr. Miller said today that the foursome spent much of their time debating politics and policy, but Mr. Panetta did so the least for the simple reason that he often returned to the office at night.
"I think he really will substantially improve the Administration's understanding of Capitol Hill," said Mr. Miller. "He's someone who knows when it makes sense to stand and fight, and when it makes sense to make a deal."
When Mr. Panetta became budget director and was no longer a member of Congress, he moved out of the group apartment and got his own place. It was, he told friends with a smile, his personal nod to the separation of powers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: NIXON ADMINISTRATION (65%); WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES US PRESIDENTS (89%); DISMISSALS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); POLITICS (77%); BUDGETS (76%); ELECTIONS (74%); FOREIGN LABOR (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); RACE & RACISM (71%); MAYORS (71%); 

PERSON: PANETTA, LEON E (DIR); MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D; LEWIS, NEIL A; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) LEON E PANETTA (94%); RICHARD NIXON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



653 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTERED DOLLAR: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Falls But Rallies Some at End

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
The dollar hit another record low against the Japanese yen in Tokyo early today but later bounced back in New York, buoyed by falling commodity prices, a rising bond market and a new sense among some investors that the weak dollar is a bigger problem for Japan than it is for the United States.
Currency traders say there is a growing belief that the dollar has hit bottom for now, trading lower than the economic fundamentals would dictate, and is thus due for at least a temporary bounce upward. 
 Given that, many traders began moving in today to buy up the cheap dollar, betting that the currency's sharp slide is over -- at least for now.
 
Links Among Markets
 The dollar's rise in New York trading both fed, and was fed by, a surge in the bond and stock markets. Those in turn were being fueled by a tumble in commodities prices, which are closely watched by bond and stock traders as a harbinger of inflation.
The dollar started today's trading by hitting new post-World War II lows in Japan and Europe. Despite intervention by the Bank of Japan, the dollar finished in Tokyo at 99.93 yen, after trading as low as 99.50 yen.
Although the dollar dipped below the 100-yen level last week, it always bounced back and never, before today, ended trading at less than one yen to one cent.
The dollar tried to rally in Europe, but ultimately ended there below 100 yen as well. In New York, however, the dollar rebounded, ending at 100.45 yen. Still, that was down slightly from 100.65 yen on Friday.
The dollar also ended at 1.5840 German marks in New York, down slightly from 1.5850 on Friday, but above its recent low of 1.5730 marks.
In the currency markets, there is no long run, only the short run, measured in hours or at the most days. And today's short-run attitude was that the dollar has gone below a level that makes sense in economic terms.
Many analysts are beginning to express the view that the dollar's slide is now a much bigger worry for Japan than it is for the United States. The yen has become so expensive against the dollar that it is pricing some Japanese exporters out of the market. At the same time, the cheap dollar is a boon for American exporters and multinational companies.
"There is more of a yen crisis than a dollar crisis," said Robert Giordano, chief of economic research at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "Japanese exporters are writhing in pain because many of them simply are not competitive at one yen equals one cent. For them this is disastrous. For us what's the big deal?"
That view was shared by the Washington-based nonpartisan Economic Policy Institute, which issued a statement today signed by a number of top economists. "There is no dollar crisis," the statement said. "The current problem is mainly of the yen, not the dollar. The dollar is not collapsing with respect to other currencies."
Of course, if the dollar was to continue its slide, the Federal Reserve might feel compelled to raise interest rates to make dollar-denominated investments more attractive to international investors. But it is still unclear whether the Fed will make such a move at its next policy-making meetings scheduled for July 5 and 6.
On Friday, currency traders were dismissing as "lame" the Clinton Administration's enlisting of help from 15 other nations to buy dollars to prop up the currency. But that move may not have been as ineffective as it first seemed to market watchers.
"The truth is that intervention is not a panacea, but it can be helpful in breaking a slide that has little economic foundation," Mr. Giordano said. "If something is really wrong, it will have to be corrected with policy changes. But if something is not fundamentally wrong, then breaking a slide, or at least slowing it down, can be an effective use of intervention to help people see what is actually going on. It is still premature, though, to say that the dollar is out of the woods."
Some market analysts said the dollar may also have been helped slightly by the news late in the day that President Clinton had decided to shake up his White House and bring in his budget director, Leon Panetta, to be chief of staff
"The market liked what it saw," said John Lipsky, chief economist for Salomon Brothers. "What it saw was that the Administration was not walking away from the issue, saying, 'We gave at the office Friday and don't bother me anymore.' "
Instead, Mr. Lipsky said, President Clinton was clearly "taking steps that are designed to enhance an image of decisiveness."
Mr. Panetta has a reputation as a budget hawk, and a strong advocate of restraining Federal spending.
 
No Big Rally Expected
 Still, even if the dollar has hit bottom, there are a number of structural factors that suggest it is not likely to surge soon.
The weekend resignation of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata of Japan makes it even more unlikely that Japan will have a strong enough Government to make the tough decisions to open its markets more to the world and reduce its $130 billion annual global trade surplus. The piling up of dollars in Japan is one of the strongest drags on the American currency.
Also, with Germany and Japan coming out of recession, interest in those nation's stock and bond markets is growing Investors attracted to those markets will be selling dollars and buying yen and marks.

GRAPHIC: Graph showing Number of Japanese yen a dollar would buy in global spot market trading yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (55%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY CURRENCIES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GERMAN MARK (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); WORLD WAR II (52%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (50%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



654 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTERED DOLLAR: THE TRADERS;
Moving Money and Awaiting the Fed

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 27

 BODY:
Steve Dickinson and Mike Clark hunched before a bank of computer screens on the currency-trading floor at Midland Bank's global markets division here today, watching for any sign that the Federal Reserve or the European central banks were stepping in to calm the world's financial markets by halting the sharp slide in the dollar over the last week.
The American currency had slumped to another postwar low against the Japanese yen during trading in Tokyo overnight. European stock markets, nervous about the turmoil, had opened lower. 
 It was a waiting game being played in countless banks and investment houses around the world. A concerted attempt by central banks to prop up the dollar had failed on Friday. The Clinton Administration's commitment to strengthening the currency remained very much at issue, at least in the minds of participants in the foreign exchange markets.
"If the Fed doesn't come in today, I don't know what will happen," Mr. Dickinson said just after 2 P.M. here.
In the end, neither the Fed nor the European banks came into the market and bought dollars. The American currency continued its decline against both the yen and the German mark, and traders, banks, investment firms, multinational corporations, speculators -- all those who buy and sell currencies -- were again left guessing about how far the dollar might fall and about official American policy toward the decline.
Still, an afternoon spent peering over the shoulders of Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Clark provided a glimpse into the combination of psychology, expectations and economic fundamentals that drive currency markets.
As dealers on Midland's interbank desk, the two men match requests by other banks to buy and sell currencies with prices offered by Midland's traders at desks surrounding them.
Despite large-scale purchases of dollars by the Japanese central bank earlier in the day as the dollar slumped below 100 yen, the Midland dealers in London did not expect any action from the Europeans at least until the start of the business day in New York.
"Because this is deemed to be an American problem, the C.B.'s won't come in until the Fed shows its hand," Mr. Dickinson said, referring to the European central banks.
The pace of trading was almost languid at times. But there were bursts of furious activity. A big customer wanted to sell $250 million for marks. The dollar was trading around 1.58 marks at the time. The interbank desk dealers punched their keyboards and shouted into phones as they sought buyers. They were able to sell $50 million at 1.5790.
There are few buyers of dollars these days. The dollar's weakness may not be justified by the economic fundamentals, Mr. Clark said, but the fundamentals seem to mean little at the moment in the markets. All that matters is identifying the prevailing buying and selling trends and riding them for all they are worth, and right now the trend is clearly downward for the dollar, he said.
"The sizable transactions are people selling dollars," Mr. Clark said. "If every time you buy a dollar you lose money, you stop buying them after awhile."
That process of matching buyer and seller, and taking speculative positions for the bank's own account, occupies the minds of Midland's traders and dealers. While they are by no means unaware of the effects of currency instability on the stock and bond markets and on national economies, market participants give little thought to them while engrossed in the second-to-second world of the data flickering on their screens.
"At the end of the day the idea is to make money for our shareholders, for the room, for our management team, for the end-of-year bonus," Mr. Dickinson said.
Over the last week, most market participants had been making money by betting that central banks, and particularly the Federal Reserve, were not committed to an all-out defense of the dollar. Mr. Dickinson and Mr. Clark said that Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen, who over the last year had left traders with the impression that he favored a weak dollar in relation to the yen, might be happy to see the dollar stay weak as a way of putting pressure on Japan to make trade concessions.
"This is not a market that's very impressed by central banks drawing a line in the sand," Mr. Clark said.
As the afternoon wore on, it became apparent that the Federal Reserve was not going to give the markets a chance to test its mettle for at least another day. The key factor, as far as Midland's dealers could tell, was that stock prices on Wall Street had been stable in early trading, suggesting that the investment markets were recovering their equilibrium despite the dollar's continuing slide.
The Fed may also have been helped when the London stock market, Europe's largest, recovered strongly after falling sharply in the morning. The Financial Times-Stock Exchange index of 100 leading shares closed up 23.3 points, at 2,899.9.
"I think the Fed is probably taking comfort from the fact that the Dow is quite steady," Mr. Clark said. "The lack of central bank activity and the calm in the equity markets adds support to the view that what they're really interested in is stability in the markets rather than the absolute value of the dollar."
The dollar had been gyrating between 1.5810 marks and 1.5750, a spread that provided enough margin for speculators to bet on the market's ticks up and down. But if there was to be wider speculation, Mr. Clark thought it would come later in the day. "The speculators might want to wait until Europe has gone home," he said, "to foreclose the possibility of coordinated intervention by the central banks, and then go Fed-hunting."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Clark, a dealer at Midland Bank's global markets division, following the dollar during currency trading in London yesterday. (Jonathan Player for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

COMPANY: MIDLAND BANK TRUST CO LTD (58%); MIDLAND BANK INTERNATIONAL FINANCE CORP LTD (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (85%); TOKYO, JAPAN (57%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); GERMAN MARK (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); 

PERSON: STEVENSON, RICHARD W HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



655 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTERED DOLLAR: THE JAPANESE;
A Puzzling Strength Amid Turmoil

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 27

 BODY:
As the Japanese yen soared above a crucial benchmark today, the incongruities here seemed even more striking: How could Japan's currency be so strong when its economy is still scraping bottom and its once seamless political order has unraveled for the third time in a year?
For the first time in history, the yen closed in Tokyo worth more than a penny. All day, the market's movements swirled and intermingled with the political maneuverings set off by Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata's resignation on Saturday. Rumors of new combinations of parties and personalities, of secret meetings and imminent divisions in the Liberal Democrats and the Socialists, the country's two largest political parties, only drove the markets into greater fury. 
 The more that it appeared disorder would reign, the more traders here seemed convinced that Japan's $60 billion annual trade surpluses with the United States would not end anytime soon. The result, everyone appeared to agree, would be a still weaker dollar, perceived here as the Clinton Administration's only truly effective trade policy.
 
Demands for Action
 By the hour, more and more leaders of the Japanese business community denounced the confusion, loudly protesting that if their exports were made more expensive, Japan's fledgling recovery risked being choked off. By day's end, they were arguing that unless the politicians straightened themselves out quickly, a wave of red ink would obliterate whatever hope of rebound remained.
"I have grave fears in the face of the political vacuum and the abnormal rise in the yen," Takeshi Nagano, the top official of the Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, said in a statement.
He continued, "The whole of our country's industry will be forced to a standstill."
Of course, any Japanese industry dependent on the import of ever-cheaper raw materials from the United States was not entirely unhappy. But so closely linked were the yen and the politics that this afternoon Japan's chief Government spokesman, Hiroshi Kumagai, who had served as chief Cabinet secretary in Mr. Hata's coalition Government, abandoned customary circumspection. He used the threat of further yen appreciation to try to head off an alliance between the Liberal Democrats, ousted from power last year after a 38-year reign, and the Socialists, the party that defected from the ruling coalition and ultimately forced Mr. Hata to resign.
Traditionally, the Socialists have been viewed as a threat to Japan's stability, because of their opposition to the 34-year-old security pact between Tokyo and Washington, their sympathies for North Korea and calls for protected markets.
"If the L.D.P. and the S.D.P. are allied it would rise to 80 yen" to the dollar, Mr. Kumagai said. Those two parties met today, inconclusively.
Meanwhile, Mr. Hata and his closest ally, Ichiro Ozawa, the shadowy but brilliant strategist who runs the Shinseito (Japan Renewal) party with him, were working furiously behind the scenes to split the Liberal Democratic and Socialist parties and attract defectors into a new conservative coalition.
One thing that is worth remembering is that the political imperatives on one side of the Pacific look pretty remote on the other. American analysts have been saying for some time that investors are expressing their lack of confidence in the Clinton Administration. But there is a mirror issue: Why would anyone have more confidence in Japan's Government?
Some analysts say that the political upheavals here should make no difference for exchange rates; after all, Japan is run by the bureaucrats. But two weeks from now, when the Group of Seven industrialized nations meet in Naples, Tokyo will have to find something to say about how it will stimulate domestic demand and how speedily it will move to deregulate its economy. Both of those are political decisions, and no politician wants to take them.
There are other logical gaps in the conventions about political stability and the strength of the yen. Four years ago, when the yen was rising steadily and the United States was in recession, analysts said that the combination of Japan's growth prospects and its stable government created a natural environment for investment.
Now the reverse is being argued: the lack of growth in Japan and the instability of its Government are combining to keep the trade gap open.
Either way, the yen goes up.
 
A Price Break on Soda
 The argument -- that a higher yen will automatically lead to a flood of American imports -- has its flaws. Some items are cheaper: American-made cars, Compaq computers and private-label soda, which is now being sold at 48 cents instead of the $1.10 for regular brands. But the stronger yen has also led to a surge in imports from China, Southeast Asia and India, and the result can be seen on Tokyo's streets.
More discount goods are now available, including some at "100 yen stores," where many items sell for 100 yen, now exactly $1. Unfortunately for Washington, little of it is made in America.
The Clinton Administration's other hope -- to get more American companies to invest in Japan and thus penetrate its market from within -- is already being undercut. Even at a time of falling property prices, the costs in the 100-to-1 era seem even more insurmountable.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Currency traders in Tokyo as the dollar hit 99.50 yen, a postwar low. (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: THE SOCIALISTS (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE SOCIALISTS (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); JAPANESE YEN (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (57%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



656 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: Divorced Father Accused Of Killing His 2 Children

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TEANECK, N.J., June 27

 BODY:
A 50-year-old divorced father, apparently distraught that his former wife and two children were moving to Florida, murdered the children Sunday and then drove with the bodies to the police headquarters here and parked, the authorities said today.
The man, Avi Kostner, an unemployed cabdriver under psychiatric care for depression, was arrested in the police parking lot after a friend found him slumped over the steering wheel of his Isuzu Trooper and the bodies of the children hidden under a sleeping bag in a rear seat, John J. Fahy, the Bergen County Prosecutor said. Mr. Kostner may have been feigning unconsciousness. 
 The children, Geri Beth, 12, and Ryan, 10, had both been suffocated several hours apart on Sunday, Mr. Fahy said. The girl was killed sometime about 4 A.M. and the boy about 1 P.M., Mr. Fahy said. Where the murders occurred and where Mr. Kostner had the children during a regular weekend visitation remain uncertain, Mr. Fahy said.
 
Children in Custody Battle
 Since their parents' divorce in April 1988, the two children had been at the center of a feud over custody and visiting rights. The children and their mother, Lynn Mison, were scheduled to leave their home in Wayne, N.J., for a new one in Florida on Friday. The planned move apparently left Mr. Kostner deeply troubled.
"We suspect that may have had something to do with this particular crime," Mr. Fahy said.
Merchants near Mr. Kostner's apartment on Teaneck Road here said today that he often complained bitterly about the Florida move and what he considered unfair treatment by judges in the divorce and custody proceedings over the last six years.
"He seemed like a man being pushed over the edge, and it made him goofy," said Jayne Ross, the cosmetics manager at Teaneck Drugs, a pharmacy near Mr. Kostner's apartment.
Ms. Ross said Mr. Kostner often carried a file bulging with divorce and custody papers. He would either show or give them to anyone willing to listen to his complaints.
Recently, she said, Mr. Kostner came to the store, stunned that Ms. Mison had received court permission to move to Florida with the children.
"He said, 'Can you help me find a lawyer? I don't have any money,' " Ms. Ross recounted.
Sam Ahmed, assistant manager of a bagel shop across Teaneck Road from Mr. Kostner's apartment, also said Mr. Kostner often complained about the courts and his ex-wife. During a stop in the shop on Thursday, he said he feared he would never see the children again.
 
'Two Beautiful Kids'
 Mr. Kostner's neighbors said he was a leader in a Boy Scout troop in Teaneck and occasionally worked as a counselor at the Jewish Community Center in neighboring Englewood. They described him as soft-spoken, but often appeared unhappy and despondent.
"They were two beautiful kids, very attractive," one neighbor, Aaron Weinberg said. He said he was stunned by the two murder charges filed against Mr. Kostner.
Under a 1990 court order, Mr. Kostner was allowed custodial visits with the two children every other weekend. This summer, he was to have had custody of them for four weeks, Mr. Fahy, the prosecutor said.
Last Friday, Mr. Kostner picked up his children at their schools in Wayne. Where he took them is still unclear, Mr. Fahy said.
The prosecutor said the times of their deaths was established during autopsies.
 
Telephone Messages
 About mid-afternoon Sunday, Mr. Fahy said, Mr. Kostner began calling friends in New York City and leaving messages on their answering machines that he had killed the children and was going to commit suicide.
One friend came to Teaneck at about 7:45 P.M. Sunday to look for Mr. Kostner. The friend, whom Mr. Fahy refused to identify, and a Teaneck police officer went to Mr. Kostner's apartment about a half mile from the Teaneck police headquarters. No one was home.
They returned to the headquarters about 8:30 P.M. The friend left the station about 9 P.M. At that point, he noticed Mr. Kostner's Isuzu Trooper parked in the lot. The vehicle had not been there at 8:30 P.M.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Geri Beth Kostner, 12, in a school photograph. (Associated Press)
 
Map of New Jersey showing location of Teaneck.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: TEANECK DRUGS (78%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEANECK DRUGS (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEANECK (NJ); UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH MURDER (90%); CHILDREN (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); CALENDARS (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (89%); FAMILY LAW (89%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (78%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); ARRESTS (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (72%); RETAIL BAKERIES (60%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; KOSTNER, AVI; KOSTNER, GERI BETH; KOSTNER, RYAN AVI KOSTNER (97%); JOHN J FAHY (91%); JAYNE ROSS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



657 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1454 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE--UP AT THE WHITE HOUSE: THE OVERVIEW;
CLINTON SHUFFLES HIS AIDES, SELECTING BUDGET DIRECTOR AS WHITE HOUSE STAFF CHIEF

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
President Clinton today announced the most extensive staff shake-up of his 17 months in office, redrawing the lines of power in the White House as he searched for a way to give an air of strength and professionalism to his Administration.
Mr. Clinton removed a fellow Arkansan and lifelong friend, Thomas F. McLarty 3d, as White House chief of staff and replaced him with Leon E. Panetta, the President's budget director. He also installed his counselor, David R. Gergen, to whom he turned in another time of political crisis, in a powerful new position to help refine the Administration's foreign policy. 
 To succeed Mr. Panetta as budget director, the President nominated Alice M. Rivlin, the No. 2 official at the Office of Management and Budget.
Beginning with the setting -- the Oval Office instead of the more informal press room -- everything about today's announcement seemed intended to project leadership and authority in a White House whose stumbles have left an appearance of ill management and whose initiatives have sometimes floundered for lack of a strong central voice.
"I think the job of the President is to make the White House as effective as possible," Mr. Clinton said this afternoon, "which means you have to use people at their highest and best use."
Mr. Clinton portrayed the changes as nothing more than a midterm realignment meant to help the White House in its campaigns to overhaul the health care system, gain respect for its foreign-policy posture and overcome stiff Republican challenges in the November elections.
The President went out of his way to paint Mr. McLarty as an architect himself of the shake-up. And he said his boyhood friend, whom he has known since kindergarten, would remain his "closest and most trusted personal adviser" in a new senior role as counselor on political and legislative matters.
But Mr. McLarty has never pretended to the role of a major legislative strategist, and even among his friends and subordinates in the White House the shuffle was regarded as a sidetracking of the unfailingly courteous former businessmen who had been increasingly described as an ineffectual chief of staff.
White House officials said Mr. Clinton had made plain to Mr. McLarty that their partnership was not working the way it should. Even the august setting of the Oval Office this afternoon could not hide the look of vague unease on the face of Mr. McLarty, the latest among the Arkansans appointed to top jobs in Washington to have fallen from grace.
In Mr. Panetta, a former Congressman from California noted for his mastery of the Federal budget and legislative struggles, Mr. Clinton has turned to a consummate Washington insider whose fiercest battles within the Administration have been fought to keep control of the budget deficit.
Mr. Gergen's standing was also enhanced by the changes. His appointment as a top adviser to both the President and the Secretary of State gave him the role in foreign-policy formulation that he had sought, and been denied, since joining the Administration a year ago.
Mr. Gergen, who served as an aide to three Republican Presidents, had told associates that he intended to leave the White House during the next few months. But White House officials said he would now stay on at least through the end of the year, having been promised a seat on the Administration's highest-level foreign-policy council, the Principals' Committee.
 
Enviable Access
 Mr. Gergen will have offices both at the Old Executive Office Building, a part of the White House complex, and at the State Department, a level of access that is not enjoyed even by the Secretary of State or the national security adviser.
It has been just over a year since the President invited Mr. Gergen to leave the business of political commentary to join the White House staff as part of what until today was Mr. Clinton's most drastic personnel reshuffling. Today's announcement, which was kept secret until this morning from even the most senior White House officials, was an implicit acknowledgment that the current lineup had left Mr. Clinton ill equipped to fight the political wars that he must wage this year.
Senior Presidential aides said tonight that Mr. Panetta's years in Congress had equipped him with the expertise and shrewdness to lead efforts to win passage of a health care bill and other legislation and to help the Democrats avoid what could be a disastrous loss of Congressional seats in the midterm elections this fall.
But they said it remained uncertain whether Mr. Clinton, whose habit is to seek counsel from far and wide, would be willing to cede enough power to allow Mr. Panetta to operate as a traditional chief of staff.
 
'Relaxed Exchanges'
 In an interview tonight, Mr. McLarty said Mr. Clinton made clear to him several months ago that he believed it was important that the two engage in more of the "relaxed exchanges and discussions" that were a fixture of their relationship during the Presidential transition but had grown infrequent since Mr. McLarty became chief of staff.
Mr. McLarty said that he viewed that assessment "as an honest comment from a person who normally speaks his mind very clearly to me," and that he and the President had generally agreed by early this month that he could be more valuable in a counselor's role. The final details were worked out in a lunch between him and Mr. Clinton last Wednesday, and at a dinner on Sunday for which Mr. McLarty invited Mr. Panetta to his house.
Mr. McLarty, who, like Mr. Clinton, was born in Hope, Ark., said he expected to play a major role in reaching out to business leaders, lawmakers and others with whom he has forged a close relationship. Other White House officials said his value as a Presidential emissary and confidential adviser should not be underestimated.
But some officials also described Mr. McLarty's performance as having been limited by a certain deafness to political rhythms, especially on Capitol Hill. They said his courtliness had also seemed to prevent him both from being an effective spokesman for the Administration and from managing the White House with a firm hand, rendering him almost invisible in the public eye except in the wake of embarrassments like the dismissal of the White House travel office staff and a senior official's recent use of a Presidential helicopter for a golf outing.
 
Small Circle
 With his reassignment, Mr. McLarty joins that official, David Watkins, as another of the small circle of high-ranking Arkansans who have been ousted or demoted in unflattering circumstances since Mr. Clinton brought them to Washington. Webster L. Hubbell, the No. 3 official at the Justice Department, was forced to resign after his fellow partners in a Little Rock law firm accused him of improprieties; William Kennedy, an associate White House counsel, was reassigned after his handling of security checks on White House employees came into question. Another Arkansan who was close to the Clintons, Vincent W. Foster Jr., the deputy White House counsel, committed suicide last July.
Mr. Gergen had known he was getting a new job. But except for Mr. McLarty and Mr. Panetta, no one within the White House staff was told of the entire shake-up until this afternoon, and even tonight such details as office assignments remained to be worked out.
While Mr. Gergen was expected to spend most of his time in a new seventh-floor office at the State Department, White House officials said it was unlikely that Mr. McLarty would be relegated to Mr. Gergen's current spot in the basement. They said he would almost certainly be offered work space adjoining the Oval Office.
Mr. Panetta, who will mark his 56th birthday on Tuesday, will move into the corner suite on the main floor of the West Wing that Mr. McLarty has occupied since the President took office.
 
Substantial Clout
 Mr. Panetta has already wielded substantial clout in internal White House battles over economic policy and the shape of health care legislation. The priority he has attached to reducing the budget deficit has frequently put him at odds with White House political advisers and their advocacy of increased Government spending, but even his opponents within the Administration have generally spoken of him with admiration.
Ms. Rivlin, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office, is one of the country's leading scholars on fiscal policy. She was regarded during the Presidential transition as a leading contender for budget director, but was said by aides to Mr. Clinton to have failed then to establish a rapport with him. She has maintained a low profile since being chosen as Mr. Panetta's deputy.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton, announcing a shuffle of White House officials yesterday, was flanked by his new chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta. (pg. A1); President Clinton, announcing a staff shake-up in the formal setting of the Oval Office, greeted Thomas F. McLarty 3d, who is leaving the post of White House chief of staff to become a senior adviser. Others with new duties are, from left, Alice M. Rivlin, nominated to be budget director; Leon E. Panetta, new chief of staff, and David R. Gergen, special adviser to the President and the Secretary of State. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. A12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (53%); 

COMPANY: ;STATE DEPARTMENT (US) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;STATE DEPARTMENT (US) OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (53%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION ; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; AIDES AND EMPLOYEES US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); POLITICS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); DISMISSALS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); HEALTH CARE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (71%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS; GERGEN, DAVID R; MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D; RIVLIN, ALICE M (DEPUTY DIR); PANETTA, LEON E (DIR) BILL CLINTON (94%); LEON E PANETTA (90%); JOEL V STAFF (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



658 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-9
 
KURDS' PROSPECTS FADING
At the end of the Persian Gulf war, the prospects for a Kurdish state appeared good, but bitter factional fighting has caused hopes of democracy to fade and has dissipated Western support. A1
 

A SURGE OF HAITIAN REFUGEES
The Coast Guard has picked up more than 1,800 Haitian boat people since Friday, the highest level in more than a year, flooding the bureaucracy set up so that they can apply for refugee status. A1
 
HAITI LEADER SETS TIMETABLE
The military leader in Haiti is reported to be saying that he will not step down until October, although the United States demands that he step down sooner so that elections can be organized for November. A6
 
A SLIDE'S MUTED IMPACT
Economic analysis: Ten years ago, a dollar bought 250 Japanese yen; now, it buys about 100. The dollar's fall has evoked cries of alarm from Wall Street. But for many Americans, the dollar's woes have not meant very much. A1
 
REFUGEES IN RWANDA LACK AID
Thousands of Rwandan refugees have crossed the border, and French troops in Rwanda are reaching some more, but aid agencies fear that many thousands more in Rwanda are without the help they need. A3
 
HOSTILITY SIMMERS IN HEBRON
Four months after a Jewish settler opened fire on Palestinians in a Hebron mosque, the town remains divided and tense, with travel, commerce and daily life disrupted. A8
 
SLIM CHANCE FOR BOSNIA PACT
News analysis: Western countries will meet to complete a plan for partitioning Bosnia, but it is clear that the mostly Muslim Government is not ready for a settlement. A9
 
MONITORING NORTH KOREA
The United States is confident that it will be able to verify that North Korea has frozen its nuclear program as it has promised, but long-term monitoring will be much more difficult to achieve. A7
 
Bonn Journal: Viewing Germany's "ever-present past." A4
 
National A10-14, D20-21
 
WHITE HOUSE SHAKE-UP
President Clinton redrew the lines of power in the White House, naming the budget director, Leon Panetta, as chief of staff to replace Thomas McLarty, who becomes a counselor; moving his counselor, David Gergen, to a foreign policy role, and nominating Alice Rivlin to replace her boss, Mr. Panetta. A1
 
INSIDERS VS. OUTSIDERS
News Analysis: In the shake-up, President Clinton may have come to the solution earlier White House officials have reached: insiders generally work better than outsiders as chiefs of staff. A1
 
Man in the News: Leon Panetta, the new chief of staff. A13
 
Woman in the News: Alice Rivlin, nominee for budget director. A13
 
GERGEN'S NEW ROLE
In moving to the State Department, David Gergen gets an opportunity to prove himself as a foreign-policy heavyweight. A12
 
HASIDIC DISTRICT REJECTED
The Supreme Court ruled that a school district created by New York State for Satmar Hasidim was unconstitutional, amounting to favoritism toward religion. A1
 
SCHOOL AS USUAL?
While the Hasidic villagers of Kiryas Joel, N.Y., were troubled by their legal setback, the daily lives of the school district's 200 students may not change that much. D21
 
MOYNIHAN'S PLAN
Senator Daniel Moynihan will push a plan for national health insurance that will ultimately require employers to finance most of the cost of their workers' coverage, an official said. A1
 
A study found problems with subsidizing insurance for the poor. A14
 
SEEKING TO DELAY SEX SUIT
Arguing that a President cannot be the subject of a civil suit, lawyers asked a court to put off a harassment lawsuit against President Clinton until he leaves office. A14
 
The Energy Secretary released details of radiation experiments. A10
 
Metro Digest B1
 
THE MAZE OF TENURE
The labyrinthine disciplinary processes supporting tenure are the focus of a debate about balancing rights of academics and the need to discipline certain teachers. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C15-20
 
Britten's music festival revives. C15
 
Were Round Table wits, er, square? C15
 
Theater: Why Oz is the land of the gay. C15
 
"The Spirit Moves." C17
 
Music: Phil Collins. C18
 
Books: "A Map of the World," by Jane Hamilton. C19
 
Television: WNET considers closing its Manhattan studios. C20
 
Fashion B6
 
A collection in every port
Science C1-14
 
From digital input to talking head: the computerized face. C1
 
A year later, historic math proof still awaits publication. C1
 
A fourth drug approved for AIDS treatment. C14
 
Sports B7-13
 
Baseball: Yanks' Key wins his 11th in row. B7
 
Mets rally, then blow lead and lose, 9-8. B9
 
Basketball: Nets may be ready to hire Beard. B11
 
Columns: Berkow on Gay Games. B7
 
Tennis: Martin eliminates Agassi. B7
 
World Cup: Discord breaks out on U.S. team. B7
 
Germany beats South Korea. B10
 
Spain turns back Bolivia. B10
 
Obituaries A15
 
Roy Grutman, trial lawyer with theatrical panache and famous clients.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Now, focus the President.
 
The Constitution's new burden.
 
The declining dollar.
 
Invisible people, made visible.
 
Letters
 
Russell Baker: Activism epidemic!
 
A. M. Rosenthal: Americans on the Golan.
 
Zbigniew Brzezinski: Getting real on Central Europe.
 
Chronicle B4
 
Chess C8
 
Crossword C19

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (71%); GERMANY (71%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE SHAKE-UP (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); RWANDA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); FRANCE (71%); GERMANY (71%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS REFUGEES (91%); DESERT STORM (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (79%); ARMED FORCES (77%); DISASTER RELIEF (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); BUDGETS (73%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); US DOLLAR (68%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (65%); FOREIGN POLICY (64%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (67%); LEON E PANETTA (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



659 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: HAITIANS TAKING TO SEA IN DROVES, ALARMING THE U.S.

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
The tide of Haitian boat people surged today to its highest level in more than a year as the Coast Guard picked up more than 1,000 people on the high seas who were seeking to seize the opportunity the Clinton Administration has given them to apply for refugee status.
The flood is swamping the bureaucracy that the Administration set up to accommodate Haitians who hope to be granted such status. 
 Today's actions bring the number of Haitians intercepted since Friday to more than 1,800. That means more Haitians in their flimsy boats and rafts have been picked up in the last four days than in the first four months of this year.
The surge is alarming American officials, who fear that the 1,000-bed Navy hospital ship they are using to process Haitian boat people off Kingston, Jamaica, will be overwhelmed. They also fear that the larger number of Haitians granted refugee status will create political and economic strains in Florida and other states at a time when immigrants are becoming a major campaign issue.
"The numbers are reaching a level that they have to be a concern," said Duke Austin, spokesman for the Immigration and Naturalization Service. "If they continue to increase, it's going to strain our ability to handle them."
One official said he expected that the Administration would soon be forced to use the Guantanamo Bay naval base in Cuba to process Haitians. But Administration officials said their ability to handle the flood of Haitians would improve when they open an interviewing center in the Turks and Caicos Islands in mid-July.
Administration officials are uncertain about why the number of Haitian boat people has exploded. The most important factor, they say, is that word has filtered back to Haiti that the United States is granting refugee status to a far higher percentage of Haitians than before.
Since the United States began processing Haitian boat people off Kingston two weeks ago, almost one-third have been granted refugee status. That compares with an acceptance rate of one in 20 for Haitians who sought refugee status in the past year.
Why the acceptance rate has risen is unclear. But before President Clinton announced a change in refugee policy on May 8 in response to pressures from blacks and liberals, his Administration was forcibly repatriating Haitians without granting them a hearing.
 
'Pretty Good Odds'
 "Right now if you're in Haiti looking at what you got there and you see you have a 33 percent chance of getting in, you realize those are pretty good odds, so you take a chance," an Administration official said.
Another official said the Haitians had also taken advantage of a calm sea and excellent weather.
Administration officials have long acknowledged that their fear of a wave of Haitian refugees is one of the factors driving their Haiti policy, especially their efforts to oust Haiti's military leaders, who seized power in September 1991.
This week's flood of boat people is expected to increase pressure on the Administration to act decisively to restore Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide. Several officials have said a flood of boat people could increase the chances of military intervention and accelerate the timetable for such intervention.
Coast Guard officials said that after picking up 260 Haitians on Sunday and more than 1,000 today, they had more than 1,300 Haitians on board cutters headed for Kingston, where the Navy hospital ship Comfort is anchored. Before today's actions, the Administration had taken 1,148 Haitians picked up at sea to the Comfort.
Interviews with 477 Haitians have been completed, with 130 of them receiving refugee status. State Department officials said 347 had been denied refugee status, and 267 had been repatriated to Haiti.
American officials noted today that apparently in response to the new processing procedures, Haitians seem to be departing in smaller, less seaworthy boats -- a signal that they are not trying to make the journey all the way to Florida, but expect to be intercepted close to the Haitian coast.
"These are tiny little boats that never had a chance of getting to Florida," said Stanley Schrager, spokesman at the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince.
After the Coast Guard stops the boats, those on board are taken to the Comfort, where they are interviewed to determine whether they warrant refugee status. Those granted refugee status are taken to Guantanamo Bay for medical tests; those rejected are returned to Haiti.
Michael McCurry, the State Department spokesman, urged Haitians today not to flee in flimsy rafts and risk drowning. He said they should instead apply for refugee status at processing centers in Haiti, even though fewer than 10 percent of the Haitians applying there have been granted refugee status.
In its latest step to increase pressure on Haiti's military rulers, the Administration is to announce this week that it will stop granting visas to virtually all Haitians and will cancel outstanding visas, officials said today. Because most Haitians cannot afford to travel, the decision to deny visas is directed primarily at wealthy Haitians and is intended to push them to abandon their support of Haiti's military rulers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amid tightened economic sanctions against Haiti and a higher rate of acceptance of refugee claims, the United States has reported a sharp rise in the number of Haitians trying to flee their country by boat. In Port-au-Prince yesterday, residents mobbed a food handout at a local church. (Agence France-Presse) (pg. A6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (90%); JAMAICA (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: KINGSTON, JAMAICA (52%); 

COMPANY: COAST GUARD (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COAST GUARD (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; FLORIDA; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CUBA (90%); JAMAICA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); KINGSTON, JAMAICA (52%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ELECTION ISSUES; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US IMMIGRATION (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); REFUGEES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (87%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); NAVIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); LIBERALISM (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



660 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: THE BATTERED DOLLAR: THE IMPACT
A Primer on the Dollar;
The Currency's Well-Publicized Decline Hasn't Meant Much for Most Americans

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL 

 BODY:
Ten years ago, a dollar bought 250 Japanese yen; a month ago, it bought just 105. Now, it buys about 100.
The dollar's slide against the yen, as well as against the German mark, in recent weeks has evoked cries of alarm from Wall Street and has been read by some as a judgment of American policy -- and policy makers. "The market is saying your economy is not in good shape," said Georges de Menil, a senior editor of the European-based journal Economic Policy. 
 Yesterday, the dollar fell to a new record low below 100 yen, before recovering in late trading. [Page D6.]
But for many Americans who are not actively engaged in trading currencies or securities, the dollar's well-publicized woes have not meant very much. The economy is growing moderately, new jobs are being generated and inflation is modest.
In the view of some economists, the biggest worry now is that the Clinton Administration, embarrassed by the symbolic weakness of a declining American currency, will care too much about the exchange value of the dollar and too little about the jobs and income, and will lean on the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, impeding further growth.
"The whole idea of having a floating-rate exchange system is to avoid currency crises" that force governments to alter otherwise desirable domestic policies, said James Tobin, a Nobel laureate in economics at Yale University.
While there are, indeed, some effects from a falling dollar, the impact on Main Street is real but relatively minor. When a dollar buys fewer yen or marks, it buys fewer goods made by foreign workers who are paid in yen and marks. Hence, the depreciating dollar is bad news for Americans who are shopping for a Sony camcorder or a bottle of Kirin beer or a Mercedes-Benz, unless the producers are willing to take smaller profits, and hold their export prices flat, as some have done.
But even if prices of imported goods do rise, all those camcorders, cars and what-not imported from Japan and Germany represent just a small percent of American consumption. And at the same time, the value of the dollar has held firm against the currencies of many of the country's trading partners, and even appreciated against the currency of the biggest, Canada.
Over all, a dollar buys just 3 percent less of the mix of goods and services Americans imported last year. Thus, even assuming that Japanese and German exporters were able to pass along their entire 10 percent rise against the dollar since the start of 1994 -- which they have not -- the impact on American living standards would be hard to discern.
Of course, the direct price increases from higher import prices are not the only source of inflation for American consumers. Economists note that American companies with a history of less-than-aggressive price competition may use higher import prices as a lever to raise their own prices. "I would be unhappy if Japan were forced to raise car prices," said George Perry, an economist at the Brookings Institution, who expressed fears that higher prices for Toyotas and Nissans, for example, would give Detroit an excuse to raise its own sticker prices.
It is far from clear, however, that many German or Japanese industries have this much freedom to raise their prices without fear of losing customers in a global economy that is increasingly competitive in high-technology goods. German machinery exports, for example, now face competition from economies ranging all the way from Italy to South Korea to Brazil.
But if inflation is not a significant concern, why have both the stock and bond markets responded so badly to the dollar's decline? American securities prices may have been expected to rise since the depreciated dollar makes American goods more competitive in world markets and thus makes American corporations more profitable.
 
Reflection on Policy?
 One answer -- one apparently taken to heart on Wall Street -- is that the decline of the dollar and the parallel decline in the value of American securities are both symptoms of what Mr. de Menil calls a "lack of credibility in American economic policy."
For all the hoopla over deficit reduction last year and the Federal Reserve's pre-emptive strike against inflation this year, he argues that America's budget and trade deficit problems remain serious and that Washington's will to squash inflation as the economy approaches full capacity remains in doubt.
That is impossible to disprove. But it does not mesh well with the widely held view that the American economy is relatively healthy and relatively resistant -- for the moment, at least -- to the cumulative cost pressures that led to spiraling inflation in the late 1970's.
Nor is it easy to reconcile the timing of the dollar's slide against the yen and the mark with any changes in American policy that would affect confidence in the economy. It is noteworthy that the dollar fared particularly poorly in June -- a month in which forecasters detected signs that the vigorous economic expansion of the last few months was running out of gas -- and therefore less prone to overheat.
The very focus on exchange rates frustrates Mr. Tobin. The virtue of a free market in currencies, he said, is that it permits governments to pursue divergent economic policies that lead to different rates of growth and inflation rather than trying to keep them artificially in line so their currencies stay in tandem.
In this case, he noted, flexible exchange rates have permitted the American economy to recover from recession even as Japan's and Germany's economy remained in the doldrums. Under the post-World War II system of fixed exchange rates, which held until the early 1970's, such divergence would have resulted in a currency crisis and the formal devaluation of one currency against another.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Tobin's prescription for coping with the diminished dollar -- seconded by many others -- is to do "roughly speaking, nothing." And from his perspective, the irony is that American policy makers may take to heart implied criticism from financial markets, whose driving logic is, at times, questionable.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Economic Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); YALE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT PRICES (85%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); BEVERAGE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (67%); EXPORT PRICES (66%); INTEREST RATES (66%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (61%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



661 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Justices Back Cable Regulation

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
A deeply divided Supreme Court endorsed a broad framework for Federal regulation of cable television today but stopped just short of upholding the 1992 law that requires cable systems to retransmit the signals of local broadcasters.
Instead, the Justices held in a 5-to-4 decision that the Government had to present more evidence to justify the law's assumption that the retransmission requirement was necessary to preserve the economic viability of broadcast television. The case now goes back to a special three-judge Federal court, which upheld the law last year.
 
A Return Is Inevitable
 The split nature of the decision enabled both the cable and broadcast industries, locked in bitter economic and political combat, to claim a measure of victory -- assertions that will not finally be resolved until the case makes its inevitable way back for another Supreme Court decision a year or more from now.
But it was clear that the broadcasters, despite being on the losing end of today's decision in a technical sense, had won a great deal. The one-vote majority accepted the rationale Congress had used in crafting what are known as "must carry" rules, as well as the analysis that the special Federal court applied last year in upholding the retransmission requirement.
In fact, most of Justice Anthony M. Kennedy's 45-page opinion read like an all-out affirmance of the lower court's judgment. But in the final pages, Justice Kennedy suddenly switched gears and announced that the case had to be sent back for additional factual findings. That conclusion may have been necessary to hold one of the five members of the majority for an opinion that may have gone through several incarnations since the case was argued more than six months ago.
 
 
Rules Remain in Effect
 The must-carry rules will remain in effect as the case proceeds.
Justice Kennedy said that the must-carry provisions "are justified by special characteristics of the cable medium: the bottleneck monopoly power exercised by cable operators and the danger this power poses to the viability of broadcast television."
The "bottleneck" image was central both to the approach Congress took in enacting the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992 and to the majority's analysis today.
Once a home is wired for cable, as are 60 percent of American households with television sets, viewers no longer have the option of watching broadcast television directly without special equipment. Instead, as a practical matter, viewers are limited to the offerings that the cable system chooses to provide. Congress found that the cable industry, competing with broadcasters for the same advertising dollars, had an incentive to limit broadcasters' access to their systems. Congress also found that cable operators' affiliation with programmers provided an extra incentive to limit broadcasters' access.
The 1992 law, which was passed over President George Bush's veto, requires most cable systems -- those with more than 300 subscribers and 12 channels -- to devote a third of their channel capacity to carrying the signals of local commercial broadcast channels. If the number of local broadcast stations exceeds a third of a cable system's capacity, the system is not obliged to carry them all. A separate provision also provides guaranteed access for public television stations.
As expected, the cable industry immediately went to court to challenge the provisions on First Amendment grounds, on the theory that the Government could not interfere with cable operators' judgment by requiring the transmission of particular speech. A fast-track provision in the law sent the challenge to the special panel of three judges here, with a direct appeal to the Supreme Court.
 
 
Broad Implications
 The case, Turner Broadcasting v. Federal Communications Commission, No. 93-44, had broad theoretical implications as well as enormous practical and economic importance. The Supreme Court had never defined a place for cable television along a First Amendment spectrum that gives the most complete constitutional protection to the press and much more limited protection to broadcasters, on the theory that the scarcity of broadcast frequencies makes regulation necessary.
Justice Kennedy said today that because cable had no comparable physical limitations -- and with the advent of new technology, will soon have no practical limits at all -- the rationale for limited First Amendment protection that applies to broadcasters does not apply to cable.
This was only a limited, theoretical victory for the cable industry, however, because Justice Kennedy's opinion relied on another rationale for justifying Government interference with cable programming of the sort the Court has explicitly rejected with respect to the press. Citing cable's role as "bottleneck or gatekeeper," Justice Kennedy said: "Simply by virtue of its ownership of the essential pathway for cable speech, a cable operator can prevent its subscribers from obtaining access to programming it chooses to exclude."
"The potential for abuse of this private power over a central avenue of communication cannot be overlooked," Justice Kennedy continued, adding: "The First Amendment's command that government not impede the freedom of speech does not disable the Government from taking steps to insure that private interests not restrict, through physical control of a critical pathway of communication, the free flow of information and ideas."
Justice Kennedy's opinion was joined in full by Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and by Justices Harry A. Blackmun and David H. Souter. Justice John Paul Stevens joined the central part of the analysis, but wrote a separate opinion to say that the must-carry rules should be upheld without the requirement of further proceedings. Justice Stevens said he was nonetheless joining the Court's judgment in sending the case back to the lower court so that there would be a majority for that disposition.
The dissenters were Justices Sandra Day O'Connor, Antonin Scalia, Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg. In a dissenting opinion by Justice O'Connor, they said the must-carry rules were "an impermissible restraint on the cable operators' editorial discretion as well as on the cable programmers' speech."
Much of the constitutional debate between the two sides was over whether the must-carry rules have the effect of regulating speech on the basis of content. Under the Court's precedent, content-based regulation of speech is the most serious First Amendment violation, requiring the highest level of justification. "Content neutral" regulations, on the other hand, are justified as long as they serve "an important or substantial governmental interest" and restrict no more speech than necessary.
In concluding that the regulations are content-neutral, Justice Kennedy said that "Congress's overriding objective in enacting must-carry was not to favor programming of a particular subject matter, viewpoint or format, but rather to preserve access to free television programming for the 40 percent of Americans without cable."
Addressing the Government's justifications for the policy, he said, "Assuring that the public has access to a multiplicity of information sources is a governmental purpose of the highest order, for it promotes values central to the First Amendment."
 
 
Dissenters' Argument
 But in the dissenters' view, the Government's choice to favor broadcasters by assuring them access to cable was inherently based on content. "The interest in insuring access to a multiplicity of diverse and antagonistic sources of information, no matter how praiseworthy, is directly tied to the content of what the speakers will likely say," Justice O'Connor said. No interest the Government put forward could justify that interference with cable operators' First Amendment interests, she said.
In sending the case back to the lower court, Justice Kennedy said the Government must demonstrate that "Congress has drawn reasonable inferences based on substantial evidence." Specifically, he said, the three-judge panel must compile evidence to test the Government's assertion that without the must-carry rules, cable operators would drop broadcast stations, which would deteriorate or fail as a result.
The lower court had not conducted a full trial before reaching its original decision, instead granting summary judgment to the Government on the basis of briefs that had been filed. The new proceeding will not necessarily have the character of a formal trial, but many more documents are likely to be filed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US)

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; CABLE TELEVISION; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY CABLE SYSTEM REGULATION (92%); SUPREME COURTS (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CABLE INDUSTRY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); VERDICTS (78%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (78%); APPEALS (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (78%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, LINDA ANTHONY KENNEDY (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



662 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 887 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Gain As Commodities Drop

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were sharply higher yesterday after rebounding from earlier losses connected to the falling dollar.
The 30-year bond rose 22/32 , to 8524/32 , for a yield of 7.45 percent, down from 7.52 percent on Friday. 
 The market rebound followed a sharp drop in commodity prices, which offset investors' fears that a weaker dollar would raise inflation pressures and bring on higher interest rates. As the dollar stabilized and gold prices skidded by as much as $8 an ounce, bond prices gained steadily.
Shorter-maturity bills were mixed, and at yesterday's weekly auction the average rate for new three-month paper was 4.20 percent, up from 4.18 percent the previous week. The average rate for a six-month bill was 4.60 percent, up from 4.55 percent.
 
Commodity Index Falls
 The Commodity Research Bureau index, a closely followed barometer of future inflation pressures, dropped by 2.21 points, to 227.77. Gold for August delivery fell $6.50, to $386.40 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
Treasury securities followed the foreign exchange market as the dollar tried to recover from record lows reached in overnight trading. Volume was light as uncertainty in the debt and currency markets kept many investors sidelined.
"Following the dollar seems to be the game plan," a bond dealersaid.
Darwin L. Beck, a financial economist for CS First Boston, noted that as the dollar stabilized yesterday it also reduced the need for the Federal Reserve to take some kind of action. "The Fed was looking for a reason not to alter monetary policy," Mr. Beck said. "If it did, it will be because of the economy, and not be strictly based on the dollar."
 
Will the Fed Act?
 He said that the dollar, while at a lower level yesterday, was at an exchange rate at which the central bank could feel comfortable in not taking immediate action. "If the dollar remains at current levels, the Fed may wait through its July Federal Open Market Committee meeting," Mr. Beck said. The committee, which sets the Fed's monetary policy for months ahead, meets next week.
"As far as the general outlook," Mr. Beck said, "we think the tightening will be in August when the F.O.M.C. meets again, after the June and July economic data. That is, of course, if the dollar remains stable and the political and economic climates produce no surprises."
Yesterday, comments from Fed and ex-Fed officials threw early jitters into the bond market, along with an initial spike in the commodities index.
According to Bloomberg Business News, Wayne D. Angell, a former Fed governor who is chief economist at Bear, Stearns, said the Fed was likely to raise rates 50 basis points next week. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
The Fed president in Richmond, J. Alfred Broaddus Jr., told Market News that foreign exchange rates were getting more consideration than they used to in policy deliberations, but that they are only one variable the Fed watches. The Fed's best policy course, he said, is to persuade the markets of the Fed's long-term commitment to price stability. Mr. Broaddus said the Fed needed at least to see June data before it could gauge the strength of demand, but he did not see any significant weakening in spending.
 
Frost in Brazil
 The commodities index briefly caused anxiety when it jumped more than a point in early trading, as coffee and cocoa prices soared. Reports of frost in Brazil caused coffee prices to soar, but a drop in gold and lower prices over all in other commodities quickly reassured th market. "If not for gold, the dollar and coffee would have devastated bonds," a bond trader said.
Concerns about a Fed interest rate increase will likely continue to plague the market right up to meeting of the open market committee. Some analysts expect the Fed to raise interest rates by 25 basis points, based on economic factors rather than the dollar's slide.
Greg Jones, an economist with MMS International, said the dollar was not irrelevant in the Fed's policy discussion, "and while it will not be a catalyst for a tightening, it may prompt a half-point rate hike and a more aggressive funds rate hike of 50 basis points," he said.
In the municipal market, Los Angeles County sold $1.15 billion of short-term debt through CS First Boston. The tax and revenue anticipation notes due on June 30, 1995, have a 4.50 percent coupon and were initially priced to yield 3.85 percent. Underwriters said the issue carries the highest short-term rating of MIG-1 by Moody's and SP-1+ by S.& P.
The following are the results of yesterday's auction of new three- and six-month Treasury bills:.
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.938	97.674	Discounted Rate	4.20%	4.60%	Coupon Yield	4.31%	4.78%	High Price	98.941	97.680	Discounted Rate	4.19%	4.59%	Coupon Yield	4.29%	4.76%	Low Price	98.938	97.674	Discounted Rate	4.20%	4.60%	Coupon Yield	4.31%	4.78%	Accepted at low price	50%	53%	Total applied for	$57,714,673	$43,527,538	Accepted	$11,006,141	$11,033,187	Noncompetitive	$1,347,051	$1,053,780	
 
Both issues are dated June 30, 1994. The three-month bills mature on Sept. 29, 1994, and the six-month bills mature on Dec. 29, 1994.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from March to June. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BSC (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BEAR STEARNS COS INC (50%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INFLATION (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); METALS MARKETS (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); TALKS & MEETINGS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT DARWIN L BECK (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



663 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Most Commodities Tumble And Bureau Index Falls 2.21

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Most commodity prices fell sharply yesterday, despite a huge surge in coffee prices.
The selling in grains, livestock, metals and oil pushed the closely watched Commodity Research Bureau index down 2.21 points, to 227.77. 
 "Lumber and pork bellies are limit down, cotton is sharply lower and sugar took a dive," said Warren Seeley, a futures.
"The outlook is grim for speculators who are long in the commodity markets," he said. "If it wasn't for the coffee frost, the C.R.B. would have been down an additional three points."
A severely damaging frost in Brazil, the world's leading coffee producer, set off panic buying of coffee futures yesterday, sending prices soaring more than 25 percent, to seven-and-a-half-year highs.
Coffee for July delivery jumped 33.8 cents, to $1.5975 a pound, after peaking earlier at $1.80, its highest price since November 1986. The more active September coffee contract gained 33.5 cents, to $1.6160 a pound on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York.
But coffee was the exception to the deflationary trend.
"There are very few plus signs in the commodity world," said Jeff Wilson, editor of the Brock Report, a farm marketing newsletter. He noted that the sharp upward spikes in the prices of a host of commodities had receded.
"Worries about currency fluctuation, improved weather in the U.S. and concerns about higher global interest rates have combined to reduce the amount of asset reallocation to commodities from financial assets," Mr. Wilson said.
Rain in the Midwest depressed grain prices. At the Chicago Board of Trade, July soybeans lost 8.25 cents, to $6.59 1/4 a bushel; July corn fell 7 cents, to $2.48 1/2, and July wheat declined 1.75 cents, to $3.13 1/4 a bushel.
Meat prices also fell, with July pork bellies falling 1.575 cents, to 38.95 cents a pound at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Improving rainfall in cotton-growing regions and a general liquidation of agricultural commodities also depressed cotton prices, with the July contract sinking another 1.9 cents, to 71.58 cents a pound.
Signs of weakening home sales helped depress lumber futures. July lumber fell the $10 trading limit at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange to settle at $339.50 for 1,000 square feet.
Earlier yesterday, the National Association of Realtors said sales of previously owned homes slipped seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, the first dip in three months, as higher mortgage rates began to curb the market for existing housing.
Inflation-sensitive precious metals reflected the downturn in commodity prices. August gold fell $6.50, to $386.40 an ounce at the Commodity Exchange in New York, while July silver dropped 15.5 cents, to $5.245 an ounce.
Energy prices also retreated. August crude oil finished 31 cents lower at $19.01 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange. July gasoline lost 0.98 cent, to 52.99 cents a gallon, and July heating oil fell 0.85 cent, to 49.54 cents.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (85%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%); MIDWEST USA (69%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; COFFEE; PRICES COFFEE MARKETS (94%); COFFEE (93%); FUTURES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); LUMBER & PLYWOOD MARKETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); SUGAR MARKETS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); PORK & HOG MARKETS (89%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (89%); EXISTING HOME SALES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); PORK (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); FOOD PRICES (78%); DEFLATION (78%); TRENDS (77%); COTTON FARMING (77%); CURRENCIES (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); AGRICULTURAL MARKETING (68%); MORTGAGE RATES (64%); INTEREST RATES (64%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: JEFF WILSON (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



664 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Sales of Existing Homes Declined 0.7% Last Month

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Sales of previously owned homes slipped seven-tenths of 1 percent in May, the first dip in three months as higher mortgage rates began to curb the market for existing housing, a real estate trade group said today.
The National Association of Realtors said sales nationally were at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 4.09 million, down from 4.12 million in April. It was the first decline since February, when severe winter weather kept shoppers inside. 
 Although sales rose in the East and South, they were flat in the Midwest and had a big drop in the West.
 
Still a Busy Month
 Robert H. Elrod, president of the association, said some consumers chose to delay home purchases in May because of higher mortgage rates, although many remained in the market. May was the seventh month in the last eight in which sales exceeded a rate of four million.
"Despite the rise in mortgage interest rates, affordability conditions remain at one of the best levels of all times and are still a strong driving force behind this healthy housing market," Mr. Elrod said.
Surveys by the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation showed 30-year fixed-rate mortgages averaged 8.6 percent in May, up from 8.32 percent a month earlier and the highest since 8.67 percent in May 1992.
Sales of existing homes had edged up 1.2 percent in April, though sales of new homes fell 6.8 percent that month. Analysts attributed the decline to rates that have risen from 25-year lows in October.
The median price of a previously owned home in May was $109,900, up 3.2 percent from a year earlier, when the price was $106,500. The median is the midpoint in the price range, meaning half of the homes cost more and half cost less.
Regionally, sales jumped 10.5 percent in the Northeast, to an annual rate of 630,000. The median price was $138,300, down 1.4 percent from May 1993. Sales were up 1.9 percent, to a 1.57 million rate, in the South, where the median price was $97,400, up 2.5 percent from a year earlier.
But sales were unchanged in the Midwest, at 1.04 million, and plunged 12.4 percent in the West, to a rate of 850,000. The median price in the Midwest was $87,100, up 2.5 percent from May 1993, and $148,600 in the West, up 5.8 percent from a year earlier.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FRE (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (88%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); MIDWEST USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES; SALES; INTEREST RATES EXISTING HOME SALES (94%); INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (92%); MORTGAGE RATES (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); RETAIL SALES (89%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); NEW HOME SALES (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); CONSUMER LENDING (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); 

PERSON: ROBERT H ELROD (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



665 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 240 words

HEADLINE: The Declining Dollar

 BODY:
The dollar continued to fall against the German mark yesterday and hovered near a post-World War II low against the Japanese yen. But a lower dollar poses no crisis and, for now, warrants no dramatic attention. Indeed, intervention by Washington is likely to be ineffective or damaging.
True, a lower dollar means lower U.S. living standards -- Americans can afford fewer German cameras or Japanese VCR's. And a lower dollar, by driving up the price of imports, adds to inflation. However, these impacts are small because imports account for only about 10 percent of the nation's economic activity. Besides, the dollar will almost surely continue to fall as long as the U.S. racks up huge trade deficits. 
 In any case, there is little useful the U.S. can do about the dollar. Last week the U.S. and its allies launched a coordinated effort to buy dollars and thereby raise their value. But the effort fizzled because even governments cannot easily overcome the torrent of a trillion dollars that sloshes through currency markets each day.
The only quick way to stop the dollar's slide would be to make dollar-denominated assets more attractive to investors by shifting monetary policy toward higher interest rates. But if the Federal Reserve Board were to do that, it would slow the economy and possibly raise unemployment. Given the small benefit of halting a modest fall in the dollar, Fed tightening is not warranted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; EDITORIALS CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (70%); IMPORT PRICES (70%); INTEREST RATES (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



666 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: Getting Real On Central Europe

BYLINE: By Zbigniew Brzezinski; Zbigniew Brzezinski was national security adviser to President Jimmy Carter.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
President Clinton's visits to Latvia and Poland next week, as well as his participation in the Group of Seven summit meeting in Naples a few days later, signal a more comprehensive and strategically coherent U.S. policy toward the former Soviet bloc.
Generated by a working alliance between the National Security Council and the Defense Department, the policy seeks to sustain realistic cooperation with Russia while also enlarging the scope of European security. Both the symbolism and the substance of the President's trip are likely to underline these important themes. 
 The emerging strategy recognizes that the post-Communist transformation in Central Europe has moved beyond the economic phase; the central issue is now the region's relationship to the rest of Europe, especially with regard to security. And this strategy recognizes that in the former Soviet Union, a stable and cooperative relationship between Russia and Ukraine is critical to the successful political and economic transformation of both countries.
A product of serious debates within the Administration and outside it, the new, more realistic U.S. policy seeks to consolidate and formalize the new landscape that has arisen since the Soviet Union's collapse. Its critical objective remains the fashioning of a cooperative relationship between the West and Russia, but it recognizes that this goal is compatible with the progressive deepening of Europe's political unity and the expansion of its security perimeters. Indeed, simultaneously promoting friendly links with Russia and enhancing Central Europe's security is likely to prove more productive than concentrating on one or the other.
The schedule for Mr. Clinton's trip has a strategic logic. In Riga, he is bound to underline American sympathies for the three small Baltic democracies -- echoing the Scandinavian countries, which have become impressively committed to the survival of these former victims of Stalinist expansion. In a remarkable and obviously deliberate formulation, the Swedish Prime Minister recently referred to them as Sweden's "near abroad," adding that his country would not be indifferent if their independence was again threatened.
In affirming U.S. support for the Baltic republics, Mr. Clinton would not be offending the Russians. Except for extremists, most Russians accept the separate status of these republics. Russian troop withdrawals are likely to be completed on schedule; even the large Russian minorities in Estonia and Latvia are developing a stake in the continued independence of these countries, given their impressive economic performance.
In Warsaw, Mr. Clinton will face a more complex issue. The Poles fear that U.S. policy toward Central Europe has become a function of U.S. policy toward Russia. They resent this, and so do the Hungarians and Czechs. At the same time, Russia has made it clear that it opposes the expansion of NATO to Central Europe.
The President's visit is unlikely to resolve the issue of Central European membership in NATO, even though some progress is likely. When Russia joined the Partnership for Peace last week, the alliance made it absolutely clear that Russia did not gain a veto on NATO decisions regarding membership, while Germany in particular has indicated that it favors the expansion of NATO into the geopolitical no-man's land between itself and Russia.
Under these circumstances, the President will have the opportunity to stress two critically important themes: that the expansion of NATO is a natural process, closely connected with the widening of Europe's unity, and that any such expansion will reinforce a stable relationship with Russia. After all, the reconciliation of Central Europe and Russia is more likely in a setting of security than in a geopolitical vacuum. Mr. Clinton might add that an expanding NATO would be prepared to undertake a special treaty relationship with Moscow, commensurate with Russia's status as a major power and now also a friendly one.
The theme of reconciliation will be especially resonant in Warsaw. The Poles are about to observe the 50th anniversary of the 1944 Warsaw uprising, which was suppressed by the Germans after 63 days of fighting while the Russians sat passively on the other side of the Vistula River. By contrast with the Normandy events, the Poles have wisely invited both the German and the Russian leaders to symbolize their desire for genuine reconciliation. The President will thus have an ideal setting to make it clear that reconciliation and wider security reinforce each other and that the U.S. is prepared to clarify the criteria and time frames of NATO membership.
Finally, in Naples, the Group of Seven industrial powers are likely to address the theme that political instability and economic crisis in Ukraine will benefit no one. President Boris Yeltsin will be there -- all to the good, since Western concern for Ukraine's future should not be viewed as an anti-Russian preoccupation.
A more stable and non-imperial Russia is more likely to emerge if there is a stable and secure Ukraine. That is why the Group of Seven, and the U.S. in particular, are preparing to affirm their interest in Ukraine's well-being and to offer aid as long as Kiev shows its willingness to undertake long-delayed economic reforms.
So far, it has not done so. After the presidential runoff election between President Leonid Kravchuk and Leonid Kuchma, the former Prime Minister, that has been mandated by Sunday's election, the Group of Seven should twist the arm of the next president to appoint a dynamic economic reformer as prime minister and give him full political support. In taking the lead on this issue, the Clinton Administration would show an important evolution in its thinking.
The signs of greater sensitivity to Central European security concerns and the increased emphasis on Ukraine are part of a larger and welcome adjustment in U.S. priorities. Ukraine is no longer ignored or slighted. The White House is consciously stressing its support for Ukrainian independence; Secretary of State Warren Christopher has gone out of his way to emphasize U.S. support for Ukraine's territorial integrity on the sensitive issue of Crimea, and Defense Secretary William Perry has been truly energetic in furthering U.S.-Ukrainian military cooperation.
As of this year, aid to the former Soviet Union is no longer ignoring the non-Russian states; in fact, about half of it is now directed to them. This major reallocation reflects a growing recognition that a stable group of nations in the former Soviet Union is infinitely preferable to a renewed imperial structure -- indeed, that a return to empire would probably even doom the still uncertain prospects for Russian democracy.
At a time when the Clinton Administration is under assault for its foreign policy, it is good to be able to welcome the makings of a more realistic and coherent strategy for post-cold-war Europe.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); POLAND (94%); LATVIA (94%); SWEDEN (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%); 

CITY: WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE; LATVIA; POLAND; RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (96%); CENTRAL EUROPE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); POLAND (94%); LATVIA (94%); SWEDEN (92%); UKRAINE (79%); ESTONIA (79%); BALTIC STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); NORDIC COUNTRIES (53%); WARSAW, POLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLAND-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; LATVIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (79%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); 

PERSON: BRZEZINSKI, ZBIGNIEW; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



667 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 454 words

HEADLINE: Let's Not 'Treat' the Problem of Homelessness With Drugs

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Your June 17 article reporting growing support in New York State for involuntary commitment to mental hospitals describes "a bill that would place those released from mental hospitals under court order to take medication and get counseling." 
 A major aim is to force treatment on street people, and in almost all cases, that means drugs without counseling. In my interviews with street people at drop-in centers, I have found nearly all of them would rather endure the risks of homelessness -- including starvation and physical abuse -- than subject themselves to psychiatric drug treatment. Is their viewpoint entirely irrational, as the proposed laws would suggest?
In most cases, the drugs forced on street people are categorized as neuroleptics or antipsychotics. These drugs cause a neurological disorder, tardive dyskinesia, which is usually untreatable and irreversible. It involves involuntary movements that can be disfiguring, disabling and sometimes painful. Conservative estimates indicate tardive dyskinesia strikes 25 percent or more of drug-treated patients. Among the homeless, who are likely to be exposed for longer periods, the prevalence can exceed 50 percent.
As I document in "Toxic Psychiatry" (1991) and elsewhere, proof is growing that many of these patients will also undergo drug-induced permanent damage to their mental processes, tardive dementia. Beyond that, the neuroleptics do not "tranquilize," as some other medications do. They typically produce painful and sometimes agonizing physical and emotional reactions, including akathisia, which can drive the victim to move compulsively in a vain attempt to alleviate the inner agitation.
While the neuroleptics do cause lobotomy-like apathy and docility, this serves the interests of institutional care more than the patient's needs.
Even if, by a seemingly objective standard, drug treatment might "help" some of these people, should we force it on them? In addition to the civil liberties issues, there are social and economic ones. The problems of homelessness should not be "treated" psychiatrically. Homelessness escalated under 12 years of economic policies that reduced the income of the poor and produced unemployment, while raising housing's cost.
Instead of psychiatrically sweeping the streets, let us increase the opportunities for America's poorer and less able citizens. As a group, they are most in need of unskilled or entry-level jobs and affordable housing. And those few who are too disabled to work need our sympathy and support, not involuntary drugs and giant lockups.
 
PETER R. BREGGIN, M.D.
Executive Director, Center
for the Study of Psychiatry
Bethesda, Md., June 17, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; HOMELESS PERSONS HOMELESSNESS (92%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); PSYCHIATRY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); NEUROSCIENCE (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEMENTIA (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (62%); 

PERSON: BREGGIN, PETER R (DR)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



668 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT THE WHITE HOUSE: BUDGET DIRECTOR
Woman in the News;
A Hawk on Budgets -- Alice Mitchell Rivlin

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Many young Americans dream of becoming President someday, but Alice M. Rivlin had a different dream: to become director of the Office of Management and Budget.
Much of her life has been pointed in that direction, and today President Clinton named her to that post. As soon as Bill Clinton was elected President, her many friends started mentioning her as a logical budget director. 
 And at the news conference announcing her appointment, she was bursting with pride that she will be the first woman to head the powerful office whose tentacles reach into every corner of the Government.
Ms. Rivlin, a 63-year-old Philadelphia native, comes to her new job well prepared, having served as Mr. Clinton's deputy budget director and the first director of the Congressional Budget Office.
 
'A Tremendous Knowledge'
 In her 18 months as deputy to Leon E. Panetta, Ms. Rivlin was a numbers-cruncher-in-chief while Mr. Panetta did a lot of the political work, handling members of Congress and facing off with Cabinet members who usually wanted more money for their agencies.
"She clearly brings a tremendous knowledge of the Federal budget, of deficit reduction and of the economy," said Robert Reischauer, the current director of the Congressional Budget Office. "Having worked on the Hill, she brings an understanding of the political dimension and a tremendous knowledge of the intricacies of different Federal programs."
More than a few Administration officials were surprised that President Clinton turned to Ms. Rivlin to replace Mr. Panetta, who was named White House chief of staff. The reason: Ms. Rivlin was in the President's doghouse for several months last year after she questioned whether billions of dollars in his national investment program was being well spent.
To the President's face, she sometimes suggested that it might be wiser to devote those billions to cutting the deficit than to spending it on programs like building highways. Among the President's top econonomic aides, Ms. Rivlin was always considered one of the staunchest deficit hawks.
For a while, there was talk of pushing her out of the O.M.B. by offering her a seat on the Federal Reserve Board. But she insisted on staying in the budget office.
Over the past year, Ms. Rivlin has worked her way back into the President's good graces through hard work and her mastery of the budget's details, other officials say.
Some economists say that naming Ms. Rivlin as O.M.B. director was an astute political move because it will bolster Mr. Clinton's deficit-fighting credentials. "Now it's to the White House's advantage to have someone who is viewed as tough on deficits," said John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute.
Georgianna Alice Mitchell -- she disliked and later dropped her first name -- was born on March 4, 1931. She graduated in 1952 from Bryn Mawr College, and six years later she received a doctorate in economics from Radcliffe College. In 1955, she married Lewis A. Rivlin, a Washington lawyer.
 
With Brookings Institution
 Even though her three children kept her busy, she rose steadily in the economics profession. After receiving her doctorate, she became an economist at the Brookings Institution, where she did research on the budget and social programs. In 1966, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her deputy assistant secretary for program analysis at the Department of Health, Education and Welfare.
She returned to Brookings after President Richard M. Nixon was re-elected in 1972. In 1975, when Congress was looking for a centrist Democratic economist who was not daunted by the Federal budget, it picked her to run its new budget office.
She ran the office for eight years before returning once again to Brookings. At the Congressional Budget Office, she earned high marks for her ability to analyze the economy and work with Republicans and Democrats alike. She also earned respect for telling powerful committee chairmen that budget constraints would not allow them to build every last pork-barrel project.
Now the challenge will be to face up to the Cabinet Secretaries in the annual budget battles. Having Mr. Panetta as White House chief of staff will of course strengthen her hand, although, her economist colleagues say, she does not need anyone's helping hand.
"Alice is pretty tough and pretty independent," said Mr. Makin. "I'm sure there are some people who have plans that will find themselves frustrated by Alice."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 29, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Alice M. Rivlin, the newly appointed director of the Office of Management and Budget, referred incompletely to her marital status. While she married Lewis A. Rivlin in 1955, that marriage ended in divorce in 1977; she married Sidney Winter in 1989.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alice M. Rivlin achieved one of her dreams yesterday by succeeding Leon E. Panetta as the director of the Office of Management and Budget. Mr. Panetta was appointed White House chief of staff. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL PROGRAMS (54%); AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (50%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; RIVLIN, ALICE M (DEPUTY DIR); PANETTA, LEON E (DIR); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); LEON E PANETTA (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



669 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: SHAKE-UP AT THE WHITE HOUSE: NEWS ANALYSIS
Job for a Capital Insider;
In Calling on Panetta as Staff Chief, Clinton Opts for a Doer Rather Than a Doorkeeper

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
Marlin Fitzwater, who was the President's spokesman in the Reagan and Bush White Houses, has just finished writing a chapter in his memoirs about the seven chiefs of staff he worked under -- starting and ending with James A. Baker 3d.
One of his conclusions is that Washington insiders have a better chance of succeeding as chief of staff than do outsiders. "The White House," Mr. Fitzwater said in an interview today, "operates on a set of rules and principles applicable in no other setting." 
 President Clinton has doubtless come to the same conclusion. Thomas F. McLarty 3d, his childhood friend, was admired in the White House for his congenial nature. But he was a corporate executive from Arkansas who knew neither the policy nor the players of Washington, and that proved to be his downfall.
"Clinton knew Mac's shortcomings, but he wanted him to be basically a doorkeeper," a senior White House official said. "Now he sees he needs something more than a friend who can organize the staff and his schedule."
By contrast, few people in Washington and certainly no one in the Clinton Administration has more of a grasp of the intricacies of Government policy than Leon E. Panetta. The main job description of the budget director is to master the details. And from his 16 years in Congress, Mr. Panetta has a wealth of friends and experience in the ways of the capital and election-year politics.
But merely being an insider is no guarantee of success. There is no assurance that Mr. Panetta's knowledge and experience can do what Mr. Clinton hopes, namely repair the Administration's image inside and outside Washington.
Mr. Clinton would like to dispel the notion around the country that the White House is a chaotic operation in which decisions are made largely on impulse. And he would like someone in charge of the staff who can direct all the energy here in the capital toward passing his legislative agenda, particularly his health care bill.
Mr. McLarty is not identified with any particular Administration policy. In fact, the only times he seemed to surface publicly was to take the blame for some misstep by the staff, as when staff members used an official plane this spring for a golf outing. In each case, Mr. McLarty took the blame, though he was probably not personally at fault, and promised that the mistake would not be repeated.
The most a chief of staff can do, said Charles O. Jones, the president of the American Political Science Association and author of a new book, "The Presidency in a Separated System," is to be "an intermediary between the President and what he wants and the rest of the Government."
Dismissing the chief of staff when things seem to be going awry within an Administration is nothing new. It is comparable to the way the manager is the first to go when a baseball team begins to lose.
Sometimes it works. Ronald Reagan sacked Donald T. Regan in 1987 when his Presidency was reeling from Iran-contra disclosures. Mr. Regan's replacement, Howard H. Baker Jr., provided a steady hand that helped put the Administration back on course, at least in terms of the public's perception. The move was instrumental in Mr. Reagan's restoring his popularity, which helped George Bush win the 1988 election.
 
Paralysis of Government
 But other times, it makes no difference who the chief of staff is. Mr. Bush dismissed John H. Sununu in December 1991, and nine months later, when his Presidency still seemed to be in trouble, Mr. Bush sent Mr. Sununu's successor, Samuel M. Skinner, packing and replaced him with James Baker, who had been Mr. Reagan's first chief of staff. Neither move changed the public's view that Mr. Bush's economic and domestic policies were misguided, a notion that probably cost him re-election.
The immediate effect of today's switch could be a few weeks of inaction at a particularly delicate moment in the development of health care legislation. People who have worked in the White House in other Administrations say that the Government is often nearly paralyzed for a month or two when a new chief of staff moves in while staff assistants jockey for position in the new regime.
That may not happen this time because Mr. Panetta is already well known by others in the Administration and because Mr. McLarty was not influential in making health policy. But it is certainly a risk.
If everything works right, White House officials said today, the staff shake-up could help the President in several ways.
Up till now, Mr. Clinton has basically functioned as his own chief of staff, at least as far as policy making is concerned. The one area where he has delegated the authority is in health care, and here it was to his wife, Hillary. In Mr. Panetta, he will have someone he trusts at his right hand to help him make the final call on Administration policy.
Mr. McLarty's most important role from now on, he said in an interview, will be First Friend -- someone who can tell the President without varnish what he needs to hear, however unpleasant the news. Except for Mrs. Clinton, no one thus far has been able to do that, one senior official said.
 
Shift of Gergen
 And by moving to the State Department, David R. Gergen, whose expertise is molding public opinion, can now take on the task of explaining how the Clinton foreign policy makes sense. Foreign affairs is normally one of the least partisan aspects of a Presidency. Mr. Gergen, a fixture under Republican Presidents, is obviously admired by Mr. Clinton, but he was resented in the political cauldron of the White House.
Whether all this works out or not, it is not likely to make or break the Clinton Presidency. The value of a chief of staff, said Mr. Fitzwater, is measured entirely by whether his President is successful.
And a President's success or failure, as Mr. Bush learned, eventually rests on his own shoulders.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 2, 1994, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
A chart on Tuesday listing White House chiefs of staff and their years of service misstated the starting date for Hamilton Jordan. He was President Jimmy Carter's chief of staff from July 1979 to June 1980; he did not start in January 1977.


GRAPHIC: Chiefs of staff and their tenures.
 
PRESIDENT: Jimmy Carter
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Hamilton Jordon
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Jan. 1977-June 1980 (41)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Jack H. Watson Jr.
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): June 1980-Jan. 1981 (17)
 
PRESIDENT: Ronald Reagan
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: James A. Baker j3d
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Jan. 1981-Feb. 1985 (49)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Donald T. Regan
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Feb. 1985-Feb. 1987 (24)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Howard H. Baker Jr.
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Feb. 1987-July 1988 (16)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Kenneth Duberstein
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): July 1988-Jan. 1989 (7)
 
PRESIDENT: George Bush
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: John H. Sununu
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Jan. 1989-Dec. 1991 (35)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Samuel K. Skinner
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Dec. 1991-Aug. 1992 (8)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: James A. Baker 3d
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Aug. 1992-Jan. 1993 (5)
 
PRESIDENT: Bill Clinton
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Thomas F. McLarty 3d
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): Jan. 1993-June 1994 (17)
 
CHIEF OF STAFF: Leon Panetta
LENGTH OF STAY (MONTHS): June 1994
 
(pg. A12)
Chart: "A LOOK BACK: Right-Hand Men"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

COMPANY: A BETTER CHANCE (58%); A BETTER CHANCE (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: A BETTER CHANCE (58%); A BETTER CHANCE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); POLITICS (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); JOB DESCRIPTIONS (77%); WRITERS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (66%); BUDGETS (65%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E; MCLARTY, THOMAS F 3D; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PANETTA, LEON E (DIR) RONALD REAGAN (93%); JOEL V STAFF (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); LEON E PANETTA (90%); JIMMY CARTER (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1994



670 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 28, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 835 words

HEADLINE: THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE: THE DETAILS;
Study Criticizes Subsidy For Insurance for Poor

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 27

 BODY:
A new study finds serious, unsuspected problems with many proposals for the Federal Government to help low-income people buy private health insurance by subsidizing their premiums.
 Such subsidies are a feature of most of the health insurance bills being considered in Congress. Subsidies have been suggested as a way to make sure that all Americans obtain health insurance, with or without a requirement that employers contribute to the cost of workers' coverage. 
But the study, issued today by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a nonpartisan research institute, says that if subsidies are not carefully designed they will discourage people from working and may encourage companies to drop health insurance they now provide to employees.
 Moreover, the study, which looked at all proposals, says there are serious problems in plans to limit the amount the Government could spend on subsidies in any year: "they make no adjustment for recessions."
 
Problems of Recessions
 To stay within the spending limits, the study says, subsidies would be reduced at the very moment when the need was greatest, in recessions, as the numbers of poor and unemployed people rose.
 Government subsidies to help people buy insurance have been in health plans proposed by President Clinton; Representative Jim Cooper, Democrat of Tennessee; Senator John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, and Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts. Spending on such subsidies would be subject to limits set by Congress. None of the proposals would increase the spending limits in time of recession.
 Robert Greenstein, director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, said the cost of subsidies would be much higher if there was no requirement for employers to pay any of the premiums for their workers. But, he observed, in the absence of an employer mandate, companies would have "powerful incentives" to drop coverage for their employees and to shift costs to the Government, which would subsidize the premiums.
 
On Providing Subsidies
 Describing what would happen without an employer mandate, Mr. Greenstein said the study found: "Employers could terminate coverage without jeopardizing poor workers. The workers would continue receiving similar coverage, with their premiums fully paid by the public subsidy system."
 Moreover, it says, "Firms that employ large numbers of low-income workers would be able to make themselves and their employees better off by terminating health coverage and converting some or all of the savings into higher wages or other employee benefits."
 Mr. Cooper defended his proposal, saying, "It is essential that health care reform include subsidies to make coverage affordable for low-income people."
 The study says that the proposed subsidies will become extremely expensive if they are available to large numbers of people in middle-income families. On the other hand, it says, if the subsidies decline sharply as earnings rise, they may discourage people from trying to earn more, especially people with incomes between the poverty level and twice that amount ($15,000 to $30,000 a year for a family of four). In other words they would lose their benefits and be subjected to more taxes as well.
 
Gradual Phasing Down Urged
 People just above the poverty level already pay a high "tax" on additional earnings because they may lose food stamps, tax credits and other benefits as their incomes rise.
 Thus, the study concludes: "Low-income subsidies should be phased down very gradually. Otherwise, incentives to work will be weakened too much."
 A family of four is classified as poor by the Government if it had cash income less than $14,764 in 1993. For each additional dollar earned, the report says, a family of four that has income 25 percent above the poverty level and receives food stamps would lose a total of 76 cents under the Clinton proposal, 78 cents under the Kennedy proposal, 90 cents under the Chafee proposal and 95 cents under the Cooper proposal.
 Put another way, such a family would keep 24 cents of each additional dollar earned under the Clinton proposal, but only 5 cents of each additional dollar under the Cooper proposal.
 
The Use of Overtime
 Such high marginal tax rates could easily discourage extra work effort because people would keep relatively little of their additional earnings, the report says.
 Mr. Greenstein said that an employer mandate could also have some unintended effects. For example, he said, it would create incentives for companies to make greater use of overtime by full-time workers, rather than hiring additional employees. "Use of overtime does not increase health care premium costs, while hiring new employees would do so," he said.
 The study by the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities examines the effects of subsidies on people at different income levels. The work of the center was assisted by a grant of $20,000 from the Henry J. Kaiser Family Foundation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; CORPORATIONS; REFORM AND
REORGANIZATION HEALTH INSURANCE (93%); RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (73%); FAMILY (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (58%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT TED KENNEDY (58%); JIM COOPER (57%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1994



671 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE;
Virginia's Candidates for Senate Debate, Making Cases to Tough Audience of Voters

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
In a lively free-for-all on worldwide television tonight, the four candidates running for the United States Senate from Virginia clashed in their first joint debate over issues like character, crime and foreign policy.
Reopening old feuds and probably creating new ones, Senator Charles S. Robb and the three candidates who want his seat took the opportunity on CNN's "Larry King Live" to make their cases. 
 Mr. Robb, the Democratic nominee, repeatedly cited his ties to the White House and his ability to work closely with President Clinton. Oliver L. North, the Republican nominee who is best known for his involvement in the Iran-contra affair while working in the Reagan White House, declared that he was the only one of the four who had not spent his "entire life running for office."
Former Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, a Democrat who entered the race as an independent, accused Mr. Robb of being too close to Mr. Clinton and supporting economic policies that hurt the Virginia economy. Another independent candidate, J. Marshall Coleman, a Republican who is a former state Attorney General, went after Mr. North. Mr. Coleman repeatedly said that he could work closely with the state's senior Senator, John W. Warner, a Republican who has refused to endorse Mr. North and is backing Mr. Coleman.
 
The Character Issue
 Both nominees, Mr. Robb and Mr. North, have drawn opposition from within their parties because they are are seen as relatively unpopular in the state and particularly vulnerable on character issues. Mr. Robb has acknowledged marital indiscretions, and Mr. North was found to have lied to the Congress on his role in the Iran-contra matter, although his conviction was overturned on a technicality.
But only Mr. Coleman took up the character issue directly, near the close of the 90-minute program. Responding to a caller from Louisville, Ky., he said, referring to Mr. North: "I think ethics are an issue. This is an issue the people of Virginia need to resolve. I do not think the person to my left is someone we ought to vote for to be in the Senate. He has not set the kind of example we want to set."
Mr. North snapped back: "Oh, come on." He added, "From a guy who has changed his position more often than anybody I know, you ought to get whiplash."
Asked about his character, Mr. Robb said only that "I had some dents in my armor." But he said that "the Almighty forgave me," as did his wife, Lynda Bird.
 
Wilder Versus Robb
 On the Democratic side, Mr. Wilder agreed that character was an issue, but, in assailing Mr. Robb, he concentrated on the one-term Senator's support of Mr. Clinton's economic plan, which raised some taxes, and for his vote to confirm Clarence Thomas to the Supreme Court. "Either you support the rights of women or you don't," Mr. Wilder said to Mr. Robb. "Either you support minorities or you don't."
"Wait a minute," Mr. Robb retorted. "You supported him at one point." The Senator defended his vote on Mr. Thomas and said he had the best record on women's issues of any candidate.
Just the sight of the four candidates sitting shoulder to shoulder in a half-circle made for a spirited program. Unlike the others, who wore suits, Mr. North appeared in shirtsleeves, probably to present himself as a Washington outsider.
Except for an occasional slight, there was relatively little back and forth between the two party nominees. At one point, after Mr. North said he would not support the crime bill before Congress, Mr. Robb asserted, "First of all, Ollie, I recommend that you read the bill."
The fact that Larry King extended his program by 30 minutes to broadcast a Senate debate involving a single state demonstrated the intense interest in the race beyond Virginia. One caller during the second half was from Kissii, Kenya.
The program had its share of odd moments. One of the breaks was for a North commercial. And, after Mr. Wilder admonished the other candidates for accepting out-of-state donations, he blurted out his own toll-free number and appealed for contributions from around the country.
The race is generally viewed as wide open for any of the candidates, although a new Washington Post poll found that at this early stage in the race, Mr. Robb held a comfortable lead, with support from 36 percent of those polled, followed by Mr. North, with 26 percent. Mr. Wilder trailed with 17 percent, while Mr. Coleman received 13 percent. The survey was a telephone poll of 1,000 registered voters in Virginia conducted June 19-23. The poll's sampling error was plus or minus 3 percentage points.
Some of the most interesting responses came when a caller asked the four men to say which candidate they would vote for if they were not in the race. Mr. Robb, who responded first, grudgingly said he would vote for Mr. Wilder, his old nemesis, mainly because Mr. Wilder has traditionally been a Democrat. But Mr. Wilder refused to return the favor and would not say whom he would support. Mr. Coleman also refused to answer the question. Mr. North dodged the question by saying he would have voted for James Miller 3d, whom he defeated for the Republican nomination.
Mr. North said he had "high hopes" that former President Ronald Reagan would endorse him, although Mr. Reagan put out a letter this spring accusing Mr. North of misstating his role in about Iran-contra.
"Don't hold your breath," Mr. Coleman responded to Mr. North.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: LARRY KING LIVE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE (US)

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA; UNITED STATES (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (95%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; DEBATING; TELEVISION ; ELECTION ISSUES LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (77%); ETHICS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L; ROBB, CHARLES S (SEN); COLEMAN, J MARSHALL; NORTH, OLIVER L; WILDER, L DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); CLARENCE THOMAS (58%); JOHN WARNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



672 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE: NEGOTIATIONS;
2 Senate Leaders Propose Health Plans

BYLINE: By ADAM CLYMER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
Two major Senate players on health care legislation today laid out their own long-awaited legislative proposals but without strong hopes that the Senate Finance Committee would accept their main ideas.
When the committee meets on Wednesday afternoon, its chairman, Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, will put his proposal before it. The New York Democrat's plan would require employers to pay for their workers' insurance if other steps did not produce universal coverage by 1999. That provision appears to have a committee majority against it. 
 Asked what he would do if his plan was defeated, Mr. Moynihan said, "Let's find out whether we can't win."
Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican leader, put out a tentative draft proposal that would emphasize changes in insurance laws but that also would provide $100 billion over five years in subsidies to help the poor buy insurance.
 
Differences in 2 Plans
 Mr. Dole's plan rejects the employer-paid insurance that is central to President Clinton's proposal to insure all Americans and is in most Democratic bills. It includes no requirements that anyone buy insurance, though like every other bill it seeks to make insurance easier to purchase.
Neither leader can count on the support of all members of his own party in the committee. A group of moderate Democrats and Republicans offered its own plan last week, and substantial parts of that plan reappear in both the Moynihan and Dole measures. The moderates are likely to oppose both plans, holding that the Dole plan does not go far enough and that the Moynihan bill goes too far.
Mr. Moynihan today attributed his difficulties to this alliance of more conservative Democrats and more liberal Republicans. He said his fallback requirement for employers to buy insurance for their workers "had the votes a month ago, but the coming together of the two groups makes it very chancy."
"It's close," he said. "We'll find out."
The leaders of that group of six, Senators John H. Chafee, Republican of Rhode Island, and John B. Breaux, Democrat of Louisiana, met with their colleagues this evening to plot how to advance their proposal if Mr. Moynihan's fails.
Mr. Dole was not committed to offering his proposal before the committee. He called a caucus of Republican Senators to discuss it at 8 A.M. Wednesday. But because some Republicans would probably vote against it in committee, he may not offer it there at all.
The Dole plan would provide subsidies for low-income people to buy a Government-designed package of benefits. People at or below the poverty level would receive full premium subsidies; smaller subsidies would be offered to people whose income was up to 150 percent of the poverty level. Mr. Dole proposed to pay for his plan by raising the Medicare tax on people with high incomes, slowing the rate of growth of Medicaid spending and additional "Medicare savings (to be determined)."
 
Dole on the Attack
 Senator Dole, who has complained about President and Mrs. Clinton's criticism of Congress for accepting Government contributions to its health insurance while refusing to vote for employers' contributions for all Americans, struck back in his plan. He proposed eliminating the Government payments for insurance for the President (but not the Vice President), all members of Congress and the Cabinet, and political appointees confirmed by the Senate.
The Moynihan plan's central element of requiring employers to pay for 80 percent of their workers' insurance would take effect gradually. If, by 1997, insurance coverage for workers, and their dependents, at companies employing 100 or more people did not rise to 98 percent from the current 89 percent, then all employers in that category would have to insure their workers.
For employers of 25 to 99 workers, insurance coverage would have to rise to 96 percent from the current 79 percent by 1998, or the companies would have to insure workers and their dependents.
Finally, employers of fewer than 25 workers would have until 1999 to raise the coverage level to 93 percent from the current 74 percent. If that did not happen, they would have to provide insurance.
The Moynihan bill would provide subsidies to low-income individuals and families and to small businesses to help pay for premiums. To pay for them, it would raise the tax on a pack of cigarettes to $2, and, as would Mr. Dole's measure, it would raise Medicare premiums for individuals making more than $90,000 and families making more than $115,000.
Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts, chairman of the Senate Labor and Human Resources Committee, and leaders of 14 black organizations held a news conference today to announce support for universal coverage. They contended that 55 percent of black Americans were either uninsured or underinsured.
The groups promised to lobby members of the House and Senate, a tactic that is likely to get the attention of Democrats, especially in the South, who depend on black votes to win.
 
Disappointment for Dingell
 Another committee chairman, Representative John D. Dingell of Michigan, officially gave up any effort to draw up a bill in the Energy and Commerce Committee, which he heads. Mr. Dingell, one of the House's most skilled deal makers and a passionate advocate of national health insurance, could not overcome united Republican opposition to any bill requiring employer payments.
In a letter to the House Speaker, Thomas S. Foley of Washington, Mr. Dingell promised to help develop legislation and work with leaders of other committees. Mr. Dingell called his decision a disappointment. He has championed national health insurance since he came to the House in 1955, succeeding his father, also Representative John D. Dingell, who introduced the first national health insurance bill in the House in 1943.
The House Ways and Means Committee, continuing work on a comprehensive bill, endorsed the idea of price controls on the cost of doctors, hospitals and prescription drugs if spending exceeded certain amounts. Under the plan, the Federal Government would set annual spending goals for each state. The price controls would take effect in 2001 and later years in any state exceeding its goal.
Representative Michael A. Andrews, Democrat of Texas, tried but failed, on a vote of 20 to 18, to eliminate the price controls idea.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Bob Dole, at left, has drafted a tentative health insurance plan that would not require employers to pay the premiums. He could present the proposal at today's Republican caucus. He is shown here with Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison and John H. Chafee at yesterday's G.O.P. meeting. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); The Senate Finance Committee is expected to take up a proposal today that would require companies to buy workers' insurance if that was necessary to get universal coverage. Hillary Rodham Clinton tried to convince the Economic Club of Washington yesterday that a plan like that would be good business. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)
 
Chart: "IN BRIEF: The Debate Over Health Care"
 
DEVELOPMENTS YESTERDAY
 
Congressional committees continue their efforts to move legislation forward for debate in the full House and Senate.
 
Congress
 
The Senate: A Moynihan Proposal . . .
 
Sponsor -- Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Democrat of New York, chairman of the Senate Finance Committee.
 
Highlights -- Senator Maynihan's second variation on the Clinton plan. Among other things, it would require employers to provide insurance for their workers if industry reforms did not meet universal coverage goals by 1999
 
. . . And a Dole Alternative
 
Sponsor -- Senator Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, the minority leader and a member of the Finance Committee.
 
Highlights -- Would make changes in insurance regulation to make coverage easier to obtain, and offer subsidies to help the poor purchase it.
 
The House -- Representative John D. Dingell, Democrat of Michigan, the chairman of the Energy and Commerce Committee and a passionate advocate of guaranteed health care, announced that he had given up any attempt to pass a bill in his deadlocked committee. Democrats on the House Ways and Means Committee caucused through the day on another proposal, especially its cost-control provisions.
 
The White House -- Hillary Rodham Clinton addressed the Economic Club of Washington, a business group, and predicted that if Congress did not approve a Clinton-style plan, a grass-roots movement will force Congress to enact Government-paid health care.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (66%); REPUBLICAN OF RHODE ISLAND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE FINANCE COMMITTEE (66%); REPUBLICAN OF RHODE ISLAND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; CORPORATIONS LEGISLATION (91%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); INSURANCE (76%); CONSERVATISM (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); MEDICARE (62%); 

PERSON: MOYNIHAN, DANIEL PATRICK (SEN); DOLE, ROBERT J (SEN); CLYMER, ADAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (92%); JOHN DINGELL (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



673 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Again Falls Below 100-Yen Level

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The dollar fell to another record low against the Japanese yen in Asian trading today.
The decline came even though the Bank of Japan intervened in the currency market to support the dollar and despite Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bensten's renewed promise of support for a stronger American currency. 
 In Tokyo this morning, the dollar hit a new post-World War II low of 99.10 yen. Traders said the Japanese central bank began buying dollars for yen after the dollar fell below the previous low of 99.50 yen.
The Asian selling came at about the same time that Mr. Bentsen spoke to the Foreign Policy Association in New York yesterday evening. "We believe a stronger dollar is better for our economy and better for the world's economy," he said.
In his remarks, Mr. Bentsen denied that the Clinton Administration still wanted a weaker dollar as leverage against the Japanese in bilateral trade talks.
"Let me say clearly -- and I speak for the entire Administration -- this is not the case," he said. "The dollar is not a tool of our trade policy."
But some traders in Tokyo apparently remained unconvinced of the United States' resolve to support the dollar. The Federal Reserve has been absent from the currency market so far this week, after a concerted round of intervention on Friday failed to push up the dollar.
By the afternoon in Tokyo today, the dollar was quoted at 99.35 yen. In New York late yesterday, the dollar had ended trading at 100.02 yen, down from 100.45 yen late Monday.
The dollar also moved lower against the German mark, but in a broad trading range. Some dealers said the wider range suggested that the market was prepared to take the dollar lower against the mark.
The dollar was last quoted at 1.5787 marks in New York late yesterday, down from 1.5840 late Monday. In afternoon trading in Tokyo today, it was quoted at 1.5745 marks.
"For the moment, the dollar doesn't look wrongly valued" against the yen, said Richard E. Witten, a partner at Goldman, Sachs & Company. "But the feeling in the marketplace is that the dollar can continue to decline against the European currencies."
Referring to the central banks, Mr. Witten said, "There does not appear to be any significant interest on either side of the Atlantic if the dollar declines as much as another 5 percent against the mark."
Such a drop would send the dollar down to about 1.50 marks.
Trading has been light so far this week, and some currency traders say the selling pressure on the dollar may be beginning to ease for now.
In part, yesterday's bout of weakness was caused by fresh signs of strength in the American economy, signs that at another time might have tended to bolster the dollar's value.
Strong underlying growth in the economy tends to raise the currency's value relative to others, especially those of countries whose economies are not growing as rapidly. At the moment, the United States economy is expanding at a much more rapid clip than those of its leading trading partners, including Japan and Germany.
 
Still Some Uncertainty
 But there is considerable uncertainty about economic growth in the United States and in other leading industrialized countries. In addition, financial markets are worried about how the Federal Reserve and other big central banks will respond to coming economic reports.
Lately, the nervousness has been manifested most clearly in the foreign exchange market, where the dollar has weakened despite attempts by central banks to shore up its value.
Despite the relative stability of the dollar early this week, dealers and analysts say the currency may still face some turbulent days.
"There is no sense that there is a big change in market sentiment or that there has been a permanent standoff" between foreign exchange traders and the central banks, said John Lipsky, chief economist for Salomon Brothers. "The next few weeks will be immensely complicated."
The run-up to the Fourth of July holiday will probably act as a further depressant to trading activity this week.
But next week, the Fed's policy-making Open Market Committee will hold an important meeting to determine the course of interest rates, and the Government will release June's employment data, which are expected to give indications of whether economic growth is too fast or too slow.
 
Finance Minister to Meet
 In addition, the finance ministers from the Group of Seven industrial nations will meet in Naples to discuss the dollar, among other matters.
Traders said they expected the finance ministers to make comments about the recent upheaval in the currency markets before the Group of Seven meeting, and the market could move on the comments.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); BANK OF JAPAN (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF JAPAN; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); ASIA (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; RECORDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS CURRENCIES (95%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); WORLD WAR II (56%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (53%); 

PERSON: BENTSEN, LLOYD (SEC); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



674 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Business Technology
 Freedom of expression has always ruled in cyberspace. But the companies that control the computer networks, and some individuals, are beginning to play the role of censor. [Page A1.] 
 United Technologies has developed a flywheel battery that, among other virtues, would give an electric car greater bursts of power and a longer range before recharging. [D1.]
 Companies National Medical Enterprises said it would plead guilty to paying kickbacks and bribes for referrals and would pay $362.7 million in a settlement with the Government. [D1.]
General Motors made several executive shifts at its North American automotive operations, showing a willingness to trade seniority for perceived ability. [D1.]
Metropolitan Life is being investigated by the U.S. Attorney's office in Tampa, Fla., state officials said. [D2.]
St. Jude Medical, a maker of heart valves, agreed to acquire the cardiac device business of Siemens for $500 million. [D4.]
Mobil plans to reduce jobs in its chemical operations by a fifth. The company will also take a charge of $315 million. [D4.]
Daimler-Benz is expected to name the head of its aerospace division to succeed Edzard Reuter as chairman. [D4.]
Bergdorf Goodman abruptly eliminated the position of fashion director, putting Ellin Saltzman out of a job. [D4.]
Unocal has put its California oil and gas assets up for sale. The company plans to use the money to invest overseas. [D4.]
Viacom's deadline for first bids for Madison Square Garden, the New York Knicks and New York Rangers passed. [D17.]
Two Western electric and gas utilities agreed to merge in a deal that would form a company with assets of $3.4 billion. [D17.]
 International Brazilian coffee growers tried to assess the damage from a cold snap that destroyed about a third of next year's crop, causing coffee prices to soar on world commodity markets. [D1.]
Japan announced a plan aimed at eliminating dozens of arcane regulations that have irked trading partners. [D2.]
 
The Economy
 Home sales surged 4.2 percent in May to the briskest pace of the year, apparently shrugging off a rise in mortgage rates. The Conference Board's confidence index advanced. [D1.]
The House approved legislation that would permit greater competition between local and long-distance telephone companies, as well as between telephone and cable television. [D2.]
The F.D.A. Commissioner said he hoped to avoid a ban on cigarettes, as health officials and tobacco executives moved toward agreement that some regulation is needed. [A1.]
 
Markets
 The dollar fell to another record low against the Japanese yen in Asian trading. [D1.]
 Blue-chip stocks retreated from a strong gain on Monday. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 15.86 points. [D6.]
Grain prices rose sharply on forecasts for hot and dry weather in the Midwest. Copper prices fell. [D13.]
Prices of Treasury securities declined. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
 Higher interest rates have scared investors off financial services companies. But mortgage insurers are unlikely to be hurt by higher rates because there are still plenty of first-time home buyers to add to the pool of people paying premiums. Market Place. [D6.]
Mr. Jenkins, a raffish sport, is the star of a new campaign for Tanqueray gin. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%); UTX (NYSE) (58%); THC (NYSE) (57%); GM (NYSE) (57%); STJ (NYSE) (56%); VIA (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS623311 CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT COMMUNITIES (57%); NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (57%); NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (57%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (58%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (58%); TENET HEALTHCARE CORP (57%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); ST JUDE MEDICAL INC (56%); VIACOM INC (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); NEW YORK RANGERS (54%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CENSORSHIP (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); PRICE INCREASES (85%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (75%); US DOLLAR (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); COMMODITIES TRADING (74%); COFFEE MARKETS (74%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (74%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); CARDIOVASCULAR DEVICES (73%); MERGERS (73%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (73%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (72%); REAL ESTATE (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (71%); HOUSING MARKET (70%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (69%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (68%); COFFEE FARMING (68%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (68%); COFFEE (68%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (66%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (65%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (65%); LEGISLATION (64%); COPPER MARKETS (62%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (57%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



675 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: 2 KOREAS SET DATE FOR FIRST MEETING OF THEIR LEADERS

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 28

 BODY:
North and South Korea agreed today to a three-day summit meeting starting on July 25 in Pyongyang, the North Korean capital. It would be the first meeting of the top leaders of the two countries since the Korean Peninsula was divided in 1945.
The North and the South announced agreement in principle last week for a summit meeting between South Korea's first civilian President in more than three decades, Kim Young Sam, and North Korea's 82-year-old dictator, Kim Il Sung. But the setting of a date today substantially increases the prospect that the meeting will take place. 
 At that meeting, South Korean officials said, the date and location of a second summit meeting, likely in the South, is to be negotiated.
Today's accord came in a meeting that was remarkably free of bitterness, given the continuing accusations over the considerable evidence that North Korea is trying to build nuclear weapons. The meeting was at the border village of Panmunjom, along the Demilitarized Zone where the armistice was declared in the Korean War 41 years ago.
Only three months ago, at the same table, a North Korean official was threatening to turn Seoul, 30 miles to the south, into a "sea of fire" for bringing international pressure and the threat of sanctions against the North for its failure to open its nuclear sites to international inspectors.
Many in South Korea have been deeply suspicious of whether the North's suddenly cooperative, friendly behavior is sincere, a result of the new openings former President Jimmy Carter appears to have made during his trip to Pyongyang 10 days ago, or whether it is merely another attempt to stall for time.
The speed with which the two sides settled the details of the meeting, with few of the angry exchanges that usually punctuate such discussions, suggest that both sides were eager to capitalize on Mr. Carter's trip.
The agenda was not defined, and it is likely to be affected by the outcome of a crucial meeting between the United States and the North on July 8 to discuss the nuclear issue.
There are a range of long-pending issues between the North and South, including opening the border for visits of families that have been divided for more than 40 years, economic cooperation and possible steps to lower troop levels and tensions.
 
Nuclear Issue in Foreground
 Resolution of most of the issues is likely to depend on steady progress on the nuclear disagreement.
For Kim Il Sung, now the world's longest-serving leader, it is a political triumph: the leader of the South will be coming to treat him as an equal in his own capital.
For Kim Young Sam, it is an equally rich moment. Millions of South Koreans have relatives in the North, and seeing Seoul's leader in Pyongyang will clearly give many hope that Asia's Berlin Wall is falling.
If the summit meeting is successful, it will also redeem Mr. Carter, whose travels to Pyongyang earlier this month were a source of constant controversy. Mr. Carter emerged declaring that the "nuclear crisis is over" and that his two days of talks with the Communist leader had been a "miracle."
Many of Mr. Carter's critics suggested that he was naive in seeming to accept everything that Kim Il Sung said so uncritically. But others suggest that he was shrewdly trying to box the North in and make Mr. Kim's aides carry through on whatever the "Great Leader" declares.
Leaders of the two Koreas have never met since the peninsula was divided in 1945, though they have talked about it periodically since 1972. But there is considerable wariness on both sides that the meeting could turn from a celebration of Korean brotherhood to another bitter argument between two countries still technically at war.
 
Criticism of Site
 Already there are charges that Seoul has caved in to the North. Chosun Ilbo, South Korea's leading newspaper, suggested in an editorial that the South's President was being manipulated by the North and should not have agreed to allow the first summit meeting to occur in Pyongyang rather than some neutral location.
Until now, the highest-level contacts were a series of meetings between the Prime Ministers of North and South Korea in 1990 and 1991, culminating in an agreement to remove all nuclear weapons from the Korean Peninsula and establish greater contacts among the people of the divided country.
The denuclearization agreement also bans reprocessing of nuclear fuel on either side, yet the North has built an extensive reprocessing plant.
The July 25 meeting is to follow the high-level meeting of American and North Korean officials, to begin on July 8 in Geneva. That meeting, set up by Mr. Carter, will discuss North Korea's willingness to open up to full nuclear inspection in return for a package deal of economic and diplomatic incentives.
North Korea has agreed to a temporary freeze on its nuclear development activity while the talks are on, including the transporting of spent fuel rods from a nuclear reactor to a reprocessing plant, where bomb-grade plutonium could be extracted.
 
Step Toward Reconciliation
 In contrast, the goals of the North-South meeting are likely to be more symbolic: a step toward national reconciliation after a half-century of conflict. North Korea's chief representative at today's meeting, Kim Young Sun, said to his South Korean counterpart, Lee Hong Koo, that the meeting would bring "bright hopes of reunification in the 1990's."
In fact, reunification is one topic both men are expected to steer gingerly around, because they have widely differing views of how it may take place, and on whose terms.
As he arrived at the meeting site today, Lee Hong Koo, South Korea's Unification Minister and Deputy Prime Minister, told his Northern counterparts that he hoped that the six-lane highway he had taken to the Demilitarized Zone would soon be extended to Pyongyang. The North Korean delegation smiled, but said nothing about opening up their society not only to the South's vehicles, but to its wealth and its ideas.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

COMPANY: NORTH & SOUTH RAILWAYS LTD (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; SOUTH KOREA; KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); 

SUBJECT: NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SOUTH KOREA; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (88%); KOREAN WAR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); TRENDS (70%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); MILITARY WEAPONS (53%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



676 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1746 words

HEADLINE: Enduring Crises to Graduation Day;
New York High School Seniors Turn Tassels and Toss Books

BYLINE: By CHARISSE JONES 

 BODY:
In the years it took to reach her graduation day, Catherine Williams had a baby and named him Duvall. She peeked at him between classes, cuddled him while doing homework, and now, after long days and bookish summers, is preparing to go off to a community college.
In the years it took Flora Tartakovsky to don her cap and gown, she worked her summers away in a hospital and did medical research worthy of a national prize. Now, the 18-year-old, born in Ukraine and raised in Queens is preparing to leave for Harvard. 
 And a young man named Gregory Zieba will lay down his school books and search for work, because he would rather his family send his sister to college than spend their limited resources on him.
In ceremonies that culminated yesterday -- the last day of school for New York City's public schools -- some 34,000 high school seniors turned their tassels, tossed their books and crossed a threshold that separates childhood from the grown-up world.
They are what remain of the more than 80,000 students who entered high school in 1990. On average, less than 40 percent complete their secondary education within four years. Some of this week's graduates include students who have spent five, six or seven years in high school. Literally thousands of others drop out or move away.
To paint a picture of these graduates' high school years is to speak of rising enrollment and shrinking classrooms, of deep budget cuts and crumbling schools. Indeed, their senior year began and ended two weeks late because of an asbestos crisis last fall. To sketch their future is to show an ever more demanding job market, and college fees that for too many will be too high. Yet a portrait of their faces is more hopeful.
If, as state education officials say, the percentage of students who plan to go on to higher education is roughly the same this year as last, about 19,000 students will attend a four-year college and roughly 7,000 students will attend a two-year college. About 700 will go to technical training schools.
Most will take advantage of public institutions here in New York, with 41 percent saying they would attend a school in the City University of New York system, and another 12 percent planning to go to college within the State University of New York system, said Robert Terte, a Board of Education spokesman.
Precise statistics will not become available until August.
The high number of students planning to go to college belies the low expectations some have of the New York City school system. The reality, said Peter Caruso of the New York State Education Department, is "if the kids stay in school long enough to get to the 12th grade, most go on and graduate and go to college."
The City University of New York, which charges a maximum annual tuition of $2,450 for New York residents, expects 57 percent of its first-time freshmen this fall to come from the city's public schools, said a spokeswoman, Rita Rodin.
 
Enlisting or Working
 "It's always been a door to a better life," Ms. Rodin said of CUNY, noting that the system's open-admission policy guarantees a place to all students with a high school diploma. "For many students who can't afford higher tuition, it is their only chance for higher education."
Of those not planning to go to college last year, 1.5 percent said they were going into the military, and 6.8 percent said they had either already found work or were looking for jobs, Mr. Terte said. About 9 percent said they had other plans, while 4.1 percent did not respond.
Whatever their plans, this year's graduates have weathered changes and crises in high school. In four years, enrollment in the nation's largest school system crept above one million, filling many of the students' classrooms to capacity and putting an extra burden on their teachers. Three different chancellors held forth over the city's schools, and many students said they saw their books crumble and classes disappear as more than a billion dollars of the system's budget were chopped away.
Despite the singular challenges it endured, the class of 1994 is like many of years past. Within its ranks are three winners of the prestigious Westinghouse Science Talent Search, and hundreds of other students who fought the pull of the streets and lethargy of mediocre grades to make it to graduation day.
And like teen-agers everywhere who stand on the cusp of adulthood, there are those who approach the future with naive ambition, hoping that they can save the world -- or at least their own neighborhood.
Miriam Lora's dreams are rooted in a nightmare. The 17-year-old graduate of Brandeis High School said two people have been killed in front of her family's Bronx apartment building. So she wants to be an F.B.I. agent, and "take the criminals out of the street." She will attend the John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
Others, while giddy with the anticipation of new challenges, admit that they are feeling a little fear.
Annette Stamatelatos, 17, is an aspiring singer who said she was born with a song. So when she thinks of college, and life beyond, she envisions it as if it were a performance.
"I think of it like I'm going on stage," said Miss Stamatelatos, a graduate of John Bowne High School in Queens who will attend Queensborough Community College in the fall and hopes to eventually go to Juilliard. "I'm nervous, but sooner or later, I will get through it."
Eighteen-year-old Miss Tartakovsky knows she will be fine as well. But that does not make leaving home any easier.
Four years ago she was a freshman at the Bronx High School of Science. Two weeks ago, she was wearing a dress of green velvet and dancing at her prom. Today she is a high school graduate bound for Harvard.
 
Missing High School
 "The fact you're still considered a child," is one of the things she said she would miss most about high school. "Even when you do irresponsible things, they say: 'Hey, it's O.K. You're a teen-ager.' It's different in college. You have to bear a lot more responsibility for your actions."
A stellar student, Miss Tartakovsky won a $15,000 scholarship this year in the Westinghouse Science competition for her experiment on early detection of primary biliary cirrhosis, an inflammatory disease of the liver.
But despite her academic success, she said that she, like so many New York City students, did not escape mammoth budget cuts unscathed.
"Some of my books were literally in pieces," she said.
For some, the obstacles to graduation went far beyond a lack of textbooks.
Images of Miss Williams's twin struggles dot her Brooklyn apartment. On a wall there is a poster, "Be a Math Monster." On the window sill is a container of baby powder.
It took the 19-year-old six years to graduate from Springfield Gardens High School in Queens. When she was 15, her mother died. When she was 17, she had a baby.
She still must pass one more of the state regents competency tests required for all high school students to get their diplomas. But in the fall, she plans to enter a pre-nursing program at the Borough of Manhattan Community College.
 
'I Have to Get a Good Job'
 As a freshman, she failed every course. But two months after having her son she was back in Springfield, taking eight classes a day and participating in a Board of Education day-care program for teen-age mothers.
"The way I feel is if I'm not educated, how can I educate him?" she said. "So I got serious. I have to take care of him until he's good and grown. So I have to get a good job."
She would rise at 5:30 A.M., scramble out of the door by 7 and be in school by 8. She would drop Duvall in the school's nursery, and head to class, peeking in on him when she got the chance. Good-natured taunts from classmates laced her day. ("Cathy, how old are you now? 25?") But in January, she completed high school.
Mr. Zieba, 18, has made an adult's choice, though in many ways, he is a child still.
"I had a lot of time to think about it," said Mr. Zieba, who graduated last Friday from Automotive High School in Brooklyn. "In school, I haven't been a great student, and my sister is the third best student in her school. She really wants to go to college. It's better for my father's money to be spent on her than me."
So he will join thousands of other high school graduates who go straight from high school to the job market. It will not be easy, labor experts say.
"In New York it's not just finishing school that's an issue," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, middle-Atlantic regional commissioner for the United States Bureau of Labor Statistics. "It's your ability to take on additional training, to adapt to change. It just takes more to make it these days in the world of work and a lot of youngsters leave school with the bare minimum."
Though the bureau did not have statistics on how many New York City high school graduates who skip college end up unemployed, figures through March 1994 show that the rate of unemployment in the city for 16- to 19-year-olds was 36 percent compared with 19 percent nationally.
 
Joining the Marines
 Still, Mr. Zieba is optimistic. If you've got a job in car mechanics, water-proofing or carpentry, he'll take it.
There was one invaluable lesson he learned in the hallways of his school. One of four whites out of 1,100 students, Mr. Zieba once feared his fellow students would be unkind. But he found many friends, like Narindra Lakhicharran.
Mr. Lakhicharran, an immigrant from Guyana, has shiny black hair, and a movie star smile. But possibly as soon as next month, he will be in boot camp, watching his locks fall to the floor, and learning the rigors of being a marine.
"I don't have a choice to go straight to college because I have financial problems," said Mr. Lakhicharran, who plans to go back to school in 1995, with the military paying for his education.
Nixon Mendez hopes to go onto college one day as well. But he has yet to cross high school's finish line.
At 20, he is older than what many would expect a high school senior to be. He hoped to have graduated this year, but he must take three more classes in summer school before he can lay his hands on a diploma.
He is unsure of his destination. But the path to get there, he said, is clear. "When I first started, I thought I would just have fun," said the Brandeis High School student. "But I realized that that can't continue. So I decided to try and graduate."
Here's to the class of 1995.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A threshold to new responsibilities was crossed by some 34,000 graduating public high school students yesterday. At the commencement at Thomas Jefferson High School in Brooklyn, the pledge of allegiance was part of the ceremonies. (Ruby Washington/The New York Times) (pg. B1); Having a baby delayed her graduation from high school, but Catherine Williams hopes to enter a pre-nursing program at Manhattan Community College. She held her son, Duvall, 2, at their home in Brooklyn.;
Flora Tartakovsky won a $15,000 scholarship in a national science competition and is headed for Harvard. College is not a part of Gregory Zieba's plans, he thinks the money would be better spent on his sister, "the third best student in her school. She really wants to go to college." (pg. B2) (Dith Pran/The New York Times)
 
Graph: "CLOSEUP: Where Graduates Went" shows percentages of what the 33,760 New York City high school graduates in 1993 did after high school. (pg. B2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); UKRAINE (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK SYSTEMS EXCHANGE CORP (51%); CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (67%); NEW YORK STATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (67%); NEW YORK STATE EDUCATION DEPARTMENT (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); UKRAINE (72%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDUCATION (SECONDARY) HIGH SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (88%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); TEXTBOOKS (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); STUDENT EXPENSES (72%); BUDGETS (69%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (57%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); 

PERSON: JONES, CHARISSE RITA RODIN (56%); ROBERT TERTE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



677 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1643 words

HEADLINE: China Migrants: Economic Engine, Social Burden

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BEIJING, June 28

 BODY:
With his possessions bundled in plastic and hung from his shoulders, and his trousers rolled up to beat the heat, 30-year-old Ren Jun drifted into Beijing this month, part of a migrant tide of 50 million peasants that is threatening to swamp China's urban landscape.
To the Communist Party leadership, they are the engine of China, an inexhaustible supply of cheap labor, a floating population helping to build the country. They are one reason that 5,000 factories can be simultaneously under construction in China's coastal provinces. 
 But they also are becoming a huge and at times unstable and exploited force rampant on the fringes of China's overcrowded and polluted urban centers, where crime, corruption and unemployment threaten stability.
The migrants are easy to spot. Most large cities along China's coast have a million or two living in shanty towns, dormitories or public spaces. At Beijing's main railway station, a thousand migrants an hour pass through the green metal gates. And vast numbers of laborers like Mr. Ren appear each morning here at an impromptu labor market, hoping local coal-mine supervisors will pick them to work.
 
'A Positive Development'
 "So far, I think it has been quite a positive development," said Fan Gang, a leading economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. "It has helped to transfer wealth from rich to poor areas of the country."
Richard Baum, a political science professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, called the mobile population "a shock absorber" that can flow from one sector of the fast-changing economy to another "to cushion the transformation of the Chinese economy."
At the same time, today's migration could be the harbinger of an even greater one to come, Chinese and Western specialists say. With 130 million surplus workers in China's farm belt and a surge in population growth that will push that number to 200 million by 2000, China's migrants are an X factor in China's future.
"In five years, this could become a very big problem," Professor Fan said.
 
Estimate of 70 Million
 In March, Agriculture Minister Liu Jiang estimated that 50 million peasants had left their farms in 1993 to seek employment in the cities, more than double the 24 million who set off for the cities in 1992.
Some estimates put the "floating population" at 70 million to 100 million, said Dorothy Solinger, a China scholar at the University of California at Irvine. She also argued that the migrant problem "may not be as bleak as it is made out to sound."
"First, they are not all going to the big cities," she said. Many migrants simply move off farms into township enterprises nearby, or even far away, but not necessarily to large cities.
Second, she argued, where migrants do cluster, crime is the largest potential worry, not political rebellion. She pointed out that the Mayor of Zhuhai, the special economic zone adjoining Macao, recently said 75 percent of the crime in his city could be attributed to migrants.
But much is simply unknown, she said. The growth of the migrant phenomenon came from nowhere in a country that enforced rigid residency rules just a decade ago, making it impossible for peasants or city dwellers to stray from their work units.
What seems undisputed is that Pearl River delta in Guangdong Province has the largest concentration of migrants, an estimated 10 million. At least 500,000 are child laborers, Chinese surveys have shown; many work in sweatshop conditions.
 
Dangers of a Downturn
 In Jiangxi Province, the outflow of farmers leaped from 200,000 in 1991 to more than 3 million last year. Shanghai's 13 million residents are now supporting 2.5 million rural workers attracted from all over the Yangtze valley to construction work on the city's vast redevelopment.
As long as China's economic growth gallops along at more than 10 percent a year, this floating population is likely to remain relatively well employed, prosperous and stable. But an economic downturn or recession could easily leave the migrants stranded and aggrieved.
"This is the labor of an exploited class," said a longtime Western diplomat here. "There are no wage laws to protect them, and they can be fired on a whim."
Professor Baum added: "It is a double-edged sword to be sure. They may be an efficient buffer helping to transform the economy, but they are also a large pool of marginal people subject to the vagaries and insecurity of having no rice bowl they can count on. They are dying in grotesque industrial accidents, they are locked in the dormitories at night, and they create a pocket of potential human misery wherever they cluster."
 
Building Subways and Hotels
 Farmers from Sichuan Province are building Beijing's new subway, just as peasants from Zhejiang Province are building new freeways, hotels, office buildings and ministries. Many leave their villages because $1.25 a day on a sweltering construction site is more than they can earn working the land.
Others are "environmental refugees" from northern and western China where the land has just given out from degraded soil, dried up water resources or the relentless advance of the Central Asian deserts.
Many go home with money in their pockets, but many also go home nurturing grievances.
On a recent afternoon, six unkempt men lying on bedrolls in Beijing's main railway station explained why they were returning to Jiangsu Province after less than a month at work here. Their spokesman was a 24-year-old farmer named Liu with a face lined by weather and worry.
"We just don't want to work here any more," he said. "We left our construction team yesterday without notifying the boss. It serves him right."
The construction boss had come to Mr. Liu's hometown and promised to pay the villagers $1.72 a day to lay bricks and pour concrete. He said he would also pay for their train tickets. But when they got to the site, near Beijing's international airport, the boss cut their wages to 57 cents a day and told them they would have to pay for their own train tickets.
 
The Uses of Money
 Their tempers simmered for a month before they decided to head back to the farm, where their wives were looking after the rice crop.
Speaking in a tone that reflected their intimidation in the big city, Mr. Liu said: "We dare not walk in Beijing alone. We are new here. Some people might find faults with us, or fine us."
Remittances from peasants who do find work are dramatically redistributing the new wealth.
Professor Fan said that in one county in Sichuan Province, migrants remitted $138 million last year, more than the total economic output of the county, which was $115 million. A recent study of China's rural economy said migrant farmers from Anhui Province sent home $862 million, which exceeded the provincial government's annual revenue by $230 million.
What is most remarkable, however, is the sheer mass of migration.
During Lunar New Year celebrations, when all 1.2 billion Chinese are drawn home to their families, train stations became encampments for hundreds of thousands of travelers a day, Woodstock-sized crowds of peasants waiting for trains in dozens of rail hubs.
 
52 Trampled to Death
 At the New Year in February, China's overburdened rail system pressed special freight trains into service, each one bulging with human cargo packed so tightly that some passengers became hysterical with claustrophobia. In one accident, 52 people were trampled to death when 10,000 migrants were herded onto a freight train in Hunan Province.
Mr. Ren arrived recently in Beijing hoping to land a job in the local coal mines. He made his way to the labor market, becoming one face in a sea of laborers for hire.
Alarmed at the rapid growth of Beijing, the municipal authorities have posted signs saying the market has been closed. This has not stopped the peasants from coming, nor has it stopped gangs of criminals from prowling the market, looking for women and children to abduct and sell into China's booming trade in prostitutes and wives for sale.
 
From One City to Next
 Policemen on foot patrols often scatter the workers like so many chickens.
One laborer who kept well away from the police was Wang Xinmin, 24, who has migrated from one city to another since he left Henan Province at 17. Too much work on not enough land put him on the road, he said.
He has worked in the far south, at a garment factory in the special economic zone of Shenzhen, adjacent to Hong Kong, but it did not last.
"The local people there bullied us because we were from the countryside," he said. And the factory boss, who had promised high wages, delivered only half of that on payday.
"The working conditions were really unsafe and chaotic," he said, "and though we were supposed to work eight hours a day, actually we had to work much longer."
Having lost his most recent job, as a busboy, Mr. Wang said he would try for two more weeks to land another job in Beijing before heading home.
 
Farming 'Not Worth It'
 Mr. Wang sat cross-legged under a pine tree near the labor market, and when he finished telling his story, he listened to one from Mr. Ren, who comes from a line of farmers in the hardscrabble hills of Hebei, 120 miles northwest of Beijing.
"People like me don't want to work on the land anymore," Mr. Ren said. "It's backbreaking work. I've tried it. The land is not fertile, and it is far from any water. It's just not worth it."
If he stayed home and worked the land, Mr. Ren said, he might earn $345 a year if rain were plentiful. But working in a Beijing coal mines, he might take home nearly $700.
In either case, it is not enough to get a wife these days. "I would like to have a wife," he said. "But the dowry demands of girls are very high," higher even than the wages of a migrant coal miner.

GRAPHIC: Photos: China's migrant labor force, an estimated 50 million strong, greases the wheels of the country's surging economy. But experts warn that it could be a destabilizing force if the jobs run out. A major gathering point for migrant workers is the central train station in Beijing. (Agence France-Presse); "People like me don't want to work on the land anymore," said Ren Jun, who came to Beijing from Hebei Province. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)
 
Map of China shows the location of Beijing and of Shanghai.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; LABOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RURAL AREAS; POPULATION SHIFTS; URBAN AREAS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; AIR POLLUTION ; CRIME AND CRIMINALS FARM LABOR (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); COASTAL AREAS (90%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); MINES & MINING (66%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (62%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (62%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



678 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: Sabi Sand Journal;
Trying to Bridge South Africa's Rich-Poor Chasm

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SABI SAND GAME RESERVE, South Africa

 BODY:
The worlds on either side of the wire fence that surrounds this mammoth private game reserve could not be more different from each other.
Inside the fence is a 140,000-acre wildlife refuge where wealthy tourists, most of them white, luxuriate in opulent surroundings, sip drinks on shaded verandas and gambol about the bush in Land Rovers photographing cheetah, lions, rhinos, elephants and other game. 
 Just outside the fence is grinding poverty in this stretch of the former tribal homeland of Gazankulu, one of the 10 ostensibly self-governing areas for blacks set up under the old apartheid regime. Some 500,000 people crammed into about 140 square miles in the immediate vicinity try to wrench a meager living from the agriculturally marginal land by raising cattle, goats and corn.
For years the two worlds rarely intersected except for the few local residents who worked at the game lodges as cooks, cleaning women, drivers or game trackers. But in the last 18 months, some of the private landholders in the reserve have made tentative steps to develop black-owned businesses to provide goods and services to the game lodges and to create alternatives to traditional subsistence farming.
"The idea is to attract wealthy international travelers and connect them with economically devastated areas," said Dave Varty, chairman of the Conservation Corporation, which runs a 24-room lodge called Londolozi on the reserve.
So far the efforts have been modest. The Conservation Corporation has helped start a business to make earthen pots for plants that decorate its lodges. It has also helped local women to get a $28,000 loan from a foundation to start small sewing cooperatives that make clothing for the local people and for tourists to buy in the gift shops. A group of landowners contributed about $10,000 to buy a water pump and to build a water tank so that a nearby community could create an eight-acre community garden that they hope will supply fresh produce to some of the lodges.
There are more ambitious plans as well. A community group has asked the Conservation Corporation to lend it capital to build a landing strip for aircraft bringing visitors to the nearby Kruger National Park. And there are plans for laundries, auto repair shops and film developing companies.
"The people here are not looking for a type of affirmative action that says: we're black, give us your business," said Grant Hearn, a rural development specialist from the University of Natal whose work in the area is financed by landowners in the reserve. "They're saying: train us and we will compete as suppliers."
Landowners in the reserve see their efforts not as charity but as a kind of insurance policy now that political power has shifted to a black majority that is still largely poor. Some businesses realize that unless black economic development occurs, they may face harsher consequences, like expropriation of land by frustrated black residents.
"The people also are saying that if you don't give us education and training, then we'll demand the land back," Mr. Hearn said.
Neither Mr. Hern, nor Solly Mohaule, the community liaison officer from Conservation Corporation, have any illusions that the tourist industry in the reserve will ever be a big enough market to meet the needs of an area where unemployment is about 60 percent.
But with the old tribal homeland structure wiped out by the new order and with the new national Government not planning to set up local authorities until next year, this small-scale economic development is one of the few signs of change in the area.
Like many ideas in South Africa at the moment, these must overcome a host of obstacles. The old system of education for blacks provided few business skills. The old tribal homelands policy denied black residents clear title to the land, making it difficult to use land as collateral for loans.
And efforts to achieve a partnership in economic development must overcome the black suspicion of whites that is a legacy of apartheid.
"People say to me, 'the white man has had many plans before that have tricked the blacks,' " said Mr. Mohaule, a black who grew up in the region and later became a lawyer in Johannesburg.
Suspicion is heightened by the fact that the reserve was carved from land that once belonged to the local people. "The forced removal of people from the game reserve is a problem," said Sam Nzima, who owns a liquor store near the fence. "People still believe that that is our land."
That wariness also surrounds an idea being floated by the Conservation Corporation to expand the Sabi Sand Reserve by getting local people to cede control -- but not ownership -- over some of their land. In return the community would receive an equity stake in the company and representation on its board of directors.
While company officials see the plan as a way for the local people to gain further revenue, the idea has not yet been embraced by the local residents.
"We're not sure about the concept," said Mac Mnisi, an adviser to a local chief of the Shangaan, the ethnic majority in the area. "The matter is still being talked about. The most important question is who will benefit."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tourists enjoying a meal in the outdoor dining area at Londolozi Game Lodge, part of the Sabi Sand Game Reserve in South Africa. The reserve's owners are trying to help local people set up businesses to supply it. (Carolina Salguero for The New York Times)
 
Map of South Africa shows the location of Sabi Sand Game Reserve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: CONSERVATION CORP SOUTH AFRICA LTD (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; SABI SAND GAME RESERVE (SOUTH AFRICA); SOUTH AFRICA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (90%); MAMMALS (90%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (90%); WILDLIFE (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (89%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (88%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); MINORITY BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (75%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); TRENDS (70%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); POLITICS (60%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (50%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



679 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Seeks Chile Trade

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
President Clinton predicted today that Congress would give him the authority to negotiate a free trade agreement with Chile, but he left unclear what type of pact the two countries would pursue.
Mr. Clinton, meeting for the first time with Eduardo Frei Ruiz-Tagle, the Chilean President, told reporters that winning "fast-track authority" from Congress to expedite an agreement was a top priority. 
 But both leaders said they were unsure whether to pursue a bilateral trade pact or whether Chile should join the North American Free Trade Agreement linking the United States, Mexico and Canada.
Fast-track authority would require Congress to vote on the treaty, without amendments, within a specified time period. The authority was used in negotiating the North American trade pact.
"The most important thing for me now is to get the Congress to approve the fast-track negotiations with Chile so that we can accelerate this economic partnership," Mr. Clinton said. "I think they will."
Mr. Frei told a news conference that no decision had been made. He said his Finance Minister, Eduardo Aninat, and Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, had been charged with coming up with the best option for both countries.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHILE (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE; CHILE (99%); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT; CHILE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); RUIZ-TAGLE, EDUARDO FREI (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



680 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Proposals Could Erode Fiscal Gains, Giuliani Aides Say

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
With a $31.6 billion city budget in place, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani faces a new battle in Albany over an attempt by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association to be removed from the jurisdiction of the city's collective bargaining law, as well as several proposals to supplement pensions for retired public employees.
Public employee unions are pushing hard for the pension increase, which they say is needed to allow retired workers to keep up with inflation. And the P.B.A. bill is part of that union's continuing effort to win parity in pay with neighboring suburban police forces.
 
Negating State Aid
 But city officials said the set of bills, if passed, could cost the city $300 million or more, eroding the fiscal gains achieved when the state approved $285 million in additional aid to the city. 
 "This is an issue that we have to take very seriously," said Abraham M. Lackman, the city budget director. "It will undercut all of the aid that we got." He said that the cost of the pension supplement alone could force the city to lay off up to 15,000 workers.
Mr. Giuliani is to meet with legislative leaders in Albany today to bring the message that the city cannot afford substantial new costs in the new fiscal year. Aides said he would also be seeking approval for a measure that would save the city $127 million by the end of June 1995, by allowing it to make reduced contributions for several years to city pension systems and to increase the amount in later years.
Mr. Giuliani's lobbying came as the Legislature moved into its end-of-session flurry, and city officials said the Albany pension bills were their biggest concern.
The State Legislature is considering several bills that would for the first time provide an annual cost of living adjustment to the pensions of retired state and city workers and teachers. Most of the versions being discussed would tie the increase to the consumer price index.
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has said such an adjustment would be difficult for the state to afford, but in an election year in which public employee and teachers unions can provide critical support for legislative candidates, there is significant backing for the measures in both the Senate and the Assembly.
As an alternative, legislative leaders and the Cuomo administration are also discussing a one-time pension supplement that would give retirees a raise in payments, but not on a recurring basis. Deputy Mayor John S. Dyson said that the various proposals pending in the Legislature could cost the city from $226 million to $500 million annually.
 
Fighting P.B.A. Bill
 The Giuliani administration is also fighting legislation sought by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association that would remove the police union from the authority of the city's collective bargaining law, and put the officers under the jurisdiction of the State Public Employment Relations Board. The same bill has been approved by the Assembly and Senate in the past, but was vetoed by Mr. Cuomo. It has already passed the Republican-run Senate this year.
Aides to the Mayor said the measure would hinder the Giuliani administration's attempt to hold the P.B.A., the city's largest and most powerful police union, to the same pattern established in wage settlements this spring with the housing authority police and the firefighters. Those contracts conformed to the modest wage increases negotiated with other municipal employees a year ago.
City officials say that if the police union came under the jurisdiction of the State Public Employment Relations Board, the officers could find more support for their attempts to win wage settlements comparable to their better-paid suburban counterparts instead of being compared with other city employees. The P.B.A. has been without a contract since October 1991.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In Albany yesterday, retired public employees gathered to demand that the Assembly adopt a permanent cost-of-living adjustment for them. (David Jennings for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSN (PBA) PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSOCIATION (92%); STATE LEGISLATURE (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATROLMEN'S BENEVOLENT ASSN (PBA) STATE LEGISLATURE (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; POLICE; COLLECTIVE BARGAINING CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CITIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); TEACHER UNIONS (76%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (76%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (60%); SUBURBS (55%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MITCHELL, ALISON RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



681 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Jews Revisit Shanghai, Grateful Still That It Sheltered Them

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SHANGHAI

 BODY:
They stood in the pouring rain not long ago, a few dozen Jews from all over the world and their Communist Chinese hosts, to commemorate Shanghai's role as a safe haven for Jewish refugees fleeing the Holocaust.
In the late 1930's, Shanghai was the only destination in the world that did not require an entry visa. And so the Jews came -- 20,000 or more. And Shanghai, with an already established Jewish population of about 10,000, took them in. 
 "Those of us who grew up in Shanghai felt no anti-Semitism," said David Zysman, vice president of Yeshiva University.
Mr. Zysman arrived here in 1934. His family came from Europe by way of Panama. His father was in the silk trade, and they stayed through the war. He returned recently with a small group from New York led by Rabbi Arthur Schneier.
Benjamin C. Fishoff, today an electronics importer in Manhattan, escaped from Poland to Shanghai with his entire Hebrew school. But he had to leave his parents behind and never saw them again.
Joseph Ganger, who runs a garment business with headquarters in the Empire State Building, got to Shanghai with his parents after the war began.
If there had been room on an Italian steamship sailing to Shanghai in late 1938, Rabbi Schneier said, he, too, would have fled to China instead of to Hungary, where most of his family were killed.
The Japanese, allied with Germany, had already taken most of eastern China. Shanghai's streets, bustling with rickshaws and Bentleys, throbbed with frenetic wartime commerce.
Rena Krasno was born in Shanghai in 1923 to Russian immigrant parents and stayed until 1949. But she never learned to speak Chinese and was mostly oblivious to the currents of Chinese nationalism there.
Ms. Krasno's father edited one of 30 Jewish newspapers published in Shanghai in those days.
"When the refugees came, my father was totally involved with them," she said. "Anybody with a social conscience spent every hour trying to help them survive because we knew Jews were being killed like flies in Europe and we wanted this small number of Jews here to survive."
Japanese and German archives later revealed that the fate of the Shanghai Jews was almost sealed in July 1942 when Col. Joseph Meisinger of the Gestapo in Japan arrived in Shanghai with a plan to kill all the Jews there.
Papers by Chinese academics from the Center for Jewish Studies in Shanghai asserted that when news leaked of the German plan, Japan backed away from it. The Japanese occupiers declared the Jews stateless refugees and set up a ghetto instead.
The establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Israel in 1992 made the recent commemoration possible, even though the Jewish population of Shanghai had been dispersed.
Sensitive to the religious themes of the commemoration, city officials barred reporters from the events. But they were not shy about the economic implications. They conducted an investment seminar for the visitors.
On a tour, the group visited the old Ohel Rachel synagogue, now vine encrusted from disuse. Rabbi Schneier has been lobbying Beijing on religious freedom issues, including the restoration of the synagogue.
"Shanghai is going to become a major center of trade and finance in the future, so we have to dream and I firmly believe there will again be a Jewish community here," he said.
But for those who returned on the recent trip, a tour of the old Jewish sites of the city at times raised clouds of memories.
Mr. Fishoff, examining a photo exhibit, found himself staring at his own image on an identification card.
"I was so shocked to see myself up there on the wall," he said, "I got quite emotional."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); HUNGARY (79%); 

STATE: EAST CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: SHANGHAI, CHINA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI (CHINA); CHINA; CHINA (99%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (87%); UNITED STATES (79%); ISRAEL (79%); HUNGARY (79%); EAST CHINA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NAZI ERA; JEWS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES JEWS & JUDAISM (92%); REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); HOLOCAUST (78%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (77%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (77%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (74%); RELIGION (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); CITIES (50%); CITY GOVERNMENT (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E ARTHUR SCHNEIER (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



682 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

BILL WOULD CURB SOME PAY PHONE RATES
New York State legislative leaders announced agreement on a bill that for the first time would limit certain rates on pay telephones owned by small private companies, which often charge high prices and surcharges to unsuspecting customers. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 

WORK RULE CHANGES BLOCK TRANSIT PACT
With a Thursday night deadline looming for a new contract, transit officials and the union representing bus and subway workers are deadlocked over a basic question: How many people does it take to run a subway train? B3.
 
SCHOOL GUARD CHARGED WITH RAPE
In a case that raises questions about the quality of the safety force in the city's public schools, a security guard who was being investigated for dating a teen-ager was arrested on charges of having sex with a 12-year-old student. B3.
 
NEW TACTICS FOR LAWYERS IN BOMB CASE
Defense lawyers representing the men charged with plotting to bomb New York City landmarks charged that the defection of a key defendant to the prosecution's side could hurt them because the defector knows their strategies. B3.
 
SMALL COMPANIES PLAYING BIGGER ROLE
Two new studies indicate that smaller businesses play an increasingly important role in generating jobs for New Yorkers. Particularly surprising was that the thousands of small industrial companies proved far more successful than big ones in riding out the economic downturn of the last few years. B2.
 
MORE BATTLES IN ALBANY FOR MAYOR
With a city budget in place, Mayor Giuliani faces new battles in Albany over collective bargaining and retirement pensions. B4.
 
WASTE CHARGED IN HOMELESS PURCHASES
Standing before a shelter for working homeless women, the New York City Public Advocate charged that the city wastes at least $2 million a year on food purchases for homeless shelters, and said buying policies should be changed to enable more companies to compete on contracts to provide the meals. B4.
Buyer beware when the copier salesman comes knocking. In School, A21.
 
REGION
 
MISTRIAL IN MURDER CASE
A mistrial was declared in the case of Paul Cox, the 26-year-old Larchmont carpenter accused of murdering two Indian immigrants who were living in his childhood home, after one juror continued to hold out against a guilty verdict for a seventh day of deliberations. B5.
 
INSURANCE BENEFITS FOR GAY PARTNERS Governor Cuomo announced that he would extend insurance benefits to the domestic partners of gay and lesbian state workers by the start of next year. B4.
 
BITTER DISPUTE OVER SLAIN CHILDREN
The 50-year-old divorced father who is charged with murdering his two children during a weekend visit had fought bitterly in court with their mother over money and visitation. B5.
 
SAME GUN IN TWO SHOOTING ATTACKS
Shots fired by a sniper on the Southern State Parkway came from the same gun used to shoot out the windows of a nearby auto body shop owned by the family of Joey Buttafuoco, the state and Nassau County police said. B5.
About New York by Michael T. Kaufman B3

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Office Rent" shows the average annual asking rent in dollars per square foot in June '94, and the change from '93. (Source: Edward S. Gordon Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TELEPHONE RATES (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); MURDER (89%); CHILDREN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MISTRIAL (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (86%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); CITY LIFE (77%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (77%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); VERDICTS (76%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (76%); JURY TRIALS (76%); JOB CREATION (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); BUDGETS (71%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%); HOMELESSNESS (68%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (68%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (68%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



683 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Grim View From Brazil Coffee Fields

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, June 28

 BODY:
Wanderley Cintra Ferreira, president of the coffee growers cooperative of Franca, in the interior of Sao Paulo state, flew over the cooperative's blighted coffee fields today, to survey the damage from Brazil's worst cold snap in nearly 20 years.
"It was clear that the damage was very great," Mr. Ferreira reported. 
 Agricultural experts here estimate that the Antarctic cold front that swept through southern Brazil, the world's largest coffee producing region, has destroyed about one-third of next year's crop. Brazil is the leading supplier of coffee, accounting for about a quarter of world production.
The impact was felt on commodity exchanges around the world, where coffee-futures prices continued to rise today after soaring more than 25 percent on Monday. Coffee for July delivery jumped 10.55 cents, to $1.703 a pound in New York, the highest in seven and a half years.
With some producers defaulting today on delivery contracts, hoping to ride the wave of rising prices, Brazil and Colombia, the largest growers, temporarily suspended exports for July and waited for notoriously volatile commodity prices to stabilize.
Many Brazilian growers walked through their fields today, trying to assess the losses. "The cold wind hit 100 percent of our area," said Carlos Melles, a grower in Minas Gerais state. "We believe that 50 percent of the bushes have been damaged and that there will be a 30 percent drop in next year's harvest."
But specialists said the sharply rising prices were being spurred by more than the prospect of losing 7 percent of the world's 1995 crop. Prices started to tumble in 1989, and by the early 1990's reached the lowest real levels of the century. The crash, provoked by overproduction, has resulted in losses by producer nations since 1989 estimated at $10 billion.
While world prices dropped in half, consumer prices declined one-third, allowing coffee roasters to increase profits. The roasters argue that coffee beans account for only one-quarter of coffee prices, with processing, packaging, transportation and marketing making up the rest.
"The roasters enjoyed incredible profit margins," said Judith Ganes, a coffee analyst for Merrill Lynch in New York.
As coffee became barely profitable, Brazilians tore out bushes or cut back on pruning and fertilizing. In five years, Brazil reduced the number of bushes by almost 25 percent, to about 3.2 billion today.
Coffee's dominance of exports has decreased much more. From 74 percent of Brazilian export revenue in 1952, coffee accounted for only 3 percent last year. In one traditionally coffee-producing state, Espirito Santo, coffee has dropped from 33 percent to 8 percent of economic activity.
The neglect was felt when the frigid weather hit. "Without maintenance, many trees were weak and vulnerable to last weekend's frost," said Francisco Ourique, a partner in Flavor Coffee, a trading company here.
Still, with most Brazilian beans ready for harvest, analysts expect only a 5 percent loss in this year's crop. But the southern part of the country is blighted by dead and damaged bushes, and the 1995 crop is expected to be 18 to 20 million sacks, down about one-third from forecasts.
The frost's effect was quickly felt at supermarket counters in the United States. Roasters, raising prices as much as 20 percent, followed a lead set Monday night by Procter & Gamble, which increased the price of its Folgers coffee 17 percent.
With international coffee supplies relatively low, consumer prices could continue to rise through the summer. "I was expecting $2 a pound, without a freeze," Ms. Ganes of Merrill Lynch said. "If the extent of Brazil's freeze is severe, the price could hit $2.70.
The freeze last weekend struck as the Brazilian Government favors low coffee prices. This is because it is changing the cruzeiro to a dollar-backed currency called the real on Friday and embarking on a plan to radically reduce inflation, now 45 percent a month. Coffee makes up a key part of the basket of consumer prices the Government wants to stabilize. Even before last weekend's freeze forced up world coffee prices, officials announced a plan to auction 1.5 million sacks to local roasters in an effort to push down domestic prices by 15 percent.
In addition, the Government would like to lower world prices to prevent recurrence of the boom-and-bust cycle that has plagued coffee growers for generations. "Frosts always provoke production increases," said Ruy Barreto, president of one of Rio de Janeiro's largest trading companies. "This one will only work as an incentive for new planting in Africa, Central America and Indonesia -- and Brazil will lose market share."
Lawrence Eagles of GNI Ltd. in London agreed, saying: "If prices rise too high, they are going to cause a flood of investment in coffee production. There will be an impact on consumption, and the producers will be back in boom-and-bust cycle."
On paper, Brazil has a stock of 17 million sacks -- almost equal to a year's consumption in the United States, the biggest consumer. But Brazil has dragged its feet in recent years in conducting an internationally accepted audit. Many brokers fear that the country's supply is no more than 10 million sacks. Of those, only 2 million would be of export grade.
In Colombia, where each rise of one cent in the price of coffee generates $15 million in foreign-exchange earnings, growers have also been caught with low production and cannot make up for Brazilian crop losses.
The Colombian harvest this year is expected to be 11 million sacks -- the lowest in five years. By comparison, Colombia produced 18 million sacks in 1992. With Colombian growers currently receiving 64 cents a pound for their coffee, officials there announced today that the Government would raise producer prices in July.
Colombia, Brazil and other producers from Central America are to meet next week to try to reach an agreement on a uniform price policy.
In Africa, the world's second-largest growing region, production has gradually fallen in recent years.
In the meantime, consumption has increased in the United States. After dropping nearly in half from 1962 to 1988, American consumption has risen 12 percent since 1988. Last year, Americans each drank an average of 1.87 cups of coffee a day.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Why Cold Snap in Brazil Worries U.S. Importers" shows the decrease of U.S. imports and stock of unroasted coffee. (Sources: Departmentof Agriculture; Green Coffee Association of New York City; National Coffee Association of U.S.A.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (57%); MER (NYSE) (57%); 8675 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL; COLOMBIA; BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: COFFEE; PRODUCTION; PRICES; FUTURES TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; WEATHER COFFEE FARMING (95%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COFFEE (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); FUTURES (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (88%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (77%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); EXPORT PRICES (74%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (74%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (67%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



684 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Higher Taxes? No Problem. Voters Rescue School.

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FAIRHAVEN, Mass., June 28

 BODY:
A white elephant of a building mixing turn-of-the-century French, Flemish and Tudor Revival styles, Fairhaven High School, known locally as the Castle, is not your conventional schoolhouse.
So it was perhaps appropriate that when the school was placed on accreditation probation last June, the town's residents responded in a most unconventional way: they voted to raise property taxes. 
 "The high school was going to get the official stamp 'Rejected,' like a car that doesn't pass inspection, said Thomas P. Crotty, a lawyer for the town. "It's kind of embarrassing."
The embarrassment was apparently shared by most of the voters in this picket-fence-pretty fishing town with its 21 miles of seashore and 16,000 mostly blue-collar residents on Buzzards Bay, 60 miles south of Boston.
In a special ballot on June 13, they approved, by 2,765 to 959, a 20-year increase in property taxes to help finance an $18 million expansion and renovation of the high school, which was built with a bequest to the town by a native son, Henry Huttleston Rogers, a millionaire oil man and Wall Street financier. It is one of five buildings financed by Rogers that give Fairhaven a skyline more typical of Europe than New England.
 
A Failing Grade
 The school, which has 630 students, boasts hand-carved gargoyles on ceilings and walls, floors of Italian marble and two-story stained-glass windows. Despite its architectural opulence, the New England Association of Schools and Colleges found that the high school failed to meet standards for library services, faculty, education programs and the building itself and threatened to take away its accreditation if the problems were not fixed.
In the June 13 ballot, Fairhaven voters agreed to finance about $6 million of the necessary renovations through an increase in the local property tax. The state will chip in $12.3 million. Elaine Rocha, Fairhaven's Town Clerk, said the decision would raise taxes $69 a year over 20 years, based on the average valuation of $112,000.
That may not seem like a great deal of money, but the decision comes at a time when voters around the country are increasingly reluctant to raise property taxes to pay for education and, in some cases, are turning to other sources of financing altogether.
In Massachusetts itself, in fact, schools operate under Proposition 2 1/2, a referendum approved by state voters in 1980 that limits property taxes to 2.5 percent of assessed valuation. Fairhaven got around that limit by voting to exclude the debt for the renovation from the 2.5 percent ceiling.
 
Corny but True
 Why is Fairhaven different? The answer most often cited by residents is not likely to signal a national change of heart on education financing: "Nobody volunteers to pay extra taxes," Mr. Crotty said. "It's community pride, the future of the children. All the things that people say that are so corny are true in Fairhaven."
Indeed, at a time when small towns in America appear to be vanishing -- or transforming into sprawling suburbs -- Fairhaven seems a rarity; a population that has remained stable for decades, a place where doors go unlocked and parking meters do not exist.
Town officials and residents alike hailed the tax vote as a symbol of confidence in the community, a stand taken for family values and a new beginning from years of economic recession.
"It's not just to save the building but to prepare the town and the students of the town for the future," said David F. Wood, who graduated from the high school 26 years ago.
School officials were not allowed to lobby voters either way on the tax measure, so Mr. Wood and other residents -- mostly students, their parents and Fairhaven High School graduates -- formed a political action committee that spent $4,600 to rally support for the vote.
Lawns were peppered with blue-and-white signs (the colors of the Fairhaven Blue Devils) backing the tax increase, and voters turned out at an unusually high 41 percent rate to cast their ballots, all of which gratified Mr. Wood, who headed the citizens' group.
"With the competitive nature of the world," Mr. Wood said, "my children and every other child in town need the best in order to survive in life."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Residents of Fairhaven, Mass., have voted to increase their property taxes to finance an upgrading of the turn-of-the-century building housing the local high school, which was facing loss of accreditation. The principal, Dr. John Newborn, had the school's ornate auditorium to himself yesterday. (Photographs by Evan Richman for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (73%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FAIRHAVEN HIGH SCHOOL (95%); 

ORGANIZATION: FAIRHAVEN HIGH SCHOOL (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FAIRHAVEN (MASS); UNITED STATES (90%); BELGIUM (73%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES PROPERTY TAX (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ACCREDITATION (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); SCHOOL INSPECTIONS & ACCREDITATION (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REFERENDUMS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); LIBRARIES (63%); 

PERSON: DAVID F WOOD (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



685 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: Parents of Slain Children Had Bitter Disputes in Court

BYLINE: By ROBERT HANLEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J., June 28

 BODY:
The 50-year-old divorced father who is charged with murdering his two children during a weekend visit had fought bitterly in court with their mother over money as well as over custody and visitation.
Family Court records here show that the man, Avi Kostner, a former cab driver under psychiatric care for depression, owed his former wife $8,200 in child support and won a judge's ruling in April canceling the debt. At that hearing, his ex-wife, Lynn Mison, sought permission to move to Florida with the couple's two children, Geri Beth, 12, and Ryan, 10. 
 The judge, Robert E. Hamer, granted her request and ordered a new visitation schedule to replace a 1990 court-ordered schedule that allowed Mr. Kostner to see the children every other weekend, on several Jewish holidays and four weeks each summer, records show.
 
Debt Was Erased
 Judge Hamer freed Mr. Kostner from making child-support payments while he was unemployed and erased his accumulated debt of $8,234. Mr. Kostner had been held briefly in the Bergen County Jail here three times -- in December 1987, June 1992 and March 1993 -- on charges of failing to make the child-support payments.
He was found on Sunday night in a friend's Isuzu Trooper parked outside the Teaneck police headquarters with the bodies of the children covered by a sleeping bag in a rear seat, the authorities said.
Acquaintances have said he was deeply troubled by Ms. Mison's plan to leave for Florida with the children on July 1. He complained about the move to merchants near his apartment in Teaneck and to friends at the Teaneck Jewish Center, where he worshiped and served as an assistant scoutmaster of a Boy Scout troop.
"He feared he would lose the children not only geographically, but also religiously and emotionally," said the center's rabbi, David Feldman. Rabbi Feldman said Mr. Kostner had complained several times about his former wife's planned move.
 
Messages to Friends Reported
 John J. Fahy, the Bergen County Prosecutor, said the move may have been a motivating factor in the murders. Before he was found, Mr. Kostner left messages on the answering machines of friends saying he killed the two children and planned to commit suicide, Mr. Fahy said.
Autopsies have shown the two children were suffocated, and Mr. Fahy said today that investigators do not know where the killings occurred.
Mr. Kostner, who is being held in the prison ward at the Bergen Pines County Hospital in Paramus, is scheduled to appear in court for the first time on the charges Wednesday.
According to court records, during the April hearing Mr. Kostner objected to the children's proposed move. In addition to the request for the reduction in his child support, he also asked that Ms. Mison be held in contempt for encouraging the children to call their stepfather Daddy. Judge Hamer rejected that request and also approved the children's move.
Ms. Mison remarried after she and Mr. Kostner were divorced in April 1988 after a nine-year marriage. In her divorce papers, Ms. Mison, a high school teacher with a master's degree in chemistry, said she was the family's major source of support. She complained that Mr. Kostner was unable to hold a steady job, asserting he was willing to work only Sunday mornings and weekend afternoons between 4 and 6 P.M. She said he refused to help with household chores while she worked, at times, 90 hours a week at various jobs.
Since the divorce, Ms. Mison and Mr. Kostner have been in court many times, squabbling about custody, visiting rights, the children's religious upbringing and child support. Mr. Kostner complained that judges treated him unfairly and that his child-support payments of $130 a week were too great a portion of his weekly unemployment payment of $230. He claimed his former wife and her new husband earned $150,000 a year.
Under Judge Hamer's new ruling on visitation, Mr. Kostner would have been allowed to see the children four weeks this summer, over the new year's holiday and for two additional periods of 7 to 10 days. He would have been allowed to call them daily.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TEANECK JEWISH CENTER (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEANECK JEWISH CENTER (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (91%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (91%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (90%); MURDER (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); FAMILY COURTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (78%); FAMILY (78%); AUTOPSIES (78%); JUDGES (78%); DEPRESSION (77%); JEWS & JUDAISM (73%); SUICIDE (72%); JEWISH HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (66%); POLICE FORCES (65%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (53%); 

PERSON: HANLEY, ROBERT; KOSTNER, AVI; KOSTNER, GERI BETH; KOSTNER, RYAN AVI KOSTNER (96%); LYNN MISON (89%); ROBERT E HAMER (71%); JOHN J FAHY (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



686 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Tumble; Variety of Factors Cited

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities fell yesterday, buffeted by another retreat in the dollar, a surge in commodity prices, bearish economic news and concern about the next interest-rate rise by the Federal Reserve.
The 30-year bond fell 21/32 to a price of 85 4/32 , to yield 7.51 percent, up from 7.45 percent on Monday. Traders said most of the weakness was felt in the intermediate and long maturities, with shorter-maturity bills mixed. 
 Rising commodity prices, one of the chief culprits in much of yesterday's selloff, pushed the Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodity futures up 2.63 points, to 230.40, only one day after the index slid to a six-week low on Monday. The advance in the index, a closely watched inflation forecaster, was fueled by a sharp rally in grains and soybeans, as talk of hot weather intensified on the trading floors. Gold, a litmus test of interest-rate sentiment, was also higher yesterday, as gold for August delivery rose $1.50, to $387.90 an ounce on the Commodity Exchange in New York.
 
Rebound in New- Home Sales
 Among the economic reports released yesterday was a stronger-than-expected May report on new- home sales issued by the Commerce Department, which weighed on bond prices since it showed strength in the economy when none was expected. The report showed a sharp rebound to an annualized rate of 738,000 units in May following 708,000 units in April, significantly revised from the original estimate of 683,000. Sales were up in all sectors of the country except in the Midwest.
Ronald R. Reuss, chief economist at Piper Jaffray Inc., Minneapolis, said he saw the economy "showing some signs of weakness for the second quarter." He added, "Industrial production, factory orders and durables for the first two months of the second quarter were below the pace of the first quarter."
Mr. Reuss said that while some people expect economic growth of 3.5 to 4 percent on an annualized basis, some components in the economy during the second quarter indicated rate of growth that is less than 3 percent a year. "This should be good news for the markets as they are demanding a 3 percent or less growth mode to allay inflation fears," he said.
"Recent dollar weakness should be overlooked by the Fed because since the initial tightening in February the money supply of various measures have all shown significant reductions in their rate of growth," Mr. Reuss continued. "The Fed's intention is to slow the economy slightly and not kill it."
Concerning the stronger-than-expected new-home sales, Michael Carliner, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders in Washington, was surprised. Indeed he was skeptical of the May increase, and expected that the total for the year would not equal the annual rate reported in May.
"These numbers don't match up with our panel survey of builders," he said, "which has showed activity tailing since early in the year."
Another report released yesterday was the Conference Board's consumer confidence index. Even that rebounded more than expected, rising to 92.0 from 88.9 -- the highest in four years. The May import prices report showed a 1.1 percent surge in import prices, though the gain was a more modest two-tenths of 1 percent excluding oil.
Analysts said all three releases were modestly bearish for the market, and the combined effect sent Treasury prices down sharply in early trading. It temporarily distracted the market from the battered dollar, which rebounded a bit in overnight trading, but the threat of a renewed slide, which came to pass, held the market under siege.
 
Municipal Bond Market
 In the municipal market, bonds prices also came under pressure as investors remained hesitant about buying paper amid a rise in Treasury yields and an abundant supply of new issues.
Analysts said that with mutual funds and other institutional investors reluctant to buy bonds, brokers' inventories remained near seven-year highs.
Jacksonville, Fla., officials delayed the sale of $74 million in revenue bonds to finance improvement at the city's Gator Bowl stadium because of the increase in interest rates.
Among other offerings yesterday was New York State's $160 million of general obligation bonds, which were awarded to Bear, Stearns and initially priced to yield a maximum 6.30 percent for an issue due in 2024.
Those parts of the financing that are not insured by the Ambac Indemnity Corporation -- and thus triple-A rated by the rating agencies -- are rated A by Moody's Investors Service and A- by Standard & Poor's.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (65%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (65%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (65%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (65%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT PIPER JAFFRAY COS (65%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (68%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (91%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); METALS MARKETS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); BONDS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INFLATION (89%); US DOLLAR (79%); STOCK INDEXES (79%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); MONEY SUPPLY (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); GRAIN MARKETS (76%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (66%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (66%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT RONALD R REUSS (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



687 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 809 words

HEADLINE: Home Sales Climbed a Brisk 4.2% in May

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 28

 BODY:
Shrugging off the upturn in interest rates, sales of new single-family houses climbed 4.2 percent in May to the briskest pace of the year, a better-than-expected performance that combined with an upward revision for April sales to suggest that the economy may not be slowing much.
Separately, consumer confidence as plumbed by the Conference Board rebounded to about the highest level in four years, though expectations for the months ahead improved much less than assessments of currently prevailing conditions. 
 Though economists considered neither report significant enough to alter forecasts, markets reacted as if they feared faster growth. Bond prices dropped, as did stocks and the dollar.
Possibly contributing to the undermining of the dollar was the Government's annual tally of the nation's international investment position. It showed a widening gap between the value of American-owned assets abroad and foreign-owned assets in this country.
The negative position of the United States, which dates from the late 1980's, rose to $555.7 billion last year from $507.9 billion at the end of 1992.
The report on home sales, compiled by the Departments of Commerce and Housing and Urban Development, lifted the annual rate to 738,000, a pace that during the last year was exceeded only in the boom months of November and December.
"Interest rates have not depressed the housing market at all," contended Eugene J. Sherman, director of research at M. A. Schapiro & Company. "There's been no visible impact."
Mortgage rates have been rising since October, moving up on conventional 30-year loans to 8.60 last month from 8.32 in April, according to the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation. But analysts say affordability is still high and that marginal buyers have adapted by turning to adjustable rate loans.
Still, specialists generally agree that the recent pace cannot be sustained much longer, a view seemingly borne out by the latest poll of members by the National Association of Home Builders, issued in June. The proportion of builders expecting "good" sales six months from now has dropped to 36 percent from 41 percent, while 15 percent, up from 11 percent, expect sales to be "poor."
 
Sales Drop Ahead Seen
 "Much of the effect of higher rates is in discouraging people from beginning to shop," said Michael Carliner, an economist for the association. That suggests that people already in the market carried through with their plans -- and indeed might have been spurred to even quicker action by the turn-up in rates -- but that today's lower traffic in model homes points to a sales decline ahead.
Stephen S. Roach, senior economist at Morgan Stanley, said he already saw "the first signs of flattening out" of interest-sensitive parts of the economy, like housing and motor vehicles.
Sales last month rose 8.4 percent in the South, 6.5 percent in the Northeast (but at a still-sluggish rate) and 5 percent in the West. The Midwest, however, posted an 8 percent decline.
The upward revision for April was to an annual pace of 708,000 new homes from 683,000, thereby halving the initially reported decline to 3.4 percent.
With an inventory of 298,000 unsold houses in May, builders had a supply that would last 4.9 months at current selling rates, slightly lower than the five-month stock in April.
The median sales price of homes sold eased $3,000, to $127,000, last month but analysts said this, as usual, was probably more a reflection of the mix of homes that changed hands rather than a softening of house prices. The average price eased $1,500, to $152,000.
 
Confidence Is Strong
 The Conference Board, a corporate-sponsored research group, said its overall confidence index advanced to 92 in June from 88.9 as sentiment improved in seven regions and fell only in the South Atlantic and mountain states.
"Although consumers continue to express concern with the job situation -- both the present and the immediate future -- confidence is currently at a level which, historically, has been associated with a reassuringly lively economy," said Fabian Linden, executive director the group's research center.
But pessimistic views on future job prospects still outnumber positive ones by a moderate margin, Mr. Linden added.
The Commerce Department's calculation of the $47.8 billion widening in the country's net international debt -- direct investment and portfolio securities combined -- valued factories, farm land and other tangible assets at the current cost of replacing them.
When direct investment is valued at the current stock market value of the owner's equity, however, the net debt of the United States narrowed by $82.3 billion last year, to $507.7 billion.
The department said the divergence in the two measures reflected exceptionally big advances in foreign stock markets.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "New-Home Sales" shows new private homes sold during month from Dec. '92-May '94. (Source: Commerce Department); "Prices of New Homes" shows the median price for new homes in thousands of dollars from Dec. '92-May '94. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; CONFERENCE BOARD FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); M A SCHAPIRO & CO INC (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (50%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT (HUD); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP; CONFERENCE BOARD US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); SALES; MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); SINGLE FAMILY MORTGAGES (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (75%); BOND MARKETS (75%); BONDS (73%); MORTGAGE LOANS (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (69%); CITIES (66%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR FABIAN LINDEN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



688 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Lose Ground, With Dow Off 15.86

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
Old worries piled on the new worry of the declining dollar yesterday as the stock market retreated slightly after a one-day rally.
Traders returned to agonizing about inflation, interest rates and earnings. Housing data indicate that the American economy, thought to be slowing, may be as vigorous as ever and with it, perhaps, inflation. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, after leaping 48.56 points on Monday, retreated 15.86 points yesterday, to 3,669.64. Bond prices fell, exacerbating the stock decline.
 
Trade in Dollars Continues
 Meanwhile, currency traders continued to trade dollars down to near-record levels. The dollar dropped to 100.02 yen, from 100.45 yen in New York late Monday. The dollar fell to 1.5787 German mark, from 1.5840, the lowest level in more than a year.
"No one can change the longer-term decline in the dollar," said Kathleen M. Camilli, chief economist for Maria Fiorini Ramirez Inc., an economic consulting firm. "The best you can hope for is a managed decline of the dollar and you can do that through currency intervention and jawboning," or attempting to convince the financial markets that the dollar should be worth more, she said.
Because Ms. Camilli expects the Treasury Department and the Federal Reserve to intervene in the currency markets, she also expects European central banks, especially the Bundesbank, to put pressure on the Fed for a fifth rate increase in advance of the Fed's policy-making meeting on July 5 and 6.
The Fed's multibillion-dollar buying campaign is also expensive for the Bundesbank and other central banks, which join the Fed in huge dollar purchases, she said. "There has to be some quid pro quo."
The fate of the dollar is important because a weakening dollar makes dollar-denominated assets like stocks less attractive, particularly to foreigners. For example, a German investor who bought the stocks that make up the Dow industrial average would have a return of 3.95 percent over the last 12 months, but would post a loss of 3.21 percent when that investment was converted to marks.
Because of the market turmoil, many traders appeared to stay on the sidelines. Volume on the Big Board totaled 267.7 million shares, or almost 9 percent below this year's average daily volume of 293 million shares.
But traders who are worried about an overheating economy received a jolt yesterday. The Commerce Department reported that single-family home sales, instead of retreating because of higher interest rates, rose strongly.
Home sales posted an unexpected 4.2 percent rise in May after a revised 3.4 percent fall in April. The annual sales rate equaled 738,000, while private economists had expected a rate of 682,000. That compares with a revised rate in April of 708,000.
Long-term interest rates rose. The yield on the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 7.51 percent from 7.45 percent. Commodities prices, driven by higher coffee and corn prices, soared after a recent plateau. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities rose 2.63 points, to 230.4. Gold, the refuge of the inflation-jittery, gained. Spot gold futures for June delivery rose $1.50, to $386.20 an ounce. The broader Standard & Poor's fell 1.24 points, to 446.07. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite fell 0.63 point, to 702.05.
The New York Stock Exchange composite fell 0.65 point, to 245.80, with advancing stocks lagging behind declining stocks, 775 to 1,343. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 2.78 points, to 422.67.
The most active stock, at 17.2 million shares, was the American depository receipts of Vodafone Group, a cellular telephone company in Britain. Its shares rose 3/4, to 73 7/8, on no apparent news.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); TREASURY DEPARTMENT (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) TREASURY DEPARTMENT (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CURRENCIES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (77%); TREASURY SECURITIES (76%); GERMAN MARK (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (71%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY KATHLEEN M CAMILLI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



689 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 697 words

HEADLINE: Studies Show Small Companies Play Big Role

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
New York has long been identified with the Fortune 500 corporate giants whose names adorn Manhattan skyscrapers or that are based in suburban office complexes around the metropolitan area.
But two new studies indicate that smaller businesses are playing an increasingly important role in generating jobs for New Yorkers. Particularly surprising was that the thousands of small industrial companies doing business in New York proved far more successful than big ones in riding out the harsh economic downturn of the last few years. 
 The research was carried out separately by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York and the local office of the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics. Together, the studies suggest that the common practice in New York of handing out valuable tax breaks to large companies that threaten to leave -- while popular among political leaders faced with highly publicized job losses -- may be a poor use of tax dollars.
"Our economic development policies are ripe for a new look," said Samuel M. Ehrenhalt, New York regional director of the Bureau of Labor Statistics. "It is time that we had a good evaluation of what works and what doesn't."
 
Thought to Be an Exception
 For years, small business in the United States has prided itself on its image as the prime source of new jobs. But the New York area, with a greater concentration of large corporations than any other region, was thought to be an exception to the rule.
The recent research, however, suggests that smaller companies, particularly fresh start-up businesses, are of growing importance to New York in creating new jobs.
Companies with fewer than 25 employees account for roughly one-fourth of private employment in New York State. Yet they generated two-thirds of the additional jobs in the state during the mid-1980's boom, according to a report released on Monday by economists at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York.
And contrary to conventional wisdom, which generally assigns small business a greater role at the early stages of a economic recovery, their importance increased as the decade continued. For 1984 and 1985, New York companies with fewer than 25 employees produced less than half of the net job growth. But in 1987 and 1988, they accounted for 9 out of 10 of the additional jobs.
"Now that the regional economy is starting to grow again," said Rae Rosen, a senior economist at the regional bank, "we should look to small firms to generate most of the additional jobs."
 
Smaller Is Less Stable
 To be sure, the bank economists found that smaller companies are typically more unstable than big corporations. "This is good news with a caveat," Ms. Rosen said. "More job growth from small business also goes hand in hand with higher turnover."
But even that is not necessarily true for all types of companies. Another study, released yesterday by Mr. Ehrenhalt at a Bureau of Labor Statistics briefing, found that the local recession that lasted from 1989 to 1993 hit large manufacturing companies in New York State much harder than small companies.
Of the 17,000 industrial companies with fewer than 20 employees, 6.3 percent failed or left the state, costing the jobs of about 8.3 percent of their workers. By contrast, about 14 percent of the 8,000 companies with more than 20 employees disappeared. They eliminated more than one in six of their workers during the recession.
The bigger the company, the harder it fell. Companies with more than 100 employees cut their total work force by 20 percent, compared with a 14 percent loss of jobs at companies employing 20 to 99 workers.
"Manufacturing has been in long term decline here for 30 years," Mr. Ehrenhalt said. "But despite that, we're seeing some islands of strength in manufacturing, particularly among small establishments. Many of them appear to have some kind of talent for survival."
Looking forward, the Federal Reserve Bank economists concluded, new small businesses will be "clearly a dynamic part of the job creation process" in the New York area. But the region's "labor market in general will probably enjoy less employment stability during the 1990's than it did in the 1980's."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS) BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (92%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CORPORATIONS; LABOR; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SMALL BUSINESS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); SUBURBS (78%); CITIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); STARTUPS (64%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM SAMUEL M EHRENHALT (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



690 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 213 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:
Debt
 
* Federal Home Loan Bank is selling $50 million of step-up notes due in 1996 through First Tennessee Bank. The notes carry a 5.5 percent coupon and are priced at 100. If the notes are not called in six months, the coupon increases to 6.25 percent, then twice a year to 6.75 percent and 7.25 percent.
 

* Ferrellgas Partners L.P., Liberty, Mo., is selling $250 million of notes due in 2001 in two parts. One issue is $200 million series A notes priced at 100 to yield 10 percent. The notes are callable in four years. Starting in 1998, they are callable at 105, or $1,050 per $1,000 face value of bonds. In 1999, they are callable at 102.50, and are callable at par thereafter. The other issue is $50 million series B floating- rate notes priced at a yield 312.5 basis points more than the three-month London interbank offered rate, the rate international banks charge each other for loans. A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent. The series B issue has a sinking fund that retires $5 million in years five and six. Goldman, Sachs & Company led the underwriting team on the equity sale, while Goldman, Sachs and Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette managed the debt sale. The notes are rated B1 by Moody's Investors Service and BB- by Standard & Poor's.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FGP (NYSE) (72%); GS (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS454310 FUEL DEALERS (72%); SIC5984 LIQUEFIED PETROLEUM GAS (72%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: FERRELLGAS PARTNERS LP (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (67%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); FIRST TENNESSEE BANK NA (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MISSOURI, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (79%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING (78%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); INTERBANK LENDING (73%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



691 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Two insurers of mortgages may take rising interest rates in stride.

BYLINE: By Barnaby J. Feder 

 BODY:
INVESTORS are so nervous about rising interest rates that they are not thinking clearly about how different financial service companies are affected, according to some analysts. Take the difference between companies that lend money to home buyers and those that sell insurance policies guaranteeing that such mortgages will be paid.
Mortgage companies are clearly in for a rougher ride than in the days when rates were falling. Homeowners are less likely to take out new mortgages in search of lower monthly payments, depriving the mortgage sellers of a major source of income. And rising rates put pressure on mortgage originators to reduce loan spreads, servicing fees or other income sources to keep mortgage expenses from rising so fast that they drive business away. 
 Mortgage insurers, on the other hand, benefited less from the decline in interest rates and will certainly be hurt less from any increase. The size and stability of the revenue from premiums on existing policies is a far bigger factor in their performance than how many new policies they sell.
"A lot of investors have lost sight of the fact that these are insurance companies," said Richard Lane, who advises institutional investment firms for Cleary Gull Reiland & McDevitt in Milwaukee. Mr. Lane said that the MGIC Investment Corporation, the largest independent mortgage insurer, and the CMAC Investment Corporation, the other major pure play in the business, were undervalued.
The two companies compete with units of larger financial businesses, like those of the Allstate Corporation and the GE Capital Corporation, and with the Federal Housing Administration, which focuses on the highest-risk policies and has limits on the kinds of mortgages it can handle. Mortgage lenders typically require homeowners to buy mortgage insurance when they are putting down less than 20 percent of the cost of their home.
The good news for the insurers is that even as the number of refinanced mortgages drops sharply, there are still plenty of first-time home buyers to add to the pool of people paying premiums. And with the economy recovering in most places, the insurers can expect fewer claims.
MGIC, which pioneered the business in the 1950's but suffered big losses as a subsidiary of the Baldwin United Corporation in the 1980's because of policies sold to real estate speculators, is seen as the safer play. It was acquired by management and the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company in 1985 and taken public in 1991 at $24 -- or $12 a share, adjusted for last year's two-for-one stock split.
By early last year, MGIC peaked at $36. It closed on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday at $25.25, down 37.5 cents, but analysts say it should achieve its former peak again within a year, based on a conservative valuation of projected earnings. MGIC is growing not just from new policies but also from buying policies sold to reinsurers in periods when the risk of defaults was higher.
"They are hitting on all cylinders at the moment," Vanessa Wilson, who follows the company for CS First Boston, said. Michael Hughes, who follows MGIC for Merrill Lynch in San Francisco, has $40 a share as his 12-month target. Mr. Lane said $45 "would not be outrageous" if investors returned to valuing its earnings as highly as they did in early 1993.
CMAC, which ended trading unchanged at $25.875 yesterday on the New York Stock Exchange, has a smaller portfolio, less of a track record, and more exposure in the troubled California real estate market. But it also has the potential to climb even more rapidly if that market rebounds enough to cut default rates, Mr. Lane said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (91%); MTG (NYSE) (83%); RDN (NYSE) (67%); GNE (PAR) (66%); GEC (LSE) (66%); GE (SWX) (66%); GE (NYSE) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (91%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (91%); SIC6351 SURETY INSURANCE (83%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (70%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (70%); 

CITY: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (70%); 

COMPANY: MGIC INVESTMENT CORP; CMAC INVESTMENT CORP ALLSTATE CORP (91%); MGIC INVESTMENT CORP (83%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (68%); RADIAN GROUP INC (67%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (66%); NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE CO (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MGIC INVESTMENT CORP; CMAC INVESTMENT CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (70%); WISCONSIN, USA (70%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES; INSURANCE MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INSURANCE (92%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LENDER GUARANTY INSURANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); MORTGAGE REINSURANCE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); RISK MANAGEMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (77%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (77%); REINSURANCE (77%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (64%); STOCK SPLITS (63%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



692 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Japan Taking Steps on Deregulation

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 28

 BODY:
Japanese who want to drive large motorcycles must pass an excruciatingly difficult test administered by the police. Those content with a smaller motorcycle can pass an easy test given by a driving school. The United States has complained that these rules impede sales in Japan of American motorcycles, which tend to be large.
But the large-motorcycle test will be eliminated in two years as part of deregulatory plan announced by the Japanese Government today intended to sweep aside dozens of arcane regulations that have irked trading partners and sometimes domestic consumers, as well. 
 Today's plan follows up on a preliminary one announced late in March in an attempt to break Japan's trade deadlock with the United States.
But the new package lacks crucial economic-stimulus measures that Tokyo had promised. One missing element is a substantial increase in public works spending above 430 trillion yen -- now about $4.3 trillion -- that is budgeted for this decade. Another is an extension of this year's income tax cut to future years to stimulate consumer spending.
There is general agreement on the need for an income tax cut, but a bitter dispute as to whether the sales tax should be increased to compensate for it.
 
Group of 7 Meeting Shortly
 Japan had hoped to present the measures to the other leading industrial nations at a meeting of Group of Seven leaders next week in Naples. But the resignation of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata last Saturday prevents the Government from formulating such policies, which will be left for the next administration.
Even so, the deregulatory steps announced today are likely to be welcomed by Washington, if with some reservations.
"We've seen laundry lists of this sort in Japan before," an American official said. The crucial matter, he added, is how and whether the steps are carried out.
The plan include measures that could help American and other foreign companies sell more in Japan. For instance, the Japanese will allow more foreign data to be used in obtaining approval for the sale in this country of food, pharmaceuticals, medical devices, building material and automobiles, rather than requiring separate tests to be performed in Japan.
However, many of the 279 deregulatory items in today's plan only set a direction, leaving the details to be worked out later by Japanese ministries, which can sometimes thwart politicians' intentions. In other cases, new legislation is required to effect some change in regulations.
"The devil is in the details," said William Farrell, executive director of the American Chamber of Commerce in Japan. "I don't think any of us are putting on our party costumes."
In fact, the package, drawn up by a Government committee, still must be approved by the Cabinet in order to become official policy. But in the turmoil brought about by Mr. Hata's resignation, that will not happen until the next administration .
 
Foreign Ministry Is Positive
 A spokesman for the Foreign Ministry said that the new plan was "much more concrete and substantial" than two previous deregulatory packages announced by the Government in the last half-year.
"The basic line was set and that is very important," the spokesman said, adding that the bureaucrats "cannot escape from this framework." The plan calls for 193 of the 279 items to be acted upon by the end of the fiscal year next March, he said.
With Japan in a three-year economic slump, many business leaders and politicians have been calling for deregulation, not so much to appease the United States as to reinvigorate the Japanese economy by spurring the formation of new businesses. Deregulation is also seen as helping Japanese consumers by giving them a greater choice of goods and services at lower prices.
But there is still resistance, particularly from industries that are now bloated and heavily protected, like agriculture and retailing. And bureaucrats are reluctant to eliminate regulations because that reduces their power.
Japan has more than 10,000 regulations, so today's 279-item plan is only a beginning. The package calls for the Government to develop a five-year plan for further deregulation by the end of this year.
The new measures are concentrated in four areas -- housing and land use, telecommunications and information, financial services and the promotion of imports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: GROUP OF SEVEN

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF SEVEN

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (97%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); DEREGULATION (92%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MOTORCYCLES (90%); LEGISLATION (78%); SALES TAX (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); APPROVALS (74%); TRENDS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); POLITICS (69%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); INCOME TAX (67%); MEDICAL DEVICES (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (55%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW JOSEPH C PAPA (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



693 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 2033 words

HEADLINE: Dining as the Nation's Founders Did

BYLINE: By FLORENCE FABRICANT 

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA

 BODY:
When it opened more than 200 years ago, City Tavern was Le Cirque of Philadelphia. Started by a group of 53 prominent investors, including Lieut. Gov. John Penn and several signers of the Declaration of Independence, it was decidedly clubby and, as John Adams wrote, created suppers "as elegant as was ever laid on a table." Some meetings of the Second Continental Congress were held there, as were more raucous gatherings where prodigious quantities of alcohol were consumed.
Now, just in time for the Fourth of July, a refurbished City Tavern is reopening, in an incarnation that celebrates its history and the nation's food legacy. The restaurant opens to the public on June 30. On June 29 at noon, Mayor Edward G. Rendell will sit down to lunch with 60 city and business leaders. Had he been Mayor some 200 years ago, he might have done the same. 
 City Tavern, a restaurant with lodgings, was established in 1773 but burned down in 1854. When the National Park Service decided to reconstruct the tavern in 1948, not even the foundation remained. The project was finished in time for the bicentennial in 1976.
It cost $1.5 million to rebuild the tavern, a handsome five-story, Federal-style building on South Second Street at Walnut Street, not far from Independence Hall. To make it authentic, the Park Service used drawings, insurance surveys and other documents of the time and went as far as to have the bricks handmade, as they would have been in the late 18th century.
The rebuilt City Tavern fitted right in with the rest of the landmarks in Philadelphia's Independence Park district. But the food failed to live up to the structure. The restaurant was run by the Canteen Corporation, which initially tried to offer food typical of the era of George Washington. But quality and authenticity eroded under the pressure to turn a profit in what became a seasonal, tourists-only venture. A subsequent operator did no better.
Now, perhaps, gastronomic history will be better served. A year and a half ago, the Park Service closed the restaurant and began a search for a new operator. In February, after considering a number of proposals, it selected one from Walter Staib, a restaurant consultant in nearby Bryn Mawr, Pa. The contract required Congressional approval, and when it was granted on April 15, Mr. Staib was nervously looking at the calendar. "My dream was to open by the Fourth of July, and I began to wonder if we would make it," he said.
Not to worry. The Government has in Mr. Staib, 48, a man whose vision and attention to detail operate in overdrive. "I've been working so closely and intensely with this, I sometimes feel as though I was actually here at the time, in another life," Mr. Staib said last week as he guided a visitor through the building and offered tastes of some of the dishes that will be on City Tavern's menu.
As his executive chef, Mr. Staib hired Derek Banks, 29, who graduated from the Culinary Institute of America and has become nearly as passionate as Mr. Staib about the historic aspects of the project. The two had worked together before, at the Excelsior Hotel in Little Rock, Ark. "I love the history, finding out where the foods and cuisines came from," Mr. Banks said. "And I have become fascinated with Thomas Jefferson, who was definitely the food guru of the era."
The menu will include smoked pheasant and trout, baked crab meat, a lush wild mushroom bisque laced with sherry, pork tenderloin in oatmeal stout, quail roasted with bread stuffing and glazed with a raisin and brandy sauce, pork pie, a seafood stew and several dishes with sausages. Some West Indian dishes like pepper pot soup were popular in 1773 and will appear on the new menu. An old-fashioned taste is suggested in a number of dishes by the addition of sherry and allspice. Main dishes at dinner range in price from $14.25 to $22.50, and at lunch, from $6.75 to $14.25.
Some of the dishes seem startlingly modern -- like an appetizer of artichoke bottoms stuffed with peas, and salad dressings made with olive oil -- yet, they are historically valid. "Jefferson grew artichokes and 30 kinds of peas," Mr. Banks said. "And he loved olive oil so much he brought it back from Italy and wanted to plant trees here. That didn't work out, so he arranged for Africans to bring sesame seeds so they could be pressed for oil instead." Mr. Banks is also using a lot of marinades, he said, "because that's what they did in those days."
Mr. Staib said that there is a fine line between re-creating the old and accommodating modern tastes. "If someone wants a margarita, we'll serve it, but bottles of tequila will not be visible on the bar," he said. "We have no sandwiches on the menu because they were not served in America at the time."
All items on the menu, as well as the furnishings and tableware, had to be approved by Park Service historians. "They insisted on brass candlesticks because they said pewter was not used for candles in the late 18th century," Mr. Staib said. "Their historic window for this is about 1770 to 1790. They would not allow us to put flowers on the table. It's never easy when you're dealing with 50 million curators."
The dinnerware reproduces an 18th-century pattern, as do the goblets, which are made with a metal alloy that looks like pewter, rather than real pewter, which contains lead.
The Park Service did not permit certain historically accurate touches, like a whiff of curry in a sauce. "They were afraid spices like that would confuse the customers," Mr. Staib said. The issue of whether saffron will be acceptable has not been resolved.
Mr. Staib and Mr. Banks have started working with local growers of fruits and vegetables, especially those in nearby Lancaster County, and plan to start their own herb garden behind the restaurant. "The first thing I did when I came in here was get rid of the freezers," Mr. Staib said. "We only have a small one for ice cream."
The chandeliers will be dimly lit with 20-watt bulbs to simulate candlelight. "We're using large type on the menus," Mr. Staib said. He has made mostly cosmetic changes in the decor. The high-ceilinged rooms have been painted in muted colors, the wood floors are freshly scraped and the carpeting was designed from a needlepoint pattern researched by Park Service historians. Mr. Staib will use the basement rooms with fireplaces as private dining rooms.
As in the past, strong drink will be sold. "We know from the data there were parties you would not believe," Mr. Staib said. "They consumed incredible amounts of sherry, port, Madeira and wine." City Tavern will be the only place serving Thomas Jefferson Ale, an amber brew with an alcohol content of 9.8 percent, twice that of most beers. It is being made by Dock Street Brewing Company in Philadelphia according to Jefferson's recipe. "We had been working on the beer, and when we saw work was being done on the tavern, we came by to try to get the account," said Peter Breslow, a sales representative for the brewery. "The coincidence was unbelievable."
The beer will be served in small stemmed glasses because of its strength. It will be available in the dining rooms as well as in the bar room, whose bar is actually fitted with wooden bars to secure it. "That's the origin of the term," Mr. Staib said.
City Tavern is not Mr. Staib's first encounter with American history. The Parker House Hotel in Boston and the Sagamore Hotel in upstate New York are among his previous consulting assignments.
A native of Pforzheim, Germany, a town at the edge of the Black Forest, Mr. Staib began working in his parents' restaurant when he was 6. In 1969 he got a job as a chef in Chicago, and never went back to Europe.
Mr. Staib has no partners in the City Tavern project. It is the first job in which he has invested his own money, nearly $500,000 so far.
Each of the handmade costumes for the servers, from the mobcaps to the historically accurate shoes with no left or right, cost $400. He redid the kitchens and bought all the tableware. He plans eventually to open a shop to sell some of the items as souvenirs, along with baked goods and the like.
Records show that Daniel Smith, the tavern's first innkeeper, a man who straddled the fence politically and ran off to England after the Revolutionary War, purchased all the fixtures and furnishings.
"That even makes our expenses authentic," Mr. Staib said.

Early American Cuisine: Varied, but No Sandwiches
 
West Indian
Pepper Pot Soup
(Adapted from City Tavern)
Total time: 45 minutes
 
 1 link Italian hot sausage
 1/4 pound corned beef in one piece
 1 large onion, chopped
 4 scallions, chopped
 1 bay leaf
 2 sprigs fresh thyme
 1/2 Scotch bonnet pepper or other small hot chili, seeded and minced, or hot red pepper flakes or cayenne pepper to taste
 1 1/2 teaspoons whole allspice
 1/2 teaspoon whole black peppercorns
 6 cups beef stock
 2 cups shredded callaloo, spinach, mustard greens or other greens
 1 medium-size carrot, peeled and diced
 1/2 pound yuca, peeled and diced
 3/4 cup diced chayote or yellow squash
 Salt to taste.
1. Dice the sausage, place it in a 3- to 4-quart saucepan and cook over medium heat until lightly browned. Dice the corned beef, add it and continue to cook a few minutes. Add the onion, scallions, bay leaf and thyme, and continue to cook until the onion is tender. Stir in the hot chili or pepper.
2. In a mortar or spice grinder, crush the allspice and peppercorns and add them to the pot. Stir, then add the stock. Bring to a simmer, and add the greens. Cook for 20 minutes.
3. Add the carrot, yuca and squash and cook about 10 minutes longer. Taste, adjust the amount of pepper if necessary and season with salt. Remove the bay leaf and thyme before serving.
Yield: 6 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 200 calories, 9 grams fat, 30 milligrams cholesterol, 660 milligrams sodium (before salting), 10 grams protein, 20 grams carbohydrate.
 
Seafood Stew
(Adapted from City Tavern)
Total time: 45 minutes
 
 1 cup medium-dry or fruity white wine
 2 pounds mussels, scrubbed and debearded
 1 tablespoon unsalted butter, or more to taste
 1 large onion, sliced thin
 1 bulb fennel, sliced thin
 3 shallots, sliced thin
 12 jumbo shrimp, peeled and deveined
 1 pound bay scallops
 1/4 cup amontillado sherry
 1/2 cup heavy cream
 Salt and freshly ground white pepper
 A few drops lemon juice
 1 tablespoon minced chives.
1. Place 1/2 cup wine in a 3-quart saucepan, and bring to a boil. Add the mussels, cover and cook over medium heat until the mussels open, about 10 minutes. Use a slotted spoon to remove the mussels to a bowl. Strain the cooking liquid through a very fine strainer into a 2-cup measure. Add enough water to make 1 1/2 cups, and set aside.
2. Rinse any grit out of the saucepan. Place it over medium heat to dry it; then, add the butter. Add the onion, fennel and shallots, and saute, stirring from time to time, until they are tender but not brown.
3. Add the remaining wine, and cook over high heat until nearly all the wine evaporates. Add the mussel liquid. Bring to a boil, and add the shrimp. Cover, and cook about 5 minutes, until the shrimp are not quite completely pink. Stir in the scallops, cover and cook about 3 minutes. Add the mussels in their shells, cover and cook 2 minutes longer, until the mussels are reheated and the other seafood is cooked.
4. Using a slotted spoon, transfer the seafood, onions and fennel to a large, warmed, shallow serving bowl. Cover the bowl.
5. Bring the contents of the saucepan to a boil, add the sherry and cream and cook briskly for 5 minutes or so, until the liquid has reduced and thickened somewhat. Season to taste with salt and pepper, and add the lemon juice. Swirl in a little additional butter if desired. Pour the sauce over the seafood, sprinkle with chives and serve.
Yield: 4 servings.
Approximate nutritional analysis per serving: 440 calories, 20 grams fat, 220 milligrams cholesterol, 570 milligrams sodium (before salting), 45 grams protein, 20 grams carbohydrate.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Walter Staib, left, is reopening the City Tavern in Philadelphia. Derek Banks, the executive chef, is inspired by Thomas Jefferson. (pg. C1);
Even the shoes worn by servers at the newly reopened City Tavern have been reviewed by historians for their authenticity; Seafood stew with mussels, shrimp and scallops, at City Tavern. (Photographs by David Fields for The New York Times) (pg. C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CITY TAVERN (PHILADELPHIA); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE CANTEEN CORP (65%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY TAVERN (PHILADELPHIA); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%); NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; RECIPES; DECLARATION OF INDEPENDENCE (US); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; NYTRAVEL DRINKING PLACES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (87%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); APPROVALS (60%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (52%); 

PERSON: FABRICANT, FLORENCE; STAIB, WALTER; BANKS, DEREK ED RENDELL (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



694 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Drug Use: Still a Hushed-Up Secret in Baseball

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH 

 BODY:
Drug use. It's one of baseball's dirtier little secrets, hidden under rugs, until sad little occasions like yesterday, when Dwight Gooden was suspended for violation of the commissioner's drug policy.
Drugs. The illness and dangers are otherwise not often spoken of in major league baseball. Rather the subject is caught in a D.M.Z. That is the no man's land where issues of substance are pinned down, while fights over money make up most of the volleys exchanged between management and players. 
 Suspensions of players like Gooden, Otis Nixon and Pascual Perez, or revelations of illicit drug use by players like Paul Molitor and Darryl Strawberry, shed light on the topics occasionally. This shows that the game has no formal drug policy.
There are informal arrangements between management and players. Mental health officials on both sides are on hand to examine players said to be in harm's way. Not in harm's way of the drugs that could take their lives. In harm's way of disciplinary action that could take away their livelihood, their salary, weeks, months or even a lifetime, as was the case with Steve Howe.
Howe, the Yankee pitcher, is the player a former commissioner, Fay Vincent, tried to remove from the game for life after Howe was found to have violated the commissioner's drug policy for a seventh time. That Howe is still playing is more evidence of the rift between management and its union than it is of a concerted effort by both sides to make sure that these players can get the best treatment that money can buy.
Major League Baseball once did have a formal drug policy but another former commissioner, Peter Ueberroth, vacated it in the mid-1980's, as it fell victim to yet another wrangle between management and the players.
So it is after Ueberroth acted that baseball stumbles from incident to incident, suspending players and probably praying that none of them die -- at least until their careers are over -- as were the cases with the former pitchers Eric Show and Rod Scurry.
Otherwise, drug dramas sadly play out the same way. Major League Baseball and its commissioner monitor players but only those with a drug history. If these players are found to be in violation of aftercare treatment -- didn't show up for treatment, flunked urinalysis, etc. -- then that player risks suspension.
The commissioner or his stand-in will then gravely announce the suspension, as Bud Selig, the head of the owners' executive council did yesterday. The club that employed that player then makes its own statement, expressing disappointment and surprise.
In Gooden's case, as in the case of Strawberry a few months ago, the player then issues a vague statement of remorse.
Within hours, sometimes minutes, the players' union representative issues his own statement. It usually consists of little more than huddling with said player to see if he agrees to grieve the penalty -- in Gooden's case 60 days without pay.
As this unfolds one cannot help but notice the lack of the word treatment. But then again one learned long ago not to assume that the No. 1 priority is the player as a person not as a potential 20-game winner, producer of 100 runs batted in or the cause celebre of a legal battle.
Where is Gooden? No one knew or cared to say yesterday. But if it was a relapse, isn't it important to know whether he is receiving treatment? If the cases of Scurry and Show proved anything it's that a life could be at stake here. It would be wonderful to see that one day when a crisis disrupts a player's life all statements are waived until both sides are absolutely in agreement as to how best to help the player. But when both sides are preparing to wrestle over the player instead of caring for him it is folly to hope the game will be so enlightened any day soon.
Gooden, like Nixon before him, will likely make more headlines because of the fight for his 60-day pay than for any acknowledgement that other things must now take priority in life. Especially if he failed two successive drug tests, as a highly placed baseball official indicated.
Baseball knows how this will look. The union knows, too. It is a fight for rights to be sure. But is it a fight for Gooden? Baseball, unlike the National Basketball Association, has never been called a drug-infested league. But it has had enough players who have been troubled by alcohol and drugs, from Mickey Mantle to Pascual Perez, who know that an important percentage of its players have trouble. No less than Selig acknowledged this yesterday.
Selig said he doesn't think baseball is anywhere close to being drug-infested, but said, "that's no less reason for us to pursue a thoughtful policy." Said Selig: "We may debate how widespread this problem is throughout baseball. We cannot debate that there are tragedies out there."
So even when one player falls and the game goes one more day without uniting to fight this problem, then the whole game falls as well.
"It's obviously something we need to do, to declare a partnership not only for economic reasons but sociological reasons as well," said Selig. "And this would have to be a thoughtful program with emphasis on education and aftercare. This can't be a happy day for anyone in baseball."
But it's a day the sport could use to make a landmark decision. Players and management could decide that this is one issue where there is no longer any more room for disagreement. If they come together and but one life is saved, it could be the biggest victory baseball ever produced.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: ANALYSIS

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC; MAJOR LEAGUES; TESTS AND TESTING BASEBALL (92%); DRUG POLICY (90%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (79%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (79%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (75%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (74%); MENTAL HEALTH (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE; GOODEN, DWIGHT DWIGHT EUGENE GOODEN (92%); FAY VINCENT (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



695 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 19; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 573 words

HEADLINE: Cuban Tells Of Cinema Troubles

BYLINE: By By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, June 28

 BODY:
The director of the Havana Film Festival, for years a showcase of Cuban culture and a test of Communist tolerance, has left Cuba and vowed not to return, saying he will seek political asylum in the United States because he fears a new wave of repression against Cuban artists.
In an interview here last week, Jose Horta said that he feared for his safety if he returned before there was "a complete change in the policy of the Cuban Government." 
 "The festival has always been very open, very liberal, and now I think for some people that doesn't go down very well," he said.
Dressed in a blue blazer and black jeans, Mr. Horta said that shortly after boarding a plane in Havana on June 18, he was pulled off by security officers, his passport was taken and his baggage was unloaded and searched. He was not interrogated, but neither did his accusers tell him what they were looking for or why. Eventually they returned his passport and allowed him to leave. He flew to Mexico City, and a few days later sought refuge in Miami.
"The only thing I know," he said, "is that it wasn't a mistake and it wasn't a coincidence. It was deliberate and it was directed at me personally." Recently, he said, several paintings have been stolen from the national film institute where he works, and one of his assistants has been detained by the authorities without evidence. But he said he did not believe he was also a suspect in the case.
 
A Guess at the Cause
 Mr. Horta said some of his current trouble might be connected to a film that had its premiere in December's film festival. "Strawberry and Chocolate," by Tomas Gutierrez Alea, is the first Cuban film with an openly gay protagonist. A tale of intolerance in Cuban society, the film became a test of President Fidel Castro's willingness to look the other way.
The film won the top award at the festival, and more than a million Cubans have paid to see it. The film was recently acquired by Miramax Films, which plans to release it in the United States in January.
The Cuban film industry has had the support of the Casto Government almost from the beginning. Within months after the 1959 revolution that brought Mr. Castro to power, a national film institute was established.
The film festival, featuring new Latin American films, began in 1979 and has been a lavish demonstration of Mr. Casto's on-again, off-again willingness to tolerate criticism. International stars like Robert Redford and Arnold Schwarzenegger have attended the festival, held each December, and one of the most prized tickets customarily has been an invitation to a reception given by Mr. Castro at the national palace.
Cuba's artistic freedom has been scaled back since Soviet economic aid was withdrawn a few years ago and the island became increasingly unstable. Mr. Horta said he has had to reduce festival expenses, and last year had to ask the authorities not to cut the electricity while festival films were being shown.
The 42-year-old Mr. Horta has directed the festival for 16 years and has been influential in sustaining Cuba's film industry under Communism. He said that he never felt outright Government censorship but that the system had its own constraints, with artists generally knowing how far they could go without getting into trouble. Three years ago, an irreverent film called "Alice in Wondertown" was released for a few days and then withdrawn by the Government.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jose Horta, head of the Havana Film Festival, in Mexico City. (Keith Dannemiller for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: CUBA (97%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (97%); MEXICO (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; FESTIVALS; HAVANA FILM FESTIVAL; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ASYLUM (POLITICAL) FILM (91%); FESTIVALS (90%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (77%); REFUGEES (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); IMMIGRATION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (73%); 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY; HORTA, JOSE FIDEL CASTRO (78%); ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



696 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 424 words

HEADLINE: Constructive Chaos in Japan

 BODY:
Tsutomu Hata, who resigned last weekend after just nine weeks on the job, is the third Japanese Prime Minister to quit in the past year. Such instability is frustrating to the Clinton Administration, which has to conduct trade negotiations and coordinate Korea policy with officials who may be out of office before deals are ready to be clinched.
But the rapid turnover also reflects something positive, a broad realignment of Japanese political life away from one-party dominance and toward democratic competition. That shift should make future governments more responsive to ordinary consumers and less beholden to bureaucracy and special interests. Over the long run, that ought to ease relations between Tokyo and Washington. 
 More immediately, Mr. Hata's fall is a setback for the broad opposition coalition that succeeded the long-ruling Liberal Democrats last August. Ranging from left-wing Socialists to right-wing conservatives, the coalition was too diverse to be anything but temporary. It splintered the day Mr. Hata took office. Rightist and centrist groups joined forces in an attempt to convert the coalition into a second conservative party, able to compete directly with the Liberal Democrats. The Socialists, feeling squeezed out, then broke ranks, leaving Mr. Hata with only a minority in Parliament. The first serious challenge brought him down.
The Socialists will now likely determine the next Prime Minister. Mr. Hata could conceivably return to office by wooing them back. Or they could cut a deal with the Liberal Democrats, helping the old ruling party back to power. Either arrangement would be a marriage of convenience. But either would make it possible to postpone new elections until the breakthrough political reform bill passed in January takes full effect, bringing more representative districts and tighter contribution limits.
The Socialists are difficult partners, caught in a cold war time warp, opposed to any foreign policy assertiveness, suspicious of market initiatives and hard to please on fiscal policy. But they also represent the pacifist, cautious opinions of many Japanese. Accommodating their views is, at least for now, a parliamentary necessity. Yet unless they can transform themselves into something other than a negative, obstructive force, their electoral future looks bleak.
Several elections under the new system will be needed to complete Japan's political realignment and restore governmental stability. For Americans, as for Japanese, it should be worth the wait.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: THE SOCIALISTS (82%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (79%); 

ORGANIZATION: THE SOCIALISTS (82%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); COLD WAR (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HATA, TSUTOMO (PRIME MIN) BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



697 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 29, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Requests by Charities Overwhelm Restaurants

BYLINE: By BRYAN MILLER 

 BODY:
LIKE a benevolent urban stroller who has been confronted by one too many mendicants, restaurants and related businesses across the country are balking at the overwhelming number of requests they receive from charities for free meals and services.
"It's absolutely out of control," said Jeremiah Tower, the celebrated chef and owner of Stars and Stars Cafe in San Francisco. 
 David Bouley, the chef and owner of his namesake restaurant in New York, said, "It's really become crazy."
Both chefs pointed out that solicitations from fund-raisers have surged in the last three to five years to the point where they can hardly acknowledge all of them, much less participate. In 1990, the two chefs said, they received about two or three charity requests a day. Today Mr. Bouley receives five or more, while Mr. Tower gets up to 10. Most requests seek free meals at the restaurant that can be auctioned at a charity event. Sometimes, chefs' services -- cooking in a private home or at a party -- are sold as a way to raise money.
As a result of the increase in requests, restaurateurs say they are forced to turn down more nonprofit organizations than ever. Not only are the requests overwhelming, they say, but restaurant profit margins are considerably lower than they were a decade ago.
To deal with the situation, restaurateurs are much more selective about whom they assist, often preferring local organizations or those with whom they have a special relationship. For Alison Price, owner of the restaurant Alison on Dominick Street in New York, that could be an organization that works against hunger or illiteracy. For Mr. Bouley, it could be Planned Parenthood.
Fund-raisers say small organizations are feeling the squeeze more than large established groups that can offer restaurants high-profile exposure. All charitable organizations are working harder and targeting their potential donors more strategically than in the free-spending 1980's.
Mr. Tower says it is impossible to say yes to everyone. "If you were to say yes to just half of the biggest benefits, you would be spending a fifth of your time outside of the restaurant, not to mention what it would cost you," he said.
Mr. Tower, who says his restaurants have donated more than $1 million just in goods in the last 10 years, says he has begun to curtail his charity work and has cut back on charity-related travel. "In the peak years, I went to 20 to 30 major events a year," he recalled. "This year I may go to 10."
There are no reliable statistics that measure the food industry's charitable activities. Professional fund-raisers across the country, though, agreed that restaurateurs have always been generous. In a way, they point out, restaurants created their own problem by eagerly embracing charities in the 1980's and doing such an efficient job that they became irresistible targets.
Mr. Bouley, who has had to assign an employee to deal with all the requests that come in, said:"Ideally, I'd like to do all of them. But now they come from all over -- a school in Texas, hospitals from far away. You want to give back, but . . . " Auctions at which the prize is Mr. Bouley cooking dinner at the winner's home have fetched as much as $4,000.
But many professional fund-raisers say those days may be coming to an end.
"I think all fund-raising is becoming harder," said Liz Berger, who organizes an annual fund-raising event for Manhattan Dance Space, a nonprofit performance center. This spring the event included Mr. Bouley and fellow chef Jonathan Waxman, the Savoy restaurant in SoHo and Dean & Deluca, the retail store. Ms. Berger's good relations with Mr. Bouley in previous years, combined with the neighborhood aspect of the function, persuaded him to participate. Her personal connections with the others helped as well, she said.
"A small organization needs a big-ticket event, but that takes a lot of money and effort to organize and we are not in a position to do that," Ms. Berger said. "So we use chefs, who have developed sort of a cult status. The difference today is that we are working much harder to get the right chefs to participate."
Mr. Bouley says he now limits his altruistic work to specific groups like the 24 eighth graders from his old elementary school in Willimantic, Conn., that he invited for lunch, or to organizations like Planned Parenthood and hospitals.
Like many leading restaurants in New York City, Bouley helps nationally known organizations like Citymeals-on-Wheels, Save Our Strength and the March of Dimes because it has longstanding relationships with them.
One of the carrots charity organizations hold out to restaurants is the prospect of free publicity and exposure to potential new customers. The truth is, say restaurateurs, that publicity is minimal because the events have become routine, no longer worthy of major coverage by the media. As for new customers, virtually every restaurateur interviewed agreed that the rewards were negligible at best.
"They don't come back, generally," Ms. Price said of the top bidders at auctions. "Many are from out of town; others just come for the free dinner."
Ms. Price, whose small 56-seat French restaurant receives about eight requests a week from charities, remarked that generous giving had become a serious financial strain, especially on modest-size establishments in relatively frugal times.
"People don't realize that when we give away a table for two we lose the potential revenue from that table, and we need the profit from six other dinners to make up for it," she said. Two years ago, Alison on Dominick Street gave away about $25,000 in free meals and services, Ms. Price said. "Today, frankly, I can hardly do any of them, unless it is something I really care about or involves a good customer," she said.
Professional fund-raisers pointed out that food purveyors and wine companies often derive the least benefit from such events because guests pay more attention to the celebrity chefs than to the products.
"If charities worked, we would be selling a lot of wine," said Linda Johnson, executive director of the Sonoma County Wineries Association, in a recent article in Wine Business Monthly, a trade journal. "But charities have a lot of distractions to wine sales. You taste the wine and go talk to people, but you don't stand there and examine the wine."
Lewis Perdue, publisher of Wine Business Monthly, added: "Wineries are getting much more cautious. It has become a problem as wine auctions have proliferated. It used to be we had only two or so, but now all sorts of people -- even TV stations -- see wine auctions as a new way to raise money."
Shafer Vineyards in Napa, Calif., receives some 400 donation requests annually; a neighbor, Beringer Vineyards, receives a similar flood. Beringer is now redefining its charity policy to emphasize organizations within a 25-mile radius of the vineyard.
Some wine makers are even beginning to seek some sort of quid pro quo for their donations. Chateau Montelena in the Napa Valley is spearheading a campaign to make soliciting charities sign a letter expressing support for the wine industry. The charities are also asked to agree in writing that moderate wine consumption is healthful for most people.
Arienne Daguin, an owner of D'Artagnan, a Jersey City purveyor of foie gras and game to fine restaurants, says she receives up to 60 requests a month from charities for food donations. In May alone, she estimated, the company gave away $6,000 worth of products, which is a little higher than the average.
"I am getting tougher; I have to," Ms. Daguin said. "We are getting hit on two sides: by the charity and by the chefs who get involved in charities."
A pioneer in linking charities to the restaurant industry was the March of Dimes, which in 1978 held its first Gourmet Gala in the Waldorf-Astoria. Leading chefs from New York City cooked for the well-heeled guests. The gala just broke even. By 1988, however, the New York Gourmet Gala netted $800,000. The most recent gala, last fall, earned about $700,000, said Albert Hudes, a fund-raising consultant to the March of Dimes. Mr. Hudes attributed the event's diminished revenues to a relatively slack economy combined with possible overexposure of chefs on the charity circuit.
A lot of organizations copied the gala formula in the 1980's, Mr. Hudes said, adding, "It was so easy then."
By going to restaurants for help, fund-raisers say, groups could avoid having to hire caterers, rent spaces and deal with deliveries.
Everyone agrees that new ideas for generating funds need to be developed. Ms. Price, for one, has discussed other approaches with her chef. "We talked about doing all kinds of different things, like going fishing with the chef for a day," she said. "That would be fun, no?"

CORRECTION-DATE: July 4, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in The Living Section on Wednesday about restaurants' effort to cope with requests from charitable groups misidentified a group that raises money through restaurant benefits. It is Danspace Project at St. Mark's Church in the Bowery, not Manhattan Dance Space.

GRAPHIC: Drawings. (pgs. C1 & C6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; PHILANTHROPY RESTAURANTS (92%); FUNDRAISING (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); AUCTIONS (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (50%); 

PERSON: MILLER, BRYAN DAVID BOULEY (96%); LIZ BERGER (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1994



698 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 534 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

CITY HOSPITALS WILL BATTLE FOR PATIENTS
New York City's public hospital system is losing some of its Medicaid patients -- patients nobody else used to want -- and will fight back with its first major marketing campaign, the head of the Health and Hospitals Corporation said. A1.
 
NEW YORK CITY
 
TRANSIT UNION HEAD LIFTS WALKOUT THREAT
The president of the union representing subway and bus workers said he would not call a walkout when the union's contract expires, so long as the talks continue moving forward. B3. 

QUALITY-OF-LIFE OFFENSES BRING ARRESTS
Thirty-three people were arrested in a crackdown on so-called quality-of-life offenses. They had failed to pay summonses for such transgressions as drinking and urinating in public. B3.
 
GIULIANI ASKS LEGISLATURE TO KILL BILLS
Mayor Giuliani pleaded with state leaders to kill union-sponsored bills that he said would dig new holes in the city budget only days after he and the City Council closed a $2.3 billion gap. B3.
 
CLASH OVER SELECTION OF BOND ADVISERS
The Giuliani administration and Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi clashed over selection of financial advisers to help market the city's bonds. B3.
 
BOY'S DEATH FROM PITCH CALLED RARE
The death of a 12-year-old Brooklyn boy who was hit by a baseball thrown by a pitching machine appeared to be a highly unusual occurrence, according to Federal safety records, youth athletic officials and physicians. B3.
 
VOLUNTARY DEBATES ARE PROPOSED
The independent agency that administers the city's campaign financing law proposed a voluntary program under which candidates would be asked to agree to debate their opponents. B6.
 
UNDERCOVER OFFICER SHOT BY COLLEAGUE
An undercover detective involved in a drug search in a Bronx pool hall was shot by another detective on the same team, who apparently did not recognize him. B8.
 
BLUE CROSS MAY GIVE UP NONPROFIT STATUS
Reversing a 60-year tradition of nonprofit health service, the national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association said it would allow its members to become for-profit companies. Business Day, D1.
 
REGION
 
JURY POOLS ARE EXPANDED
Seeking to place more members of minority groups and more poor people onto juries, the New York State Legislature passed a measure that would allow jurors to be drawn from unemployment and welfare rolls. B4.
 
16 CHARGED IN DRUG CONSPIRACY
Sixteen people said to be members of the Latin Kings gang were charged with conspiring to sell drugs in Connecticut's largest cities. B7.
 
JURORS TELL OF FRICTION IN MURDER TRIAL
They tried logic. They tried tenderness. They pleaded with her and shrieked at her. But for seven days, one headstrong juror barely budged from her conviction that Paul Cox did not intend to murder a Larchmont couple in 1988. B7.
 
NASSAU FAILS TO SET UP LEGISLATURE
Nassau County officials failed to reach agreement on the districts for a new county legislature, making it likely that a Federal judge will impose a plan of his own. B7.
 
New York's blunt-speaking Corrections Commissioner announced his retirement. B5.
 
Before an audience of bankers, Mario M. Cuomo didn't give his typical speech. B7.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Manhattan Mortgages" tracks average interest rates for 30-year fixed-rate and 1-year adjustable-rate loans for Manhattan co-ops and condominiums. Graph runs from mid-1992 through April 1994. (Source: Manhattan Mortgage Company)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (81%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

COMPANY: BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (81%); MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS HOSPITALS (90%); CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); MEDICAID (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BONDS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); MURDER (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); MAYORS (77%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (76%); LABOR UNIONS (76%); ARRESTS (75%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (75%); BASEBALL (75%); JURY DUTY (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); SHOOTINGS (73%); BUDGETS (72%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (71%); GANGS (60%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



699 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 603 words

HEADLINE: Senate Votes Bill Widening Pool of Jurors

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 29

 BODY:
Seeking to place more members of minority groups and more poor people onto juries, the New York State Legislature today passed a measure that for the first time would allow jurors to be drawn from unemployment and welfare rolls.
Currently, juries are selected using lists of registered drivers, registered voters and state and local taxpayers. But in many parts of the state, particularly urban areas, lawyers and judges have complained that the juror pool is too small or does not accurately reflect the local community. 
 "There are a lot of people in urban communities who aren't reached because they don't drive, don't vote or don't pay taxes," said Judith S. Kaye, the Chief Judge of the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, and a longtime advocate of improving jury selection. "Obviously the most desirable thing is to have as broad representation as possible. It divides the benefits and burdens fairly.'
The bill, if signed into law by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, would potentially increase the state's juror pool by over one million adults, state officials estimated.
 
Was Vetoed Previously
 Governor Cuomo vetoed similar legislation last year because he said it breached state and Federal laws requiring strict confidentiality for people receiving welfare or unemployment insurance. Elizabeth D. Moore, Mr. Cuomo's counsel, said today the new version seemed to have addressed Mr. Cuomo's concerns.
"We've been told he'll sign it," said Senator Joseph R. Holland, a Spring Valley Republican who sponsored the bill in the Republican-led Senate, which passed the bill today.
The Democratic-controlled Assembly passed an identical bill sponsored by Assemblyman Arthur O. Eve, a Buffalo Democrat, in March.
The legislation would mark a fundamental change in the way juries are chosen, Judge Kaye and other legal experts said. It will mean not only that juries will be more diverse, they said, but also that people will be called for jury duty less often because more jurors will be available.
But the bill falls well short of the sweeping reforms proposed by a state panel earlier this year. That panel, appointed by Judge Kaye, recommended increasing jury duty pay, ending exemptions for certain professions and reducing the time that jurors wait before being picked for trial.
 
Broad Backing
 The bill has received support from a diverse group that included trial lawyers, advocates for the poor, advocates for welfare reform, the League of Women Voters and the state's leading judges.
Many judges and trial lawyers argued that expanding the juror pool would help speed trials, which now are often slowed by the lack of available jurors.
"I have seen cases delayed for weeks because of the unavailability of jurors," said Stephan H. Peskin, president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association. "In some counties they dry up; you just can't get them."
Black and Hispanic legislators backed the bill because they said it would help ensure that the court system was more accessible and fairer to the poor and members of minorities. And advocates for welfare reform said the legislation could give people on public assistance a valuable taste of public service.
"In a sense, it brings some people more into the mainstream," said Mr. Holland.
Mr. Holland said the new version of the bill would address Mr. Cuomo's concerns about confidentiality by masking which state agency provided a juror's name. That way, court administrators would not know whether a potential juror was drawn from, say, a list of registered drivers or a list of people receiving unemployment insurance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: VALLEY REPUBLICAN (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: COURTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; JURY SYSTEM JURY TRIALS (93%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VETO (90%); JURY DUTY (90%); LAWYERS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); JUDGES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (77%); SUPREME COURTS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (69%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES MARIO M CUOMO (90%); JOSEPH R HOLLAND (72%); JUDITH S KAYE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



700 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
A deal in which CBS would merge with QVC is being negotiated between Barry Diller, chairman of QVC Network, and Laurence A. Tisch, chairman of CBS, people familiar with the discussions said. [Page A1.] CBS was ripe for change after it lost affiliated stations to Fox. New Analysis. [D6.] Mr. Diller's move didn't surprise Hollywood executives, who expect the unexpected from him. [D6.] Mr. Tisch has done well in his investment in CBS. [D7.]
Bell Atlantic and Nynex plan to merge their cellular companies into a single business that would operate from Maine to Virginia. The deal would create a cellular telephone giant second only to the alliance planned by AT&T and McCaw Cellular. [A1.] 
 The national Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association will allow its members to become for-profit companies, reversing a 60-year practice of being not-for-profit services. [D1.]
Merrill Lynch agreed to pay a total of $4 million to more than 3,600 investors to settle accusations that a unit improperly profited on the customers' investments in convertible securities. [D2.]
Sanofi of France agreed to sell Sterling Winthrop's medical imaging unit for $450 million to Hafslund Nyconed of Norway. [D5.]
Johnson & Johnson has begun shipping the first home-test kit for cholesterol. [D5.]
Pennsylvania is expected to move to revoke the insurance licenses of three former Metropolitan Life agents. [D5.]
The Dart family filed a lawsuit in Federal court seeking to force Brazil to repay $1.4 billion of bonds held by the family. [D5.]
 
The Economy
Sioux City, S.D., is a kind of workers' paradise, with the nation's lowest unemployment rate. At a time when economists and policy-makers are concerned about the negative effects of economic change, South Dakota's biggest city offers a laboratory of sorts to test theories on tight labor markets, including the relationship between unemployment and inflation. [D1.]
The F.C.C. voted to set aside more than 1,000 new radio licenses for small businesses, women and members of minority groups to operate new wireless telephone and data services. [D1.]
 
Markets
The dollar continued its slide against the Japanese yen. But trading in the currency markets was light and orderly. [D1.]
Investors are seeking the safety of money market funds amid the turmoil in the world's financial markets. [D1.]
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed in thin trading. [D9.]
Despite the dollar's slump, stock prices were mixed. The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 2.59 points. [D10.]
Oil prices fell after a report showed that supplies in the Midwest had risen. Coffee prices surged for the third day. [D17.]
 
International
About 2,000 Japanese companies held their annual meetings without any violent acts by sokaiya, gangsters who extort money by threatening to disrupt the proceedings. The calm was made possible by the presence of 11,455 police officers at the meetings. [D9.]
 
Today's Columns
Technological imitation is more cost-effective than innovation, an economist argues, so the United States should put aside its pride and make it as easy as possible for business to borrow foreign technology. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Offshore drilling is now seen as a promising investment territory, after years of consolidation. Market Place. [D10.]
TBWA Advertising has hired a creative director whose best-known work is the Diet Coke commercials that used elaborate special effects to bring Humphrey Bogart, Louis Armstrong and Groucho Marx back to life. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D20.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: JNJ (NYSE) (67%); SNY (NYSE) (55%); SANF (BIT) (55%); SAN (PAR) (55%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (92%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (70%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (70%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (67%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (67%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

COMPANY: QVC INC (92%); BLUE CROSS & BLUE SHIELD ASSOCIATION (70%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (67%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); SANOFI SA (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); FRANCE (70%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (69%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); EXTORTION (82%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BONDS (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (75%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MUTUAL FUNDS (71%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (71%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); STOCK INDEXES (64%); LITIGATION (64%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (64%); COFFEE MARKETS (61%); COFFEE (61%); PRICE INCREASES (60%); OIL & GAS PRICES (60%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (58%); TELEPHONE EQUIPMENT MFG (55%); 

PERSON: BARRY DILLER (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



701 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 7; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Cuomo Wants Business To See Him as a Friend

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, June 29

 BODY:
They weren't your typical Mario M. Cuomo constituents, these 300 bankers dressed in golfing plaids and Wall Street blues, most of them card-carrying Republicans. But, then, this wasn't your typical Mario M. Cuomo speech.
The Democratic Governor cited Abraham Lincoln but sounded more like another Republican President, Ronald Reagan, as he spoke to bankers recently at Saratoga Springs, advocating deregulation, privatization and maximizing corporate profits. "You are the answer to our problems," he said. "You are the tools we need to meet our challenges." 
 As he has begun campaigning in earnest for a fourth term, Mr. Cuomo is using his speeches, legislative clout and policy mandates to elevate one message above the din of many others: he's a friend to business.
 
Down in Polls
 Those who know Mr. Cuomo best for his passionate advocacy for the poor and his close ties to labor might find such chamber-of-commerce talk perplexing. But consider the politics of 1994: the state is just rising from deep recession, Mr. Cuomo is down in some polls and considered vulnerable on economic issues, and his chief Republican rival is painting him as a tax-and-spend liberal whose policies have cost the state half a million jobs.
"The bang against him will be he's anti-business," said a political adviser to Mr. Cuomo, speaking on condition of anonymity. "That's not true. But he has to make as positive a statement for business as he can."
Mr. Cuomo has done just that in a flurry of recent appearances with business executives and groups to tout three things: an expanding job base, a state budget that includes $470 million in tax cuts and an economic recovery he says will bring the state back to the soaring prosperity of the 1980's.
Along the way, he has promised to hold down state fees, avoid new regulation of business and to sponsor legislation that he says will make New York "aggressively hospitable to business."
"Why do you want to be more hospitable to business?" he said at a Binghamton aerospace company two weeks ago. "Because it is everything. If they succeed, we succeed."
 
Fast Footwork
 At times, Mr. Cuomo's efforts have involved some fast political footwork. Having once called the nation's military spending "excessive" in a memorable 1984 speech to the Democratic National Convention, Mr. Cuomo recently told military contractors in Binghamton that he would work with the Congressional delegations from New York, Texas and California to protect the B-2 bomber program. The bombers, which cost $2 billion each, have been criticized as wasteful and unnecessary by some in Congress.
"I'm absolutely convinced on the merits that it doesn't make sense to end the B-2 program as scheduled," Mr. Cuomo said.
In many forums, Mr. Cuomo has described himself as a victim of George Bush and Mr. Reagan, contending that their economic policies brought on a national recession. Yetin Saratoga Springs Mr. Cuomo made a bipartisan comparison of his declining popularity with that of Mr. Bush, suggesting that both their reputations have been sullied by economic forces beyond their control. .
"If everything is good and you're in place, you're a George Bush with a 90 percent rating because you just beat Saddam Hussein," Mr. Cuomo said. "But if you're there when everything goes bad, you're George Bush with a 29 percent rating because they just announced that my brother-in-law has been fired and he's coming to live with me. And that's called unemployment and you've got to blame somebody."
 
Stepping on Toes
 Mr. Cuomo has done more than make speeches about business, and in the process he has stepped on the toes of some traditional Democratic constituencies, including consumer groups, environmentalists and labor unions.
He was a leading proponent of a package of business tax cuts in the $34 billion state budget passed three weeks ago. Groups representing organized labor have raised concerns that the cuts, worth more than $1 billion when fully put in place over three years, will make it harder to work out a budget and force the State Legislature to reduce services.
He has lobbied for legislation to limit a type of lawsuit, known as derivatives, brought by shareholders against corporate boards for wrongdoing. The bill's leading proponents, General Electric and the Business Council of New York State, say the bill would end frivolous litigation. But consumer advocates like the New York Public Interest Research Group say that it would virtually eliminate an important check on corporate abuses.
He has advocated creating a hybrid business entity -- a limited liability company -- that would possess the liability protections of corporations but have the lower tax rates of partnerships. The proposal would help accounting firms and certain financial-service concerns, both of which have lobbied strongly for it, but some lawmakers contend that it could reduce tax revenues by tens of millions of dollars each year.
 
Attacking Pollution
 And he has said proposed Federal regulations intended to reduce pollution in the Great Lakes could impose unnecessary and costly burdens for towns and industries. Aides to Mr. Cuomo assert that New York already has tough water-pollution regulations and that some of the new rules would be difficult to administer. Several major corporations, including Eastman Kodak and International Paper, have made similar arguments.
But environmental groups say Mr. Cuomo's stance may slow the Great Lakes cleanup. Lee Wasserman, executive director of the Environmental Planning Lobby, said Mr. Cuomo's letter "sounded like it came right out of Kodak's word processor."
Republicans suggest that Mr. Cuomo is a recent convert to ideas like privatization and deregulation, arguing that he has little to show for his contention that "we have led the world in privatization."
"The difference bewteen George Pataki and Mario Cuomo is while Mario Cuomo is still thinking about privatization, George Pataki will get it done." said Caroline Quartararo, a spokeswoman for State Senator George E. Pataki, the endorsed Republican candidate for governor.
 
Market Factors
 In his speeches, Mr. Cuomo says that he has promoted privatization and deregulation since the mid-1980's but that the recession, market factors and a balky Legislature have slowed his efforts. He also bridles against suggestions that it is out of character for a Democrat with liberal roots to sound pro-business.
"I laugh about the labels: Democrats, Republicans, conservatives, liberals," he told the bankers in Saratoga Springs. "That you talk about in campaigns. You don't govern that way."
Some Democrats warn that Mr. Cuomo risks alienating Democratic loyalists like labor unions by working for business groups whose support remains in question. "He's working like mad for guys who will stab him in the back," said one Democratic Assemblyman.
But others suggest that Mr. Cuomo has little to lose because unions have nowhere else to turn this fall.
"His standing with the unions improves every day when they get a closer examination of Rudy Giuliani and Christie Whitman," said Jan D. Pierce, vice president of the Communication Workers of America.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (85%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (85%); ALBANY, NY, USA (67%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); PRIVATIZATION (76%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GOLF (73%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); BUDGETS (72%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); TAX LAW (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); RECESSION (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); DEFENSE SPENDING (68%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) RONALD REAGAN (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



702 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1457 words

HEADLINE: TURNOVER IN JAPAN: THE OVERVIEW;
SURPRISE ALLIANCE PICKS A SOCIALIST AS JAPAN'S LEADER

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 29

 BODY:
The conservatives who controlled Japan for four decades until their ouster last summer swept back into power tonight, forging an alliance with their oldest ideological enemy by electing the head of the Socialist Party, Tomiichi Murayama, as Prime Minister.
The bizarre partnership between the Liberal Democratic Party and the Socialists stunned the country and prompted immediate fears that whatever halting progress had been made toward deregulating the economy and cleaning up a corruption-ridden political system could be slowed or reversed. 
 In Washington, officials reacted with dismay, saying that they made it virtually impossible to achieve progress soon in divisive trade talks in which the United States is seeking greater access to Japanese markets for American exports.
The currency markets seemed to agree. Betting that the new Government would do nothing to address Japan's $60 billion trade surplus with the United States, traders drove the dollar to a new postwar low of 98.8 yen.
[By early Thursday, the dollar had recovered a bit, to 99.13 yen. Business Day, page D1.]
The turbulent developments also seemed likely to slow or even reverse the deregulation of Japan's economy and efforts to reform its corruption-ridden electoral system.
Income tax cuts to stimulate the economy might be delayed, and there were questions about how much Japan would now cooperate with the United States on possible sanctions to stop North Korea's nuclear weapons program. [Page A10.]
Mr. Murayama, who is 70 years old and has no experience even in a cabinet post, won a dramatic 261 to 214 vote this evening to become Japan's fourth Prime Minister in a year and the first Socialist to lead the country since 1948.
In another strange twist, he defeated former Prime Minister Toshiki Kaifu, who just hours before the vote defected from the Liberal Democrats in outrage at their maneuver and was endorsed by the loose coalition of parties that has led the country for the past year.
The surprise naming of Mr. Murayama, after the resignation on Saturday of Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, was engineered by the conservative old guard, which knew it would be seen as a cynical ploy, but viewed it as the only hope of once again taking the reins of the country they controlled for 38 years.
"Finally, we have come back to power," Yoshiro Mori, a leader of the Liberal Democrats, said tonight to party members, seeming to make clear by his tone that his party -- and not the Socialists -- planned to call the shots in the new government.
It is unclear who among the Liberal Democrats, a party that is also deeply split, will be pulling the strings of the new Government. The party president, Yohei Kono, is considered weak. Several rightist members of the party defected rather than ally with a Socialist.
Only hours after the vote, the Liberal Democrats agreed to appoint what Mr. Murayama termed a "dovish cabinet" that would, for example, share the Socialists' aversion to a greater Japanese role in United Nations peacekeeping operations.
In Japanese politics, the combination of the Liberal Democrats and the Socialists is as unimaginable as a merger of the American religious right and the left wing of the Democratic Party, and some predict it will lead to the further splintering of both parties.
 
'It Is a Disaster'
 Japanese business leaders and many of the country's leading bureaucrats immediately denounced the election of Mr. Murayama, saying they feared it would mean paralysis in trade talks and security policy at a time of already tense relations with the United States.
"It is a disaster for us," a top official in one of Japan's most powerful ministries said tonight. "We will be laughingstocks at the G-7," he added, alluding to the meeting next month in Italy of the leaders of seven major industrial nations.
In the absence of workable trade agreements, a weaker dollar may be the only option for the Clinton Administration's hopes to dramatically increase exports to Japan.
It was unclear whether the new Government, once formed, would try to dismantle or delay the legislation passed earlier this year to radically change the way electoral districts are organized. The new system would transfer more power to younger, urban voters, and the Liberal Democrats and the Socialists both fear that that shift could doom them by weakening the strength of their traditional constituencies.
Virtually no political players here believe the new alliance of left-wing Socialists and right-wing Liberal Democrats can last longer than a few months. Mr. Murayama and his party have always battled the Liberal Democrats, who have embodied Japan's conservative, anti-Communist establishment since 1955.
Though they have moved considerably to the right in recent years, in the past the Socialists have been supportive of North Korea and its rulers, highly protectionist and steadfast in opposition to Japan's security treaty with the United States.
Until Tuesday, when the first indications of the new alliance leaked out, Liberal Democrats regularly said that the Socialists were totally unfit to run the world's second largest industrial economy.
"I expect some of the party members may be embarrassed," Mr. Kono, the Liberal Democrats' leader, said tonight. "I hope they will understand our decision."
But by virtue of their sheer numbers, the Liberal Democrats will dominate the little-known politician now heading the country. Before tonight's vote there were more than 200 Liberal Democrats in the lower house of Parliament and only 74 Socialists.
Sensitive cabinet posts like the Foreign and Finance Ministries, the Defense Agency and the Ministry of International Trade and Industry are not likely to be entrusted to Socialists.
As recently as Tuesday, top officials were dismissing the possibility that Mr. Murayama, widely regarded as a left-leaning Socialist and inexperienced in policy matters, could actually become Prime Minister.
"Not a chance," a senior defense official here said with a laugh. A mid-level diplomat said that if Mr. Murayama became Prime Minister, "the bureaucrats would revolt, and he would sit at his desk with no one to tell him what to say."
 
A Desperation Move
 But in a crazed, murky day of backroom negotiations, the two parties came together out of desperation, fearing that unless they combined their votes, both parties would be split apart as the old political order here disintegrates.
Mr. Murayama was elected in a dramatic vote on the floor of Parliament just three hours before it was scheduled to go out of session. For Japanese voters, long accustomed to votes whose outcomes are known months in advance, it was a rare moment of real competition.
Many of Mr. Murayama's own party members refused to vote for him, and the first ballot failed to yield a decisive winner. On a second ballot, Mr. Murayama was elected, 261 to 214, over Mr. Kaifu, the former Prime Minister.
Mr. Kaifu, who served from 1989 to 1991, when he was removed by senior party leaders opposed to his support for measures to end corruption, was a surprise candidate because he had been a prominent member of the Liberal Democrats until two hours before the vote.
 
Embraced by Coalition
 He quit the party in disgust rather than endorse Mr. Murayama, and was immediately embraced by the six coalition parties that had governed Japan over the last year. Their hope was that his clean image would lure a number of Liberal Democrats.
Ultimately a number of prominent, conservative Liberal Democrats did defect -- including former Prime Minister Yasuhiro Nakasone and former Foreign Minister Michio Watanabe -- but there were not enough votes to defeat the combined forces of Japan's two largest political parties.
In public, the politicians who led the overthrow of the Liberal Democrats last year were angry and bitter. In private, though, the coalition's leaders said the reversion of power to the Liberal Democrats might create a public backlash that could help the coalition in the next election.
"The sight of Socialists and the L.D.P. as allies is just too Machiavellian, even for Japanese who are very lenient about philosophical differences," said Seizaburo Sato, a professor at Keio University who has strong ties to the country's old conservative leadership. "In the next election, both the L.D.P. and the Socialists will suffer very much."
The last Socialist Prime Minister was Tetsu Katayama, who served for eight months from 1947 to 1948. He was elected in the first general election under Japan's new constitution, during the American Occupation that followed World War II.
The Socialists spent the next 40 years in the political wilderness.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Former Premier Toshiki Kaifu, who was defeated by Tomiichi Murayama for Prime Minister. (Reuters) (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); SOCIALIST PARTY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (95%); SOCIALIST PARTY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); ETHICS POLITICS (91%); DEREGULATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); PROTECTIONISM (76%); ETHICS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CORRUPTION (71%); TRENDS (71%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); TAX LAW (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (52%); INCOME TAX (51%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E; MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (89%); CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



703 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Fleeing Haiti: For the Poor, Choices Are Limited

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LEOGANE, Haiti, June 29

 BODY:
Three years ago, five armed soldiers came knocking at Jean-Fritz Salame's door, looking for his father. But Mr. Salame's father, Louitenante, a low-level official in the political party of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, escaped through a back window.
The next night the soldiers returned looking for the son. But like his father, Mr. Salame slipped away. 
 "It's been a nightmare for me," said Mr. Salame, 17, who said his only chance for survival is a boat trip. "If I don't get out I will get killed."
For Wilson Jean, 26, escape by boat is a matter of economic survival. Mr. Jean, who is unemployed, has a wife and six children.
"I am going to go and take my chances," Mr. Jean said, discounting the fact that even if is picked up by the United States Coast Guard, he will be returned to Haiti regardless of his economic straits unless he can persuade immigration officers that he has been a victim of political persecution.
These men symbolize the pressures that have led thousands to flee since the September 1991 coup that ousted Father Aristide as President. And if thousands more take to sea, as few here doubt, it will bring yet another crisis for the Clinton Administration, which has struggled to find a workable Haiti policy.
Last year hundreds of boats were built here by Haitians waiting for the propitious moment. Now, with the Administration's more generous refugee policy, a punishing international embargo on Haiti and an increase in army-led terror, Haitians are making good on their promises.
All along the coast, fishing boats are being prepared. Most owners have no intention of getting to Florida. Their rickety vessels are barely able to make it 15 miles offshore, where a dozen Coast Guard cutters are on patrol. The refugees are taken to a United States Navy hospital ship anchored at Kingston, Jamaica, for asylum interviews.
On Tuesday, 755 Haitian boat people were picked up, pushing the total past 2,000 in two days.
 
Odds Seem to Improve
 This wave began shortly after President Clinton announced on May 8 that he was rescinding the policy of summarily returning Haitians without granting them interviews to determine whether they should be given refugee status. The exodus gathered steam after word that a third of those interviewed received asylum, a sharp increase from the earlier 5 percent rate among the boat people.
Also contributing to the flow is a further decline of the economy since a near-total ban on commercial flights and a ban on financial transactions with the United States.
While Haitians take to the seas, United States officials are urging those with political problems to seek asylum at processing centers in Haiti. Since February 1992, United States officials in Haiti have received 58,000 applications and interviewed 17,000 people, of whom 4,000 were given refugee status. But with the ban on flights, about 200 Haitians granted asylum have been stranded in Haiti.
Moreover, many Haitians are loath to stand in line outside the processing centers while soldiers drive by. Others say the process is too lengthy.
 
Luck Is a Big Factor
 For others, who readily admit they are fleeing misery rather than persecution, the slightest chance of finding a compassionate interviewer who will allow them into the United States is worth taking a flimsy boat. They have watched too many friends who fled for economic reasons gain entry.
"Everyone has his own luck," Mr. Jean said. "If I get to go to the United States, I could find a job and feed my children."
In Leogane, 20 miles south of Port-au-Prince, almost everyone said they would be taking a boat.
At a glance, Leogane seems quiet. The entrance to town, one of the many ports of departure for the boat people, is lined with two rows of palm trees. The road is unpaved and dusty and the pastoral town is peppered with mud huts, pastel gingerbread homes and cement houses. The people sell charcoal and the catch of the day.
But beneath that tranquility lies a more sinister place. Standing on the black-sand shores of Leogane, where several boats are being built and others stand ready for a voyage, residents describe a pattern of abuse by local military leaders.
They say that indiscriminate shootings have become part of everyday life, and that a group of even five people gathering publicly will be immediately dispersed by soldiers. Uttering the name of Father Aristide is considered the highest treason.
"Too many people have died," said Sauver Ouest, 52, who added that he would take a boat as soon as he could. "Clinton can send Aristide to deliver us. If he wants to free us he can, because Haiti is a little country."
Jean-Claude Foreste, 41, echoed these sentiments. Until the coup, his job was to affix pictures of President Aristide in offices and on poles.
Shortly after the coup, soldiers came looking for him. He fled La Gonave, an island off Leogane, and came here with his 10 children. Mr. Foreste said he had applied for asylum in Port-au-Prince but had not heard from anyone since the application, two years ago.
"The moment I find a boat leaving, I will take one," he said. "What I want the most is peace and security. I want to be somewhere until things change in my country. I want to take my children with me."
But some people, like Jerome Estaril, 45, said they would not take a boat because they know that they will be sent back. "I can't leave," he said. "I will only go if I am sure I will get to stay. I am only hungry and the United States does not want me."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Coast Guard cutter Hamilton stopped a boat laden with refugees on Saturday between Haiti and Cuba. (Pool photo by Agence France-Presse)
 
Map of Haiti showing locationof Leogane. (pg. A3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAMAICA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (59%); 

CITY: PIERRE, SD, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: US COAST GUARD (83%); US COAST GUARD (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: US COAST GUARD (83%); US COAST GUARD (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); JAMAICA (79%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (59%); PIERRE, SD, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ASYLUM (POLITICAL); FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES REFUGEES (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); COASTAL AREAS (88%); ARMIES (78%); COUPS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (75%); NAVAL VESSELS (75%); MARINE VESSELS (75%); NAVIES (75%); TRENDS (73%); MILITARY HOSPITALS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



704 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Continues Its Drop Against the Yen

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The dollar continued its record-breaking descent against the Japanese yen yesterday. But the drop, which occurred in light, orderly trading, did little to upset other financial markets.
The selling began in Asia after Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen, reiterated something the foreign-exchange market already knew -- that Japan's political turmoil was slowing progress in America's trade talks with Tokyo. 
 "It obviously slows the process down until they get their people in place to negotiate," Mr. Bentsen said in response to a question at a Foreign Policy Association dinner in New York. "We do not see the progress at this point that we were hoping for."
In a speech he delivered at the dinner on Tuesday night, Mr. Bentsen offered a vigorous defense of the dollar and said it was not the Clinton Administration's intent to use a weaker dollar as leverage in trade talks with the Japanese.
Nevertheless, the dollar tumbled. In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 98.80 yen, down from 100.05 yen late Tuesday, after hitting its latest post-World War II low of 98.55 yen yesterday afternoon.
In Tokyo early today, the dollar edged up slightly to 99.10 yen.
But yesterday's sharp drop continued a decline that over the last 18 months has lopped off more than 20 percent of the dollar's value against the yen as Japan's trade surplus with the United States has swelled.
Analysts said that yesterday's election of Tomiichi Murayama, chairman of Japan's Social Democratic Party, as the next Prime Minister made it unlikely that bilateral trade negotiations with the Japanese would be resolved anytime soon.
"The Bentsen comments reiterated all that the market was already thinking," one currency trader said. "At this point the market is very negative and very bearish, and is always on the lookout for additional reasons to sell."
Robert Hormats, vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International, attended Tuesday night's dinner. "Bentsen said exactly the right thing, and was stating the obvious," he said. "The Japanese Government is in a period of enormous uncertainty, and that will draw out the trade talks."
In an interview yesterday, Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, said, "How this change of Government in Japan -- the fourth Prime Minister we have had to deal with in less than a year -- is going to affect the negotiations is subject to anyone's guess."
Despite its slide against the yen, the dollar was fairly stable against most other currencies, and even rose a bit against the German mark. But traders said the dollar's rise against the mark was more reflective of a weaker mark against the yen.
"There was not a lot of dollar-buying against the mark," another trader said. "There was a lot of mark-selling against the yen."
In New York, the dollar was last quoted at 1.5865 marks, up from 1.5787 marks late Tuesday.
In another bit of positive news, stock and bond traders, who have been reacting nervously to the dollar's fall against the yen, took yesterday's slide in stride.
Traders agreed that if financial markets were able to maintain a semblance of stability in the wake of further dollar weakness, monetary authorities would be likely to postpone taking any steps that might shore up the currency until sometime next month.
Over the course of the next 10 days, financial markets will need to digest a heavy diet of fresh information, including new economic statistics as well as meetings of the Federal Reserve Board's policy-making Open Market Committee in Washington and the Group of Seven finance ministerial session in Naples.
Many traders believe the Fed will eventually raise short-term interest rates. A rate increase, in turn, would likely push up the value of the dollar by making dollar-denominated interest-bearing investments more attractive to international investors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); FOREIGN POLICY ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%); GERMANY (73%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); US DOLLAR (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GERMAN MARK (85%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); POLITICS (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); FOREIGN POLICY (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); WORLD WAR II (52%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



705 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 278 words

HEADLINE: 3.4% U.S. Growth in Quarter

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The economy grew at an annual rate of 3.4 percent in the first three months of this year, led by surprising continued strength in consumer spending, the Government said today.
While the economy slowed drastically from the growth rate of 7 percent at the end of last year, analysts said the pace of expansion was solid, if unspectacular. Many said they expected that the economy would at least duplicate the performance of the first three months in the current quarter that ends on Thursday. 
 A month ago, the Commerce Department estimated that the gross domestic product, the total value of goods and services produced in the United States, rose 3 percent in the first quarter of 1994. The upward revision today exceeded the expectations of most economists.
The Commerce Department attributed the revision to an additional $5.6 billion in consumer spending and $2.3 billion in business investment. These more than offset a drop in public spending and a decline in exports.
There was only moderate inflation in the first three months this year, the Commerce Department said. An inflation index tied to the gross domestic product rose at a rate of 2.6 percent, compared with 1.3 percent for the final three months of 1993.
Economic expansion was held down by the harsh winter in much of the nation and the Los Angeles earthquake.
The Commerce Department also said that after-tax corporate profits in the first quarter fell to an annualized $287.5 billion, down 2.8 percent from the last quarter of 1993, after a 7.9 percent rise the previous three months. The lower corporate profits were the first since an 11.2 percent drop in the third quarter of 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR) ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); CONSUMER SPENDING (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



706 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE: SPENDING LIMITS;
House Panel Backs Health Cost Controls

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The House Ways and Means Committee has endorsed legislation that would, for the first time, set annual limits on health spending for the nation as a whole and for each state.
If any state exceeded its limit, the Federal Government would enforce strict price controls on doctors, hospitals, prescription drugs and the rest of the private health care industry in that state. 
 The cost controls are part of a comprehensive measure to overhaul the nation's health care system. The bill seeks to slow the increase in per capita private health spending so it grows no faster than the economy as a whole; in recent years, it has been growing nearly twice as fast.
Other Congressional committees working on health care legislation have also included measures to slow the growth of health spending. But the Ways and Means Committee is one of the most influential, and its proposal is the most extensive.
The committee approved these cost controls on Tuesday over strenuous objections from the American Hospital Association and the American Medical Association, which said the new regulations would freeze in place all the flaws and inefficiencies of the existing health care system.
 
Hospitals' Objection
 Michael J. Rock, a lobbyist for the American Hospital Association, noted that the bill would slice up the nation's health care spending into 10 categories and set separate budget goals for each. This, he said, runs counter to trends revolutionizing the health care industry. Under these trends, consumers and employers typically pay a lump sum to an insurance company or a group of doctors or hospitals for all the care needed by a person or a group of people.
But supporters of the measure maintained that doctors and hospitals would not work seriously to keep costs down unless they faced the possibility of price controls.
Another potential problem is that the Federal Government has only rough estimates of health spending in each state. Under current law, the Government is not required to tabulate spending by state, and it has had no pressing need for such data.
But consumer groups and labor unions support the cost controls as precisely the type of shock therapy needed for the health care system.
 
Medicare as Model
 The price controls the committee envisions for the private health care industry are modeled after techniques already used to pay doctors and hospitals treating patients under Medicare, the Federal health insurance program for the elderly and the disabled. Representative Pete Stark, the California Democrat who heads the Ways and Means Subcommittee on Health, said these formulas had effectively slowed the growth of Medicare, a contention many Republicans vehemently disputed.
President Clinton proposed a different type of controls on health spending. Under his proposal, the Government would limit annual increases in health insurance premiums, on the assumption that insurers would then force doctors and hospitals to accept lower payments than they would otherwise get.
The Senate Committee on Labor and Human Resources, headed by Edward M. Kennedy, follows the approach recommended by Mr. Clinton. Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, chairman of the Finance Committee, wants to set annual goals for increases in private health insurance premiums, but he would let Congress decide at a later date what steps should be taken if the actual increases exceeded the goals.
In the Ways and Means Committee, no aspect of health care legislation has generated fiercer debate than the plan for spending limits and "standby price controls."
Representative Michael A. Andrews, a moderate Democrat from Texas, proposed eliminating the entire cost-control regime. All 14 Republicans supported his effort, but he lost by 20 to 18. The failure of the proposal had the effect of endorsing the cost controls in the original bill, which is expected to come to a vote on Thursday.
The committee's acting chairman, Representative Sam M. Gibbons of Florida, won over a few wavering Democrats by giving Congress a chance to re-examine the issue in the year 2000. But if Congress did nothing, and if health spending in any state exceeded the goal for that state, then the price controls would take effect in that state in 2001.
Representative Nancy L. Johnson, Republican of Connecticut, described the spending limits as Draconian and said no industrial country had curbed health spending as severely as the bill would require.
But Gerald M. Shea, director of employee benefits at the A.F.L.-C.I.O., said a regulatory mechanism, including the threat of price controls, was needed to force providers to bargain seriously with the consumers and purchasers of health care.
"Even with all the competition in the world," Mr. Shea said, "we couldn't get costs in line as fast as we need for the good of the economy" if there was no threat of Government regulation.
 
H.M.O.'s Included
 Mr. Shea said his only regret was that the price controls in the Ways and Means measure could not take effect before 2001. Liberal Democrats agreed to defer price controls to that year to placate more conservative lawmakers and economists who asserted that the cost goals could be met by encouraging competition among insurance companies, doctors, hospitals and drug companies.
Under the Ways and Means bill, health maintenance organizations would also be subject to the price controls. The maximum premiums would initially be computed with the same formula used to calculate Medicare payments to H.M.O.'s enrolling elderly people.
Health maintenance organizations describe current Medicare payments as inadequate. Karen M. Ignagni, president of the Group Health Association of America, which represents 500 H.M.O.'s with 37 million members, said "it would be devastating" to use a similar formula in calculating payments to health maintenance organizations for private patients. Private patients account for the vast majority of the 45 million people in health maintenance organizations. Medicare and Medicaid number fewer than five million.
Representative Benjamin L. Cardin, Democrat of Maryland, observed that several states had been regulating hospital rates for years, with none of the dire consequences foreseen by Republicans.
But Richard J. Davidson, president of the American Hospital Association, said state officials demonstrated much greater sensitivity to local concerns and the problems of particular hospitals than could be expected of Federal officials responsible for a vast national program.

GRAPHIC: Photo: As the House Ways and Means Committee moved toward a vote on its health care bill yesterday, Representatives Michael A. Andrews, left, Robert T. Matsui, center, and Dan Rostenkowski conferred. (Michael Geissinger for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN HOSPITAL ASSOCIATION (83%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HEALTH INSURANCE; STATES (US) HEALTH CARE POLICY (92%); HEALTH CARE (92%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (92%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (89%); INSURANCE (87%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (77%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (64%); LABOR UNIONS (64%); SENIOR CITIZENS (60%); 

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (59%); PETE STARK (58%); BILL CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



707 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 446 words

HEADLINE: A Quality-of-Life Offense? It Could End Up in Arrest.

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
Giorgio Favia was awakened yesterday morning by his mother's knock on his front door. "These nice police officers want to talk to you," said his mother, who lives on the first floor of their apartment building in the Bronx.
Minutes later, he was in a patrol car's back seat headed to the police station. Concerned about appearances, he said, the two officers did not handcuff him until he was out of his mother's sight. 
 His crime: drinking beer out of a bag in Washington Square Park.
Mr. Favia, a father of two, was one of 33 people arrested yesterday as part of the New York City Police Department's crackdown on so-called quality-of-life offenses. Like Mr. Favia, they had failed to pay summonses issued for such transgressions as drinking and urinating in public, playing their radios too loud and riding bicycles on sidewalks.
 
Computer Records
 The police began the program in mid-March in the West Village's Sixth Precinct. Under the system that still exists elsewhere, only a fraction of people given summonses go to court. To combat this, officers in the West Village now bring violators without photo identification to the station house, where computer records make it possible for repeat offenders to be arrested later.
Underlying this policy is the belief of the Police Department, and City Hall, that leniency toward even minor offenses reduces the city's quality of life and creates a culture that encourages greater crimes. And next week the department is expected to expand this policy citywide.
Police Commissioner William J. Bratton said he was pleased with the program's beginning. "It's not going to be just writing a piece of paper so we can get a statistic that we did this, saying we issued 10,000 summonses," he said. "If the summonses aren't having any impact, there's no sense writing the paper."
Since March the police have issued 1,834 summonses in the Sixth Precinct. Of those summoned, 876 failed to appear in court, and the police hope the first arrests yesterday will help reduce the percentage of scofflaws.
As he left Criminal Court in lower Manhattan yesterday, Mr. Favia, 23 and unemployed for the last four months, grumbled about paying a $25 fine (plus a $45 late penalty) and explained why he hadn't in the first place. How could he afford to, he asked, with a wife, two children and only $140 a week in jobless benefits?
John Jollon, 29, was waiting outside the court for his brother Kevin, 34. They too had been drinking outside, near Bleecker and Sullivan Streets, he said. His brother was fined; he wasn't. "They should be out there busting drug pushers," said Mr. Jollon, who lives in Richmond Hill, Queens.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ARRESTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); POLICE FORCES (90%); FINES & PENALTIES (88%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (78%); CITY LIFE (75%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (75%); CITIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (60%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU GIORGIO FAVIA (91%); JOHN JOLLON (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



708 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: TURNOVER IN JAPAN: TRADE;
Hopes Dim Over Trade With Japan

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 29

 BODY:
The rise to power of a hybrid coalition of Socialists and conservatives in Japan has dampened hopes in Washington that the yearlong negotiations with Tokyo to open some of its closed markets can be concluded in time for the Group of Seven summit meeting in Italy next week.
Indeed, American officials are now loath to predict when those trade talks might conclude. American officials now use words like "over time" and "the long run." 
 This dimming of hopes for any resolution of the trade problems between the United States and Japan is not only bad news on the trade front, but is also clearly hurting the dollar, which continues to fall despite Administration efforts to talk up the value of the American currency.
 
Protectionists in Japan
 On Tuesday night and again this afternoon Secretary of the Treasury Lloyd Bentsen declared that the United States was concerned about the fall of the dollar against the yen and wanted to see its slide reversed, but his public declarations had no effect on the markets.
The reason is this: Currency traders know that the Socialists now spearheading the new Government in Japan are the most protectionist party in that country. They long opposed opening the Japanese rice market to foreigners, let alone high-tech sectors, and they generally do not favor making concessions that would open other markets to the United States in ways that might cost Japanese workers their jobs.
With Socialists sharing power with conservatives in Tokyo for the near future, currency traders assume that there is little hope for a negotiated settlement of the American-Japanese trade dispute.
Therefore, many currency speculators conclude, the Clinton Administration will be forced by the rising trade deficit with Tokyo to use a weaker dollar -- whether by design or default -- to try to pressure Japan into concessions -- even if Washington says it does not want to do that. A weak dollar and strong yen makes goods Japan wants to sell in the United States more expensive and makes the goods the United States wants to sell in Japan cheaper.
 
Dollar Holding Up
 The dollar is actually holding up well against most other currencies.
As much as Mr. Bentsen now says "the dollar is not a tool of our trade policy," American officials generally don't seem overly upset by the howls of protest coming from the big Japanese exporters, complaining that they are being priced out of the American market by the soaring yen.
Either way, what is clear for now is that the short-term prospects for a negotiated settlement have been set back. The United States Trade Representative, Mickey Kantor, said in an interview today:
"How this change of government in Japan -- the fourth Prime Minister we have had to deal with in less than a year -- is going to affect the negotiations is subject to anyone's guess. We are continuing to meet with the Japanese side. We even have received some new proposals from the Japanese side in the past few days. " Neverthless, we have to look at this realistically, and obviously it is difficult to assume you can make a tremendous amount of progess under these circumstances."
Mr. Bentsen echoed this view in remarks to the Foreign Policy Association in New York on Tuesday, saying of the talks with Japan: "We do not see the progress at this point that we were hoping for."
Mr. Bentsen told reporters today that he was still optimistic about progress with Japan "over time," but he clearly was not hazarding any predictions about the short term.
American officials note with some bemusement that for the last year they have been complaining about the hold that the permanent Japanese bureaucrats have over that country's negotiating positions in the trade talks, seemingly dominating the political leaders at every turn.
But lately, American officials have seen some of the benefits of that bureaucratic dominance: Despite the political turmoil in Tokyo, the bureaucrats handling the negotiations with Washington are still marching to the beat of their own drummer and showed up this week offering new proposals in the negotiations.
 
A Glimmer of Hope
 Ultimately, though, any final agreement will have to be affirmed by the new political leadership, but the sheer fact that the negotiations are continuing here with the bureaucrats -- on opening the Japanese markets for insurance, automobiles and auto parts, medical equipment and telecommunications -- gives American officials at least a glimmer of hope that a negotiated solution sometime is not completely out of the question.
American officials say there is no hope that a deal can be struck opening the Japanese markets for autos and auto parts anytime soon, but in the field of insurance and government procurement of medical equipment and telecommunications gear the two sides, at least before today, were narrowing their differences.
Japanese officials say that if they could get the green light from the political level, they could probably close a deal on opening the Japanese insurance market by next week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ETHICS; ELECTIONS CONSERVATISM (90%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); JAPANESE YEN (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); ETHICS (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TRENDS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); EXPORT PRICES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (66%); TRADE DISPUTES (66%); 

PERSON: MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI; POLLACK, ANDREW HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



709 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: U.S., Allies and Russia Agree on Bosnia Map

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PARIS, June 29

 BODY:
The United States, Russia and the European Union have agreed on a map for the territorial division of Bosnia designed to end the 27-month war in the former Yugoslav republic, a spokeswoman for the French Foreign Ministry said today.
The map, the fruit of several months of consultation with the warring factions in Bosnia, is set to be formally approved by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Foreign Minister Andrei V. Kozyrev of Russia and European Union ministers at a meeting in Geneva on July 5. 
 The map, the latest in a series of diplomatic attempts to draw lines through the ethnic confusion of Bosnia, was not immediately made public, but it is known to offer 51 percent of the territory to a federation of Bosnian Muslims and Croats and 49 percent to the Bosnian Serbs.
Maps said to represent the international plan, published by Serbian newspapers and described as broadly accurate by Western diplomats, suggest that an attempt has been made to link Muslim enclaves in eastern Bosnia to Sarajevo and to insure that Muslims can return to several cities from which they were evicted by the Serbs.
 
Timing Not Fixed
 Previous diplomatic maps have all failed to resolve the central conundrum of Bosnia: how to achieve the return of Bosnia's Muslims to their homes given the fact of the Bosnian Serbs' military victory and determination to hold a coherent body of territory.
The French spokeswoman said it was not yet clear when the map would be submitted to the warring parties.
But she said they might be called to Geneva on July 5 and formally handed the plan. This would give them three days to respond before a summit meeting of of the Group of Seven major industrialized nations in Naples that begins on July 8.
"This plan amounts to a last chance to end the war," the spokeswoman said. "French troops in the United Nations peacekeeping force will not spend another winter in Bosnia like the last one."
France, like other Western nations, has grown deeply impatient with the bloodshed in Bosnia and is determined to withdraw at least part of its large contingent in the United Nations force if the warring parties shun the lastest peace plan.
The spokeswoman said that American, Russian and European diplomats had also agreed on a series of "inducements and punishments" designed to focus the minds of Serbs and Muslims on the consequences of pursuing the war.
Western officials said the broad plan was that if Serbs accepted the map and the Muslim-led Bosnian Government rejected it, an international trade embargo on Serbia might be eased. But if the Bosnian Government said yes and the Serbs no, the arms embargo that puts the Bosnian Government at a disadvantage might be lifted.
A danger of this idea is that it will merely encourage each side to try to insure that it is the other that rejects the plan -- a tactic already explicitly referred to by the Bosnian President, Alija Izetbegovic.
 
'Many Violations'
 The completion of the map came as fighting raged between Muslims and Serbs in central Bosnia despite a one-month cease-fire signed by the two sides on June 10.
"There are many violations of the cease-fire," Yasushi Akashi, the top United Nations official in the Balkans, said today in Brussels, where he attended a meeting with NATO officials called to review how an eventual peace would be enforced.
Bosnian Government forces, fighting in the Mount Ozren area, are apparently trying to secure a strategic road between their strongholds of Tuzla in northern Bosnia and Zenica in central Bosnia.
"There is no peace in Bosnia and no cease-fire," Brig. Andrew Ridgway of Britain said in a statement issued in the central Bosnian town of Gornji Vakuf. "After the end of the cease-fire, there will be at least 20 years of war."
This pessimistic assessment reflected the fact that the Bosnian Government and Croats have been talking openly about using their alliance to crush the Serbs on the battlefield, possibly in a coordinated offensive in the fall.
They have shown no public enthusiasm for a settlement that will inevitably be imperfect, while the Serbs, who hold about 70 percent of Bosnia, have made clear that they regard the territorial concessions being demanded of them as excessive.

GRAPHIC: Maps of Bosnia and Herzegovina showing current areas of control and international proposal.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CROATIA (79%); 

STATE: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (93%); EUROPEAN UNION (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; RUSSIA; SARAJEVO (BOSNIA); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (93%); SERBIA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); CROATIA (79%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (58%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; BOUNDARIES AND TERRITORIAL ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); RELIGION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); APPROVALS (72%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); ARMS EMBARGOES (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); 

PERSON: COHEN, ROGER

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



710 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Investors Seek a Haven in Money Market Funds

BYLINE: By LESLIE EATON 

 BODY:
The turmoil in the world's financial markets is giving Americans the jitters, making them reluctant to continue pouring billions of dollars into stock and bond mutual funds, industry officials said yesterday. Instead, investors are heading for the safety of money market funds.
Executives at fund companies suggest that investors are merely parking their cash in money market funds until the markets calm down. 
 For example, Fidelity Investments, the nation's largest mutual fund company, saw 25 percent more cash flood into its money market funds in June than in May, said Neal Litvack, executive vice president of marketing for the firm.
 
Flight From Bond Funds
 "That money is ready to go back in, given some sign of stability," he said, noting that a recent survey sponsored by Fidelity found that 38 percent of fund investors planned to buy stock funds in the next six months.
But some investment advisers think inflow is coming from people fleeing bond funds, which have been falling in value since February, when the Federal Reserve started raising interest rates. Taxable bond funds are down more than 3 percent this year, according to Morningstar Inc.; funds that invest in municipal bond funds have fallen more than 4 percent.
"If you came to me and said, 'I've been battered in long-term funds and I want to take my money out,' I'd say, 'Do it,' " said Kurt Brouwer, president of Brouwer & Janachowski, a San Francisco investment advisory firm. "I wouldn't leave it in long-term bonds, because interest rates probably are going to go up some more."
Such scared investors, he added, need to re-evaluate their investment objectives and the amount of risk they can tolerate.
While investors have been putting money into money market funds, they are also taking money out, according to data from the Investment Company Institute, the mutual fund industry's trade association. From June 1 to June 22, assets in money market funds sold to individual investors fell by about $2 billion; analysts note, however, that Americans use money market funds as checking accounts, and often draw on them to make end-of-quarter tax payments.
Investors continue to bail out of some bond funds, though fund executives said the pace of withdrawals slowed in June and some bond funds attracted modest inflows of cash. Fidelity's long-term bond funds lost $100 million; over all, the firm took in $650 million, far less than the net $1 billion it received from investors in May. The decline came not because more people were pulling money out of funds, but because there was a drop in new purchases, Mr. Litvack said.
Stock funds continue to attract investors' dollars, but at a slower pace than in May. For example, at T. Rowe Price in Baltimore, the inflow into equity funds fell almost a quarter in June but remains "pretty good," Steven Norwitz, a spokesman for the firm, said. "People are just holding back."
Investors who use brokers are believed to react more slowly to market moves, but firms that cater to them, including Kemper Financial Services, report modestly lower net sales. At State Street Research, stock fund sales dropped 18 percent and bond fund sales fell 11 percent, but the inflow into money market funds soared 20 percent, a spokeswoman said.
 
Drop in Stock Fund Sales
 Mutual Fund Trim Tabs, a newsletter that surveys a sample of mutual funds, estimates that for the entire mutual fund industry, net sales of stock funds fell sharply in June and international stock funds showed only very small gains. The outflow out of bond funds continued, the newsletter found, but at a more more moderate pace.
In May, equity funds attracted $11.8 billion, even more than April's $11.3 billion inflow, according to data released yesterday by the Investment Company Institute. But much of May's positive activity came from people who move money around within fund families, many of whom frequently switch from fund to fund. Excluding such activity, stock funds attracted $9.9 billion, the lowest level of net sales this year.
Those investors who did choose stock funds went for the gusto. Aggressive growth funds, a category that includes funds that invest in the smallest companies, were the biggest gainers; growth funds, the next most aggressive group, had their best month in more than a year.
Investors pulled $2.2 billion out of bond funds, far less than the $4.8 billion they removed in April. Again, much of that activity came from in-house switching; looking only at new sales and redemptions, fixed-income funds lost about $1.1 billion, the same amount as in April.


GRAPHIC: The flow into stockfunds looks healthy lately, but if you set aside the 'switchers,' the new-money trend is less rosy. Graph tracks net cash flow into equity mutual funds (1) from all sources, (2) from funds of other types in the same fund group, and (3) excluding transfers from funds of other types in the same fund group. Graph runs from June 1993 through May 1994. (Source: Investment Company Institute)
Graph: "Less Than Meets the Eye"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (68%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (68%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (68%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (68%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FMR CORP (92%); MORNINGSTAR INC (68%); BROUWER & JANACHOWSKI (54%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; MONEY MARKET FUNDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES MUTUAL FUNDS (94%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (93%); BOND FUNDS (92%); BONDS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (77%); FUNDS OF FUNDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (67%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



711 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Mixed in Light Pre-Holiday Trading

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The buck stops where? And does the question matter at all to the stock market?
Perhaps not this week, as traders head into the long Fourth of July weekend. Moreover, share trades this week, for portfolio performance in the quarter ending today, will not be settled until next week, another incentive for traders to head to the beach. 
 That might account for yesterday's seeming paradox of a continuing slide by the dollar but a mixed performance by leading stock indexes.
Since June 3, the dollar has lost more than 6 percent of its purchasing power against the Japanese yen and about 5 percent against the German mark. The dollar fell yesterday to a new post-World War II low of 98.80 yen. But the dollar rose slightly against the mark, settling at 1.5865 marks, perhaps because of a modest cut in German interest rates.
 
Bentsen Again Defends Dollar

 
 The dollar's slide came despite a continuing defense of the currency by Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen.
Mr. Bentsen said yesterday that he was "disappointed" that a currency intervention on Friday had failed and reiterated that "we believe a stronger dollar is better for our economy and better for the world's economy." His remarks followed his strongly worded declaration on Tuesday that the Clinton Administration was not using the dollar as a trade weapon.
The fate of the dollar is important because a weakening dollar makes dollar-denominated assets like stocks less attractive, particularly to foreigners. For example, a Japanese investor who bought the stocks that make up the Dow Jones industrial average would have seen a return of 4.21 percent during the last 12 months, but would post a loss of 3.25 percent when that investment was converted to yen.
The Dow fell only 2.59 points yesterday, to 3,667.05, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500 index rose 1.56 points, to 447.63. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index rose 1.96 points to 704.01.
Thin trading volume exaggerates price movements. Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was again below normal, with 264.4 million shares changing hands, or about 10 percent below this year's daily average of 293 million shares.
"As we get closer to the weekend, our audience is going to get more and more sparse," Bill Allyn, director of listed equities trading at Jefferies & Company, said. "Friday should be quiet."
There are other factors at work. Long-term interest rates fell modestly, making stocks, at least for yesterday, a slightly better buy. The yield on the benchmark 30-year bond fell to 7.50 percent from 7.51 percent.
The inflation outlook as reflected in commodities prices eased, as fears receded of drought conditions in the Midwest. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities fell 1.02 points, to 229.38, led mainly by falling contract prices for corn, soybean and orange juice.
The price of gold, the refuge of the inflation-jittery, fell. The gold contract for August delivery declined $1.60, to $386.30 an ounce.
 
A Mixed Bag
 Blue-chip stocks like Caterpillar and I.B.M. fell, but telephone companies like BellSouth and regional banks like Nationsbank rose. Over-the-counter stocks like Cisco Systems and Novell rose.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index rose 0.92 point, to 246.72, with advancing stocks outnumbering decliners, 1,251 to 885. The American Stock Exchange market value index rose 0.81 point, to 423.48.
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 12 fell, led by Caterpillar, which fell 2, to 102 1/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (54%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (50%); 

STATE: MIDWEST USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) JEFFERIES & CO INC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED STATES (50%); MIDWEST USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S STOCK INDEX STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); INFLATION (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); WORLD WAR II (54%); DROUGHT (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



712 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 9; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 792 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasuries Are Mixed, Though Dollar Is Weak

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities were mixed yesterday, and despite another weak showing by the dollar, the market exhibited surprising resilience.
Trading was thin ahead of the long Fourth of July weekend, and while the dollar slipped to another low against the Japanese yen, the dollar's performance against European currencies may have provided a stabilizing effect on the bond market. Commodity prices were also lower, and that also helped bonds by easing investors' concerns about inflation. 
 The price of the 30-year Treasury bond rose 3/32 , to 857/32 , for a yield of 7.50 percent, down from 7.51 percent on Tuesday. Shorter-maturity bills were also mixed, with the rate of a three-month maturity at 4.13 percent, down a basis point, and a six-month maturity at 4.56 percent, up two basis points. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point.
 
Tightening Not Expected
 "Today's action was mostly with positive bias, but with little activity in terms of the dollar," said Donald Fine, chief market analyst for Chase Securities. He said he did not think the dollar would fall indefinitely, and at some point foreign investors would look at United States securities in terms of currency appreciation in addition to yield.
As for the Federal Reserve, Mr. Fine said, "I do not expect the Fed to tighten at the upcoming Federal Open Market Committee meeting on Tuesday and Wednesday because it would give the impression that monetary policy is linked to dollar exchange rates."
He added that the Fed's primary concerns were inflation and economic growth, and the Open Market Committee would have ample opportunity to lift the funds rate before its next meeting on Aug. 16.
In early trading, prices were in negative territory. But they soon showed some resilience, possibly helped by position-squaring ahead of the holiday weekend and investors' concerns about central bank intervention in the foreign exchange markets that might catch them leaning too far the wrong way.
Concern that inflation would heat up in the near future was fueled by the continued battering of the dollar and the effect that would have on the United States economy.
 
Events in Japan
 One negative factor influencing trading yesterday was news that Japan's lower house had voted for a Socialist candidate, Tomiichi Murayama, to be prime minister. Market analysts said that should insure prolonged political instability in Japan and a long delay in the resumption of trade talks between the United States and Japan.
In its second and final upward revision, the Commerce Department said yesterday that the United States economy grew at a stronger-than-expected rate in the first quarter. The gross domestic product was revised upward, to 3.4 percent from 3 percent, and from the initial April report of 2.6 percent. Last month, the G.D.P. was revised to 3 percent.
Traders said that even though the pace of growth was stronger than expected, it still put economic expansion at less than half the 7 percent annualized rate of the fourth quarter of 1993. Traders said the strong growth number was overshadowed by the dollar as a factor influencing the market.
Some market analysts said the revisions of the first-quarter G.D.P. would not alter market estimates of a gain of 3 to 4 percent in the G.D.P. in the second quarter. And while consumer spending posted a healthy gain in the first quarter, a moderation in that spending is expected in the second quarter and will depress sales, they say.
Treasuries, which have also tracked with commodity prices lately and were pushed sharply higher this week as a result, found some solace in the Commodity Research Bureau index yesterday, as the basket of 21 commodity prices declined. The C.R.B. index fell 1.02 point, to 229.38.
 
Municipal Bond Issues
 The day's largest offering in the municipal bond market was a $370 million debt issue by the Metropolitan Transportation Authority of New York, negotiated through underwriters led by CS First Boston.
The underwriters said most of the issue, which is divided into two series, was insured by the Municipal Bond Investor's Assurance Corporation and rated Triple-A by Moody's Investors Service and Standard & Poor's. The bonds are priced to yield a maximum of about 6.386 percent for an issue due in 2024.
The maximum yield for an uninsured bond due in 2024 is 6.60 percent. The uninsured bonds are rated Baa-1 by Moody's and BBB+ by S.& P.
A $206 million joint refunding by the Dallas-Fort Worth International Airport was initially priced by Merrill Lynch to yield a maximum 6.30 percent for a bond due in 2012. All the bonds in the financing are insured by Municipal Bond Investor's Assurance and rated triple-A by the rating agencies.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since March. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT MUNICIPAL BOND (66%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS TREASURY SECURITIES (92%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (86%); MONETARY POLICY (86%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



713 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
The U.S. shouldn't be too proud to imitate others' technology.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
"PRODUCTIVITY isn't everything," Paul Krugman, an economist at Stanford University, is fond of saying, "but in the long run it is almost everything." And long after the current fuss over the exchange value of the dollar is a distant memory, policy makers will still be worrying about the fundamentals that drive American living standards.
President Clinton apparently got the point, sweeping into office clutching reams of proposals for jump-starting the technological change thought to lead to faster productivity growth. 
 But William Baumol, the director of the C.V. Starr Center for Applied Economics at New York University, suspects that the policy establishment is ignoring the cheapest and least intrusive (and therefore least controversial) role for government in the process. "Imitation," he argues, "is more important than innovation." Hence, he says, Washington should be doing what the Japanese have never been too proud to do: Make it as easy as possible for business to borrow foreign technology.
It has become a cliche to bemoan American industry's failure to capture the benefits of innovation. Who, after all, has not heard the sad story of how the videotape recorder was invented in the land of the Stars and Stripes, and then commercially developed by the enterprising Japanese.
Mr. Baumol does not dispute the video recorder story -- or, for that matter, Japan's legendary agility in using borrowed technology to carve out markets in color film, television sets, autos and quartz watches. But he turns the standard conclusion on its head: If you can't lick 'em, join 'em. Imitators (including American imitators), he suggests, have always had an advantage over the leaders in technology.
While mass-produced steel, jet aircraft and penicillin were all British inventions, German and American companies dominated their commercialization, and relatively little of the profit has ended up in British pockets. And a variety of more systematic studies, he reports, confirm that the rate of return on investments in borrowed foreign technology is considerably higher than the return on home-grown innovation.
The moral, Mr. Baumol argues, in his new book "Entrepreneurship, Management and the Structure of Payoffs" (MIT Press), is not to stop the generation of new technology or to work harder to slow the export of American inventions, but to get better at imitation. And while much of the responsibility ought to fall on the corporations that would profit directly, he believes there is a legitimate -- and cost-effective -- role here for Washington.
One easy initiative would be to finance fellowships and language training for students to study engineering and other applied sciences abroad, just as South Korea, China and a host of other countries send students to America. Another would be to subsidize the immigration of technical workers. Sponsoring businesses or universities would be obliged to make the case that the immigrants were bringing specialized skills.
Yet another would be to give American embassies greater capacity (short of industrial espionage) to assess foreign technology. Mr. Baumol suggests that they might also serve as agents in technology licensing agreements or prepare newsletters that would give businesses back home early knowledge of what was happening, and where.
An obvious question is why Washington should take the initiative when the American companies that stand to gain haven't bothered. Larger corporations (notably multinationals) do, of course, invest in the transfer of technology. But Mr. Baumol notes that left to the market one would expect systematic underinvestment in this sort of activity. A good deal of technological knowledge is simply too abstract to be patented or embodied in individual workers who have the right to change employers, and thus the benefits are not likely to be captured by a single investor.
Martin Baily, a fellow at the McKinsey Global Institute in Washington and longtime advocate of tax breaks for research and development, is not entirely convinced. While he acknowledges that some technology is indeed a "public good" whose benefits flow easily beyond the borders of the individual enterprise, he is skeptical that government would be good at figuring out what sort of knowledge is worth importing and what isn't.
More broadly, he suspects that the availability of advanced technology plays a smaller role in productivity growth than is generally believed. "The real issue," Mr. Baily argues, is changing the regulatory environment and the economic culture of business to encourage best practices."
Arguably, the most intriguing aspect of the Baumol approach is how cheap it would be. It is hard to imagine how even the most determined bureaucracy could spend more than a few hundred million dollars a year on the sorts of programs he envisions -- peanuts compared with magnetic levitating trains, defense industry conversion and a host of other projects being promoted as answers to the productivity doldrums.
Indeed, investing in technology transfer might even save the public money if it absorbed even a fraction of the attention of the industrial planners and high-technology lobbies lurking on the fringes of the Clinton Administration.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%); JAPAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (76%); 

SUBJECT: SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY PRODUCTIVITY (89%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (72%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (71%); LIVING STANDARDS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (67%); IMMIGRATION (67%); FILM (66%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (60%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER; BAUMOL, WILLIAM J PAUL KRUGMAN (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



714 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1633 words

HEADLINE: Where Job Hunters Hit the Jackpot

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: SIOUX FALLS, S.D.

 BODY:
With pay bounding ever higher and jobs so plentiful that the local employment benefits office is often deserted, this Plains-hugging city of 105,000 is the closest thing in America to a place where it's the job seeker who says "Don't call me, I'll call you."
With unemployment in Sioux Falls the lowest in the nation -- 1.9 percent in May, according to the latest figures from the Labor Department, and possibly less, compared with 6 percent nationwide -- Karen White, personnel officer at Hutchinson Technology Inc., has had to get used to interviewing prospects for the company's computer-parts assembly line at 6 A.M., before they go off to work. 
 And Scott Simpson, owner of Sun Masters, which tints glass in cars and homes, says he has more business than he can handle and would open another shop if he could find people to work in it.
"I've got to go all over the place to get people -- and then I've got to give them an arm and a leg," Mr. Simpson complained. "They're very demanding."
At a time when policy makers as well as professors -- to say nothing of the Federal Reserve -- are looking warily at the possible negatives of economic strength, South Dakota's biggest city provides a laboratory of sorts in which to test what economic theory predicts of tight labor markets.
Foremost is the traditional trade-off between joblessness and inflation. Workers account for about 70 percent of the typical company's costs, and estimates of how low the nation's unemployment rate can go without stoking inflation range between 5 percent and 7 percent.
But a two-day visit this month showed clearly that pay is not the only thing getting more costly here. The main effect, not surprisingly, is on prices that are locally set, from real estate to haircuts. The leading complaint involves rents, which average about $370 to $750 a month for a two-bedroom apartment, the most popular size; last August, such units went for $350 to $600 a month. "I'd say rents are up about 7 percent over all from last year," said Jeffrey Iverson at the Rental Connection, a locating and property management service. This is triple the national rate of consumer price inflation.
According to Jim Honermann, owner of Barber Harbor, a large emporium on the 41st Street shopping strip, "Everything is going pretty fast and furious here." The basic men's haircut at Barber Harbor rose $1 last year, to $12, and may soon rise again, he said, to "at least $13."
With its its jobless rate down to the so-called frictional pool, composed mainly of people between jobs or new to the labor force, Sioux Falls also fulfills numerous other predictions about the effects of labor shortages. Among these are less qualified job applicants, high turnover, vacancies that on occasion cause work to be contracted out to other areas and intense competition that requires frequent sweetening of pay and benefits.
Business and government people here say employers would be finding things even tougher if the city were unable to draw workers from a region of small towns and farms that is in economic decline.
While blue-collar workers are among the hardest to find, service-sector operations like Citibank's huge credit-card processing complex are also pinched, providing academics and policy makers with another situation with test tube potential. Both are newly interested in the wage relationships of people with different skill levels and in ways of gauging the increased mobility and flexibility of the American work force.
 
 
'One Occupation at a Time'
 "Increasingly, wage levels are set with an eye to the competitive rates found in the local labor market, one occupation at a time," Audrey Freedman, a New York consultant, recently told a House panel examining the distribution of incomes.
In Sioux Falls, though welders and skilled construction workers are in particularly short supply, the fiercest local job battles tend to be fought over the relatively unskilled.
"We have raised our entry-level wage three times in the last year and a half," said Sandy Stoltz, personnel director for Carlisle Plastics, a producer of food and yard bags for Sears and other major retailers. Most recent was the May jump of 50 cents an hour that lifted starting pay to $6.60, with an extra 40 cents for the night shift.
At Bell Paper Box Inc., the larger of only two suppliers of priority-mail envelopes to the United States Postal Service, Mark S. Graham, the president, says that 80 percent to 90 percent of new hires leave before working three months.
 
 
'I'm Out of Here'
 "We need to bring in three or four people because you're only going to have one of them left," Mr. Graham said. When something displeases them, he added, "they just say 'I'm out of here' because they can go down the street" and do better.
Sioux Falls, named for a series of red-rock cascades on the Big Sioux River and boasting the nation's biggest livestock market -- more than 1.1 million hogs, cattle and sheep are expected to be auctioned this year -- is not alone in finding labor an increasingly scarce commodity. To varying degrees, the same pressures are showing up in other metropolitan areas with exceptionally low unemployment rates, a group heavily concentrated in the Midwest, in many cases cities with major universities. "These places historically have had low rates," partly because of a broad mix of recession-resistant business and industry, David Smith, an economist at the Bureau of Labor Statistics, said.
And then there are places like Sheboygan, Wis. -- a city whose 3.1 percent unemployment rate places it below the top 10 -- where strong demand for production workers has inspired efforts to import them. A current target is the 2,000 Briggs & Stratton Corporation employees in the Milwaukee area, 50 miles to the south, who were recently told they would be laid off over the next few years as the company shifts some production to lower-cost areas.
 
 
Hospitable to Enterprise
 Sioux Falls, which like much of the central United States, suffered from the agricultural and energy recession of the 1980's but was largely unaffected by the 1990-91 downturn, is a virtual boom town. It is one of the relatively few places in United States where the factory work force is actually growing. But the a boom is based not on oil or entertainment projects or mega-dollar government projects but mainly on being hospitable to enterprise -- no corporate or personal income tax -- and its manageable size.
Indeed, the city's tiny minority population -- Sioux Falls is 96.8 percent white, mainly of Scandinavian and German extraction -- has benefited from the intense demand for workers, pulling American Indians and blacks, some with checkered employment histories, into relatively well-paying jobs.
Among its other advantages are low-cost electricity and a midcontinent location that saves money for telecommunications businesses.
Virtually everyone here cites the effect of glowing articles in Money magazine, which in 1992 ranked Sioux Falls first on its list of livable locales. Though losing this honor last year, to Rochester, Minn., Sioux Falls still boasted the top-ranked economy.
But as fast as newcomers arrive, many from neighboring Minnesota, where the tax burden is significantly higher, the Sioux Falls job market bids for them -- whether in financial or medical services or at such manufacturers as Hutchinson, which makes suspension assemblies for disk drives, or Aerostar International Inc., a maker of various types of balloons, including nearly all new balloons over the last 10 years for Macy's Thanksgiving Day parade in New York.
 
 
Minimum Wage
 At John Morrell & Company, whose 2,800-worker packing plant has been a pillar of the Sioux Falls economy for 85 years, even $9 an hour to start is not enough to keep the ranks full. Hutchinson's $1-an-hour raise, a 16 percent increase in starting pay, for all its production workers last October forced many other employers to follow. Greg Peterson, manager of the local Job Service office, said that not even high school students could be hired here for the minimum wage of $4.25 an hour; they get at least $4.75.
Another effect of the tight labor market is to force employers to recruit more imaginatively and over ever-greater distances, luring many workers into daily treks of 100 miles or more and threatening the city's 12-minute average commute. Many applicants are already employed, leading to off-hours interviews as people "take a shot," as Mr. Peterson put it, at the most desirable jobs with such regional or national employers as Federal Express, Northern States Power or Burlington Northern.
South Dakotans who had decided to move to Sioux Falls had produced "an uneasy marriage," said Lieut. Gov. Steve Kirby, who, like many officials in smaller states with part-time legislatures, remains active in business -- in his case a venture capital company. He said depopulated rural areas consoled themselves with the "spring of money" that taxes from Sioux Falls provided for the programs of state and local governments.
 
 
National Job Bank
 Robert G. Stanek, president of the SMC Corporation, said that despite raising wages twice so far this year,his machinery company was short 20 hands, workers he said he would be willing to train free and who could make it unnecessary to contract out some production to nearby parts of Minnesota, Iowa and Nebraska.
Perhaps the best thing policy makers could do, Mr. Stanek suggested, would be to create a national job bank that could link employers here with the legions of motivated but marginally skilled unemployed in other parts of the country, particularly in urban centers.
"These people," Mr. Stanek said, "are not finding their way to Sioux Falls."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sioux Falls, S. D., with the nation's lowest unemployment rate, is a model for studies of labor markets. Karen White, above left, held a sign to attract workers to Hutchinson Technology. Mark Graham, president of Bell Paper Box, worked at his plant. A sign at a Bonanza restaurant sought help. (Photographs by Mike Roemer for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
Table: "The Geography of Unemployment" shows U.S. metropolitan areas with the lowest and highest unemployment rates in May, when the U.S. unemployment rate was 6.0 percent. Figures are not seasonally adjusted. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HTCH (NASDAQ) (71%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334419 OTHER ELECTRONIC COMPONENT MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC3679 ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS, NEC (71%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (71%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: HUTCHINSON TECHNOLOGY INC (71%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIOUX FALLS (SD); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (94%); SIOUX FALLS, SD, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SHORTAGES EMPLOYMENT (91%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); RETAILERS (88%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); REAL ESTATE (75%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



715 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 13; Column 4; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1760 words

HEADLINE: Philharmonic's Deficit Persists Despite New Regime's Gains

BYLINE: By DIANA JEAN SCHEMO 

 BODY:
In the nearly three years since Kurt Masur and Deborah Borda took over the New York Philharmonic, they have been hailed as the team to cure an ailing orchestra. As music director, Mr. Masur has thrown open the orchestra's doors for public discussions, open rehearsals and radio broadcasts. Ms. Borda, the executive director, has tried to lure untapped audiences by scheduling cheaper, shorter concerts at unusual times and festivals to highlight specific themes in music. Together, they have mended ties with a fractious, once-demoralized orchestra, winning critical acclaim for restoring its musical excellence.
Despite this string of successes, however, the Philharmonic has yet to shake the fiscal demons that have been haunting it, and other orchestras, in recent years. A deficit that first surfaced in 1990 will not disappear this year, as predicted. Rather, after dipping to $500,000, it is expected to surge past the $1 million mark again next year, suggesting that for all the cushions of a healthy endowment and well-placed friends, New York's premier orchestra is not immune to the trials confronting orchestras across America, and must invent new strategies for survival. 
 Indeed, by some measures, the fiscal strains on the New York Philharmonic appear greater than those of the other members of the country's so-called Big Five orchestras: Boston, Chicago, Cleveland and Philadelphia. By next year, the sum of the Philharmonic's deficits over the last six years, $7.6 million, is expected to exceed those of its sister orchestras over the last 10 years. Each of the Philharmonic's shortfalls is covered by withdrawals from the endowment beyond the regular 5.5 percent annual transfer, the amount its board officially deems sufficient to cover operating expenses and insure the endowment's growth.
 
Deficits 'Not a Problem'
 Officials at the Philharmonic do not appear troubled by the deficits, and point to the steady rise of the endowment to $100 million from $68 million in 1990 as a sign of the orchestra's fiscal health. "It's a new era in that there are financial pressures on the institution," said Edward Sermier, the chief financial officer, "but now that they're understood, they're not a problem." .
He said that a $1 million deficit, given the endowment's size, was "manageable," and could be virtually eliminated by dropping activities peripheral to the Philharmonic's mission, like the summer parks and Rush Hour concerts, educational programs, lectures and extra rehearsals, though the orchestra has no plans to do so.
"The institution has improved its artistic quality enough that the board is willing to accept a small deficit without cutting noncore programs," Mr. Sermier said.
The difficulties confronting the Philharmonic and other American orchestras were first documented in a 1992 report by the American Symphony Orchestra League. The report found that virtually all the costs associated with staging classical concerts had risen faster than the rate of inflation, from musician salaries to administration to promotion, while audiences, for the first time in history, were declining. A second report the following year went so far as to suggest that orchestras woo audiences with jazz and pop music, recruit more black and Hispanic musicians by dropping traditional blind auditions, and try incorporating videoscreens and special lighting in concerts.
 
Conclusions Protested
 The report touched off a firestorm of protest among some orchestra executives, who said that in its worry over the financial condition of orchestras, the league was forgetting their very raison d'etre: presenting classical music of a European tradition.
While the solution was in dispute, however, the problem was not. "It's a societal change we're dealing with," said Ms. Borda. "People used to purchase tickets for 24 Saturday nights with the Philharmonic. I don't know anybody who plans for 24 Saturday nights of anything anymore."
Joseph Kluger, president of the Philadelphia Orchestra, said: "Today, if you can get that same individual to buy six concerts, you're doing very well. So you need more people to get the same revenue base."
Yet even consistently full houses are no longer enough to keep an orchestra in the black. Four years ago, the Philharmonic's ticket sales and royalties of $13.1 million covered 56.4 percent of the orchestra's $23.1 million in expenses. Last season, with more than 96 percent of the seats at Avery Fisher Hall sold, revenues of $14.8 million covered only 50.5 percent of the $29.2 million budget, according to the Philharmonic's financial reports.
"You do max out in terms of what you can generate in earned revenue," said Lois Cohn, marketing and public relations director for the Philharmonic. Next year, there will be an overall 5.7 percent increase in subscription ticket prices; some single-ticket prices will also rise, with orchestra seats for regular concerts running $45.
 
A Strategic Decision
 The stewards of the Philharmonic appear to have made a strategic decision. Rather than muddle through in the hope that a general economic upswing will eventually carry the Philharmonic along, they took drastic steps to improve its quality and heighten its presence. Last year, the Philharmonic reined in, even slightly decreased, administrative costs, while increasing musician salaries and touring by some $4 million. It also increased rehearsal time, and almost doubled the amount of money spent on promotion, from $1.65 million in 1990 to $3.2 million.
The Philharmonic's 106 musicians earn minimum weekly salaries of $1,300, with Glenn Dicterow, the concertmaster, and some principal players collecting significantly more. After an $80-a-week increase in salaries next September, the pay scale will surpass that of the highest-paying orchestra in the country, the Chicago Symphony, which is about to enter contract negotiations. Mr. Masur's $1.12 million annual salary and Ms. Borda's $280,000 are also among the tops in the field.
To some extent, the new policies are beginning to show results, judging by figures in annual reports. Last year, amid the newly won critical acclaim and the lavish 150th-anniversary celebrations, the Philharmonic saw gifts, grants and bequests soar to $10.5 million from $6.4 million in 1992. Paid attendance also rose to 406,739 from 380,214. But the increases were not enough to reverse the deficits and eliminate the need for extra withdrawals from the endowment.
Tom Bacchetti, the former executive director of the Atlanta Symphony who now acts as a consultant to orchestras and performing arts organizations, called the string of Philharmonic deficits "worrisome." Contributors give to the endowment fund so it will serve as an enduring source of income, he noted. Compensating for shortfalls by dipping into the endowment is "a dangerous course" that will "erode its buying power," he said.
"You're just buying trouble down the road," Mr. Bacchetti said. "It tends to diminish the confidence of contributors to the endowment fund."
And overlooking several years of deficits, he warned, ignores the heart of the problem: an unhealthy ratio of revenue to expenses. Because of dwindling grants from both the government and private foundations, Mr. Bacchetti advises his clients that to insure solvency, they should earn 60 percent of their operating budgets.
 
'Really Investiments'
 But Stephen Stamas, chairman of the Philharmonic, said he was not worried by the deficits. He said that some of them were "really investments, because we wanted Kurt Masur and the orchestra to start out in the best possible way."
Ms. Borda, who is 44, works hard to project an upbeat mood, and describes the initiatives the orchestra has taken to reach a wider audience as long-term investments without regard to finances. Responding to the 1992 American Symphony Orchestra League report with notable candor, Ms. Borda said that the initiatives had, paradoxically, cost more money and would not pay off "on an immediate financial basis."
"The truth is that like other American orchestras, we were losing ground and running deficits anyway," she wrote. "Instead, we will try to turn those 'losses' into investments and pray that we made the right ones. What is clear to me is that we can't keep doing 'business as usual.' "
The Philharmonic has replaced some regular subscription concerts with lower-priced Rush Hour and Saturday matinee concerts intended to draw commuters and young professionals. The informal, hourlong concerts present the Philharmonic's subscription program for the week without intermission, and feature Mr. Masur and Ms. Borda fielding audience questions about the music and the orchestra.
At the first such concert, Ms. Borda recalled, briefcases leaned like bookends along every row. Mr. Masur asked the audience how many had never been to the Philharmonic before. About half raised their hands.
"There was an audible gasp -- not from the audience, but from us in the Philharmonic," Ms. Borda recalled.
 
Innovations Praised
 Mr. Bacchetti, who praised Ms. Borda's innovations while saying "the jury's still out" as to their effectiveness, noted that in some ways her job was tougher here than it would be in most other cities, because of the plethora of choices concertgoers face.
The Casual Saturdays, shorter concerts at lower prices, are proving popular among families with children, and the elderly. This season, the Philharmonic will add chamber music and raise subscriptions to $99 from $81 for orchestra seats at the full three-concert series, said Ms. Cohn.
Mr. Masur, 67, has also restored the conductor as a presence in the life of the city. His radio shows, audience chats, children's concerts and open rehearsals are all geared toward making the orchestra more approachable, both intellectually and socially.
These innovations are not, strictly speaking, short-term investments whose success can be measured in a glance at the bottom line the following year. Some of the steps are really an individual conductor's stamp on a city, and some may take years to demonstrate their worth. But it is perhaps a measure of the uncertainty of orchestras these days that they must each watch the moves their counterparts are making, and seize what might seem to be a movable success.
"Orchestras are experimenting," said Tom Hallett, chief financial officer of the Chicago Symphony, which is considering adopting a rush-hour concert series of its own. "That's what you're seeing."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kurt Masur, conductor of the New York Philharmonic, and Deborah Borda, the orchestra's executive director. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) (pg. C13); Kurt Masur conducting the New York Philharmonic during a concert in September 1992. (Chris Lee) (pg. C17)
 
Graph: "In the Key of D" shows The New York Philharmonic operating budget deficit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MUSIC MUSIC (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); FESTIVALS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (72%); 

PERSON: SCHEMO, DIANA JEAN; MASUR, KURT; BORDA, DEBORAH MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



716 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 2; Column 1; Home Desk; Consumer's World Page

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Buying Air-Conditioners: An Environmental Guide

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
A SHOPPER went to a discount store, Tops Appliance City, in East Hanover, N.J., earlier this month to look for a window air-conditioner. He made a tentative selection, a $700 model, and then asked if the machine used Freon, the Du Pont trade name that is commonly used to refer to chlorofluorocarbons, or CFC's, the chemicals blamed for eating a hole in the ozone layer.
Yes, the salesman said, and the machines are notorious for leaking, he added, so buy our service contract, too, for $149. 
 Well, said the shopper, do you have any that don't use Freon?
Oh, sir, said the salesman, you wouldn't want one of those, because the replacement refrigerant corrodes the machine's innards. Buy the service contract instead, he said again.
What's an environmentally conscious shopper to do?
First, stop listening to the salesman.
"The salesman is flat-out wrong" about the refrigerant used in air-conditioners, said T. R. Reid, a spokesman for the Whirlpool Corporation in Benton Harbor, Mich., which produces window units under the Whirlpool, Kitchenaid, Roper and Kenmore brand names.
(On Monday, the Tops store manager said someone from company headquarters would respond. No one did.)
No window units use CFC's like Freon. Instead, they use a compound called R-22, part of a class of chemicals called HCFC's. HCFC's do some ozone damage, but at the moment, no one markets a completely ozone-friendly window air-conditioner, so the only alternative is to swelter.
With a warm spring and a reasonably strong economy, the industry expects to sell more than three million window air-conditioners this year, all using R-22, and nearly all of that refrigerant will eventually be vented into the atmosphere, either because the machines leak or because they break down and are dumped in landfills.
For now, buy whatever you can find in the stores, because window air-conditioners are not prone to leak, at least not in the first decade or so.
Window air-conditioners are not as big a problem as cars. The 1994 cars and many of the 1993's use a new refrigerant called R-134a, which does not hurt the ozone layer; older models use R-12, which persists in the atmosphere for decades and breaks down stratospheric ozone molecules that protect life on the earth's surface from the sun's ultraviolet rays.
Car air-conditioners are prone to leak: they are powered by a belt from the engine, which spins a shaft, and the seal around the shaft gradually breaks down. In addition, car air-conditioners must be free to bounce and vibrate, so they use hoses instead of pipes, and the hoses leak, too. But production of R-12 will be banned after this year, and repairing air-conditioners, expensive now, will become harder and harder.
Window air-conditioners are more durable because the motors and spinning shafts are inside a sealed box. Most have a life span of 12 to 15 years.
But the refrigerant they use, R-22, is scheduled to be phased out, too. Almost all production will stop in 2020. According to the air-conditioning industry, R-22 does only 5 percent as much damage as R-12.
Not everyone agrees that R-22 is acceptable even in the short-term. John W. Passacantando, the executive director of Ozone Action, a Washington environmental group, said that in the next few decades, R-22 will have an impact much larger than 5 percent, maybe 20 or 25 percent.
The 5 percent figure, he said, was based on damage over the next 200 years, but the most intense period of ozone destruction will occur much sooner, in the next century. Industry executives do not agree, but they anticipate that the current phase-out for R-22 will be accelerated. Thus they all have replacements on the drawing boards or ready to mass-produce.
The problem is that an air-conditioner using R-134a, if it were the same size as current units, would be 30 percent less efficient, said A. Bruce Buchholz, the vice president for window air-conditioners at the Carrier Corporation in Syracuse. At the same time, the United States Department of Energy is proposing regulations to make all air-conditioners more efficient. Manufacturers can make window units more efficient by adding more coils, but that makes them bigger, noisier and costlier.
So the industry, along with the chemical companies that make the refrigerants, is still looking for a better substitute than R-134a.
Companies that make dehumidifiers, which have traditionally used R-12, are switching to R-22 because it won't be banned until 2020, said Robert J. Laurent, a spokesman for the Fedders Corporation in Peapack, N.J.
Carrier, a United Technologies subsidiary, has built a window unit that runs on R-134a and is ready to mass-produce it, but for the European market. "In Europe a room air-conditioner sells for double what it does in the U.S.," Mr. Buchholz said. "There's a margin to work with there."
Whole-house air conditioners also run on R-22, but Carrier introduced a model earlier this year that runs on R-134a. Size is generally not a consideration in whole-house models, because the machinery is outdoors.
Buying a whole-house unit that runs on R-134a would be better for the environment, but people who buy units that use R-22 will probably be able to find refrigerant for as long as the air-conditioners last, at least under the current phase-out schedule. That puts a ceiling on production beginning in 1996 and cuts production to 65 percent by 2004, to 35 percent in 2010 and to 10 percent in 2015.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); 

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); EARTH (79%); 

SUBJECT: AIR CONDITIONING GREEN MARKET (78%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (78%); FLUORINE (77%); OZONE DEPLETION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); CHLORINE (76%); CHEMISTRY (71%); LANDFILLS (67%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L A BRUCE BUCHHOLZ (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



717 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 5; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 313 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING -- ADDENDA;
Accounts

BYLINE: Stuart Elliott

 BODY:

* Peasant Restaurant Group, Atlanta, to the Joey Reiman Agency, Atlanta, to handle advertising for five restaurants including Winfield's and the Public House, previously handled by Fitzgerald & Co., Atlanta. While Peasant spent $83,000 on advertising in 1993, according to Competitive Media Reporting, the company said it planned to increase spending to $5 million.
 
* Isla Communications Inc., Cebu, Philippines, to Katsin/Loeb Advertising, San Francisco, as the first agency to handle the new telecommunications company's account in the Philippines. Katsin/Loeb will work with Well Advertising, Manila. Billings were estimated at $2 million. 

* Moroccan National Tourist Office, New York, to Spring, O'Brien & Co., New York, to handle its advertising and promotional account in the United States, previously handled by various agencies on a project basis. Billings were estimated to exceed $1.5 million.
 
* Arjay Telecom, New York, to Baldi, Bloom & Whelan Advertising, New York, to handle the communications systems retailer's account, previously at Bernard Hodes Advertising, New York. Billings were estimated to exceed $1 million.
 
* WSI Inc., Camarillo, Calif., to Ground Zero, Venice, Calif., to handle advertising for its Diamond Back line of bicycles, previously handled in-house. Billings were not disclosed.
 
* Iowa Department of Economic Development, Des Moines, to Creswell, Munsell, Fultz & Zirbel, Des Moines, to handle advertising and collateral material, previously at Kragie Newell Inc., Des Moines. Creswell, Munsell already handles public relations for the department. Billings were estimated at $1.5 million.
 
* Kaiser Permanente Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic States, Rockville, Md., to Gray Kirk/VanSant, Baltimore, as the first local agency to handle advertising for the mid-Atlantic region. Billings were not disclosed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (91%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (82%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (82%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (70%); SIC2011 MEAT PACKING PLANTS (70%); SIC5731 RADIO, TV & CONSUMER ELECTRONICS STORES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (72%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FITZGERALD & CO (91%); KAISER PERMANENTE (82%); CRESWELL MUNSELL FULTZ & ZIRBEL LP (82%); O'BRIEN & CO (70%); BALDI BLOOM & WHELAN ADVERTISING (69%); KRAGIE/NEWELL INC (67%); KATSIN/LOEB ADVERTISING INC (57%); ARJAY TELECOM (56%); GRAY KIRK/VANSANT ADVERTISING INC (54%); JOEY REIMAN AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: JOEY REIMAN AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PHILIPPINES (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); IOWA, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (75%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (90%); MANILA, PHILIPPINES (72%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ACCOUNT CHANGES ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (71%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



718 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 460 words

HEADLINE: Shotgun Wedding in Japan

 BODY:
Only a political party system in its death agony could produce a government like the one Japan's Parliament chose yesterday. In a desperation pact that could turn into a kind of slow mutual suicide, Tokyo's two largest traditional parties, the Liberal Democrats and the Socialists, joined forces to elect Tomiichi Murayama as Japan's first Socialist Prime Minister since the 1940's.
Mr. Murayama represents the left wing of a leftist party, but he now must depend on right-wing remnants of Japan's main rightist party, the misleadingly named Liberal Democrats. It is a prescription for domestic and foreign policy paralysis and a serious blow to Clinton Administration hopes for cooperation on Korea and trade. 
 Yet this unnatural alliance will probably accelerate Japan's political realignment, hastening the day of effective, responsive government. Discontented members of both parties are already seeking a new political home. An ineffective coalition could alienate voters and strengthen the forces of reform.
The new partnership reflects the three-way breakdown of Japan's present Parliament, the first since 1955 not dominated by the Liberal Democrats. With neither Liberal Democrats, Socialists nor the reform coalition originally put together by Morihiro Hosokawa holding a majority, exotic coalitions uniting parties with little in common are inevitable.
But it would be hard to imagine a more surrealistic arrangement than this Liberal Democratic-Socialist alliance. The Liberal Democrats' main claim to business and American support had always been their ability to keep the Socialists out of power. The Socialists' only consistent principle for the past 40 years has been to oppose the Liberal Democrats.
Both elements of the new ruling tandem are in decline. The Liberal Democrats have been reduced to a collection of factions whose loyalties shift on a day-to-day basis. Two of those factions bolted ranks before the Murayama vote, strengthening the reform alliance that now becomes the main opposition. And the Socialists lost half their seats in last July's parliamentary elections, a fair verdict on their inability to adjust to changing times.
Both are likely to lose even more ground after more representative electoral districts are drawn later this year. Unsurprisingly, Mr. Murayama has suggested he may dissolve Parliament soon to permit one more race before redistricting.
For now, the old-style politicians most threatened by the past year's political upheavals are enjoying a sweet revenge. Yet unless the Socialists and Liberal Democrats begin responding to an electorate that is fed up with corruption, a stagnant economy and high prices, the future of these uninspiring veterans looks anything but bright.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (94%); THE SOCIALISTS (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATS (94%); THE SOCIALISTS (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (91%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LIBERALISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); REDISTRICTING (61%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



719 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 23; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 705 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Kneejerks for July

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
For those who base their opinions on principled disagreement with everything that appears in this space, here is a set of kneejerks for July to cope with events to come while I am on vacation.
1. Leon Panacea Presents the New, Organized, Pragmatic, Nonfrenetic, Clinton White House. Do not be suckered: Although this annual summer shuffle will be heralded as the most fundamental shift in governance since the importation of Superpragmatist David Gergen last summer, the sense of shake-up will last only until Leon attempts to wrest power from the real chief of staff. 
 Mack McLarty, who went to kindergarten with Clinton, is taking their old sandbox into the Oval Office's bunker of broken dreams. Meanwhile, over at State:
2. Vorpal Blade Goes Snickersnack. The new Foggy Bottom triumvirate of Talbott, Holbrooke and Gergen will praise Warren Christopher and Tony Lake with such vehemence that the cynical media will assume a coup is in the making. Ignore such hall-of-mirrors analysis; Chris and Tony are as solidly ensconced as Mack was.
3. Whitewater Hearings Begin in the House Banking Committee on July 26. If Chairman Henry Gonzalez, protective Democrat, bangs his gavel on Republican prober Jim Leach's head, denounce the Congressional cover-up. If a judicial panel rubber-stamps the appointment of anti-oversight Robert Fiske as Independent Counsel, castigate the pusillanimous Court of Appeals.
4. Clinton Lays Down Freedom's Marker in the Baltics. The President will speak at Riga, Latvia's Freedom Monument next week, at the spot where the Soviet Union began to come apart. His lofty theme will be the new nature of post-cold war courage. If he makes clear that Eastern European nations are on their way to full NATO membership, hail a historic address; if he fudges to avoid offending Yeltsin, deride his straddle and decry his missed opportunity.
5. Democrats Try to Portray Republicans as Captive of Christian Right's Lunatic Fringe. The Democratic campaign chairman, Vic Fazio, will step up the effort to scare Jews out of the Republican Party by bashing the evangelical right. The G.O.P. should point to Fazio's refusal, for fear of offending the Demo black caucus, to join the House vote condemning Khalid Abdul Muhammad's bigoted "bloodsucker" speech. Beware of hardball-playing pols masquerading as libertarians while pumping up a "radical" villain.
6. Wars Ain't Over Till They're Over. The West will lean on Muslims and Croats to legitimize Serbian conquest of half of Bosnia, and will denounce aggression's victims when they don't. The fairest deal will be struck when forces are equal and tired; get the U.N. out, arms to Muslims in.
7. Double Helix Solves Double Murder. If DNA's "superfingerprints" put O. J. Simpson at the scene of the crime, defense counsel's strategy could shift to attack on ex-wife as maddening slut. Stop treating this merely as a true-life whodunit, but focus on the need not only to find the perpetrator but to avenge the victims. Exhort vast audience to root for justice, not for the dramatic protagonist or to marvel at competing counsel.
8. Yen for a Penny. If the dollar drifts down another 5 percent or so, yawn; but if, after the G-7 meeting in Naples, the dollar keeps slipping without a bottom in sight, inflation and higher interest rates are a-comin' and it would be prudent to indulge in a bit of panic.
9. Apostles of Haiti. July is a customary month for hitting the beach. If Clinton wants to look strong to his liberal constituency, he will send the Marines into Haiti; if he wants to look smart as well as tough to conservatives, he will send in a force led by secretly-trained Haitians. Cautiously salute the former; throw hats in the air at the latter; hoot at continued water-treading.
10. Beltway Wisdom Confounded on Health Insurance. On the Senate floor, Dole's "four no's" will prevail: no price controls, no mandates, no triggers, no taxes. Instead, we'll see more coverage despite pre-existing conditions, which "cannot be taken away," with insurance subsidies for the poor. Credit Clinton for starting it, Dole for stopping it at the right point, and -- on July 4 -- the glorious American system for lurching forward sensibly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); LATVIA (78%); BALTIC STATES (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); 

CITY: RIGA, LATVIA (50%); 

COMPANY: IN-N-OUT BURGERS (60%); REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); CROATIA (79%); LATVIA (78%); BALTIC STATES (74%); EASTERN EUROPE (54%); RIGA, LATVIA (50%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (88%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); RELIGION (85%); CAUCUSES (77%); COLD WAR (74%); POLITICS (71%); LAWYERS (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (61%); MURDER (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



720 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 338 words

HEADLINE: A New Mythology Grows Up Around Wolves;
Defend Hunters?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
"Protecting the Targets of Protest: A Debate Now Shifts to Hunting" (front page, June 11) appears to imply that the right of sport hunters to kill animals for pleasure has as much need for protection as a woman's right to control her own body and reproductive life. 
 This might be defensible if the hunters were native Americans or others who, for cultural or economic reasons, hunt for subsistence. But I got the sense that the proposed hunter protection bill would protect primarily recreational hunting and impose more stringent prohibitions on opponents of hunting than those enacted against anti-abortion activists.
I am not an animal rights activist; I feel that this movement has moved beyond the rational on some subjects. As a child, I accompanied my father when he went hunting, which we did for food. Yet I vividly remember one occasion when we came upon a deer carcass that had been shot and left to rot. Only the head had been taken as a trophy. My father was moved to tears of anger at the sight of such waste.
I agree that the rights of humans supersede those of other species in most cases, and that hunting is a practical solution to animal overpopulation. But silencing dissent seems a drastic solution to the apparent sensitivity of some hunters to criticism.
As an anthropologist I can't help wonder if the key to this extreme legislative response lies in the cultural background of sport hunting. Hunting has traditionally been a male activity. Furthermore, the European societies from which mainstream American culture is derived have depended on domesticated animals for food for millenniums. Hunting in these cultures was traditionally a sport of the upper classes.
Could it be that the people in charge (who are mostly upper-class males) feel the need to impose stricter sanctions protecting their own leisure activities than women's reproductive rights?
 
LINDA M. VAN BLERKOM
Assistant Professor of Anthropology
Drew University
Madison, N.J., June 18, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: HUNTING AND TRAPPING; ANIMALS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SPORT HUNTING (90%); ANIMALS (90%); MAMMALS (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SHOOTINGS (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (70%); ABORTION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: VAN BLERKOM, LINDA M

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1994



721 of 721 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 30, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: TURNOVER IN JAPAN: A Startling Choice;
Socialist's Leap to the Top in Japan Endangers Painfully Won Measures

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 29

 BODY:
When the Socialist Party leader, Tomiichi Murayama, was asked by reporters a few days ago about rumors that he was a candidate to become the country's next Prime Minister, the plain-spoken 70-year-old politician replied, "Which country are you talking about?"
 Tonight, the Japanese people might be asking the same question, as the political and business worlds were thrown into disarray with Mr. Murayama's election as the first Socialist Prime Minister in 46 years. 
I can't believe it, I can't believe it," groaned Keiichi Nagamatsu, an official of Keidanren, the most powerful business lobbying organization, who said the election would make a mockery of Japanese politics in the eyes of the world.
 "We are ashamed," he said.
 
A Compromise Choice
 Amid the political upheaval, there were fears that Mr. Murayama's government could slow or reverse the opening of Japan's markets, the deregulation of its economy, and moves toward reform of the corruption-ridden electoral system. Trade talks with the United States also look likely to stall.
 In addition, income tax cuts to stimulate the economy, long supported by the United States on the theory that economic growth would draw in more American imports, might be delayed. And there are questions about whether Japan will cooperate with the United States in imposing sanctions on North Korea over its nuclear weapon program.
 It is not that Mr. Murayama, a fisherman's son and onetime labor union officer, is disliked. He is regarded as an amiable, honest and down-to-earth grandfatherly figure.
 But he was virtually unknown to the public as recently as a year ago, and even now is more famous for his distinctive long gray eyebrows than for his policies. He is an undistinguished legislator who floated to the top of the political world not by being a dynamic leader, but by being everyone's compromise choice -- first when he was elected chairman of the Socialist Party last September and then when he was chosen Prime Minister tonight.
 He has no experience as a Cabinet member at a time when Japan is facing a host of difficult problems, including a slumping economy, a soaring yen and the need to conclude crucial trade talks with the United States.
 What is even more appalling to some is that Mr. Murayama was elected by a marriage of convenience between the Socialists and their archrivals, the conservative Liberal Democrats, whose policies are often diametrically opposed. It is a marriage based solely on the desire for power.
 "It is without any kind of philosophy or rationality," said Ikuo Kabashima, a professor of political science at the University of Tsukuba. Haruo Shimada, an economist at Keio University, agreed. "If you check 10 people on the street, 8 of the 10 are angry, disappointed."
 The wide differences between the Socialists and Liberal Democrats mean that the ruling coalition is likely to be fractious and fragile and probably short-lived, with paralysis in the meantime. And business leaders here worry it will present a poor picture of Japan to the world.
 Mr. Murayama, who has virtually no experience in foreign policy, will appear on the world stage for the first time when he represents Japan at the summit meeting of industrialized nations at the end of next week in Naples and meets President Clinton in a separate meeting while he is there.
 The election of the first Socialist Prime Minister in decades could slow or reverse the movement Japan has been making in reforming its electoral system, opening its markets to foreign products and removing onerous economic regulations. Trade Talks Endangered
 Trade negotiations with the United States could also be slowed, either because of policy paralysis or because the Socialists have little experience in such matters. Agreements to open Japan's markets to foreign insurance policies, telecommunications and medical equipment and automobiles by the Naples meeting are now virtually out of the question
 The Socialists are likely to oppose any sanctions against North Korea, making it harder for the United States to maneuver.
 The new government might also delay income tax cuts that are sought by businesses here and by the United States as a way of stimulating Japan's economy. The Socialists oppose increasing the sales tax to compensate for lost revenue from the income tax cut. But the powerful Finance Ministry is insisting on a sales tax increase.
 The business community is fearful of the Socialists. The Japanese stock market is expected to sink and the yen to rise to new highs against the dollar, as prospects for trade agreements with the United States grow dimmer. Already in New York trading today the dollar dropped below 99 yen for the first time since the modern trading system began after World War II.
 But predicting the policies of the new government is difficult, in part because Mr. Murayama's views are not well known and because of the nature of the coalition. Some experts say the Socialists will have to subordinate their policies to those of the Liberal Democrats, who outnumber them.
 "This is a puppet government of the Liberal Democratic Party," said Michitoshi Takabatake, professor of political science at Rikkyo University. "Murayama-san is only a figurehead."
 The Liberal Democratic Party is friendly to the United States, and would likely cooperate in sanctions on North Korea if need be. But they, like the Socialists, would also have an interest in slowing down political reform and deregulation. Both the Socialists and the Liberal Democrats draw much of their support from farmers, who suffer from freer imports.
 Mr. Murayama was born on March 3, 1924, in Oita City on Japan's southern island of Kyushu, the seventh of 11 children. He entered the Socialist Party after graduating with a degree in politics and economics from Meiji University in Tokyo in 1946. He began working for the Oita Prefecture government and also became active in the union of prefectural workers.
 Mr. Murayama's political rise was slow and inconspicuous. In 1955 he won a seat on the Oita City Assembly. In 1963 he was elected to the prefectural assembly.
 
Party Picks Him as Chief
 In 1972 he was elected for the first time to the lower house of Parliament. He did not stand out as a legislator, although he had a reputation as a specialist in social welfare and health care issues.
 His sudden propulsion into the limelight came after the Socialist Party had performed poorly in parliamentary elections last July. Sadao Yamahana, the leader of the party, was forced to resign.
 The party is split between left wing the right wing. Mr. Murayama is on the left side of the party but not the extreme left, and he emerged as a compromise choice, becoming chairman last September.
 Married with two daughters, Mr. Murayama is portrayed as being untainted by corruption and unassuming in style.
 He is proud of the trademark long eyebrows that are so long that they can be combed. On the wall of his office is a sign he received from another politician reading, "Firm eyebrows and decision-making."
 But his policies are more of a mystery and some critics say he changes them to mollify different party factions. His loyalty seems first and foremost to the party, his aim to keep the party from splintering.
 Mr. Murayama had to be flexible in the last year. The Socialist Party entered the coalition of Prime Minister Morihiro Hosokawa last summer but disagreed with the other coalition members on major issues and had to swallow its principles to keep its share of power.
 The Socialists went along with opening Japan's rice market and with political reform, even though they opposed both. They revolted against Mr. Hosokawa's plan to cut income taxes and raise sales taxes, forcing the Prime Minister to withdraw his proposal one day after making it.
 After Mr. Hosokawa resigned because of questions about his personal finances and Tsutomu Hata became Prime Minister, some conservative parties in the coalition formed a parliamentary bloc.
 Sensing a plot to isolate the Socialists, Mr. Murayama and his party bolted from the coalition. The coalition became a minority government, setting the stage for Mr. Hata's ouster and the elevation of an obscure fisherman's son to assume the most powerful seat in the world's second largest economy.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tomiichi Murayama, chairman of the Social Democratic Party, acknowledging applause yesterday as he was formally elected Prime Minister of Japan in a lower house runoff election. The conservative Liberal Democrats and the leftist Socialists united in a coalition, ending weeks of political upheaval. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography; News Analysis

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: I CAN'T BELIEVE IT'S YOGURT (57%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); SOCIAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); CELEBRITIES (74%); LOBBYING (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); EMERGING MARKETS (72%); DEREGULATION (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); FINES & PENALTIES (65%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CORRUPTION (52%); INCOME TAX (52%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%); JAPANESE YEN (50%); LABOR UNIONS (50%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (84%); 

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1994

 
