

401 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: Plenty of Good Seats Still Available

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Jets are hot, but their fans know the heartbreak of high hopes. A losing tradition has been the backdrop to the team's sales of personal seat licenses at the Jets' and Giants' new stadium.
 Fans have had to balance their passion with the sanity of spending thousands of dollars, in a terrible economy, for the continued right to buy season tickets to see a team that has rarely rewarded their devotion. 
 Now, as the Jets accelerate their marketing before the 82,500-seat stadium opens next season, they seem like a legitimate team with a good future, perhaps even a marketable one that does not have to rely on 40-year-old glory, a fan in a firefighter's helmet or a 40-year-old arm that performs better in Minneapolis than in New Jersey. 
 Who knew that whipping the Cincinnati Bengals two weeks in a row could do so much for team psychology? 
 ''Eight minutes after the Jets won on Saturday -- boom! -- they sent me an invoice for A.F.C. championship game tickets,'' said Murray Maleh, a season-ticket holder from Manhattan. 
 If the Jets and the Baltimore Ravens win this weekend, they will play in the title game Jan. 24 at Giants Stadium.
 Already, 10,000 tickets to that game have been sold to season-ticket holders, according to the team.
 It will not be difficult to sell out the stadium for a conference championship game. More important to the Jets is selling out the new stadium, where two-thirds of the seats (the upper deck is exempted) require buying personal seat licenses for $4,000 to more than $30,000 each. An auction in late 2008 of 2,028 licenses to the Coaches Club seats behind the home bench did not create a buying frenzy: 620 sold for an average of $26,000 each.
 Only the Jets know how many licenses have been sold to their nearly captive market.
 And they refuse to say how many remain. 
 ''Sales are going well,'' said Matthew Higgins, the Jets' executive vice president for business operations. ''December was a record month.'' 
 Winning six of the last seven games has helped sales. So does a slowly improving economy and the chance to let buyers tour the nearly completed stadium, which is ahead of schedule. 
 Higgins said that all of the seats in the Coaches Club, which contains the most expensive seat licenses in the house, have been sold, at prices from $30,000 to $80,000.
 ''We're committed to selling out the building before we open,'' he said.
 The Giants are more forthcoming with numbers, perhaps because they are closer to a sellout. The team says it has fewer than 1,500 seat licenses left, all in club areas, including 300 for the most expensive behind their home bench.
 The Jets have been selling their P.S.L.'s with an odd slogan, ''Opportunity Has Never Knocked This Hard,'' which suggests that fans would have razed the old stadium themselves simply to pay a lot more to sit in the new one. And they have also tried to listen to their customers. 
 Last week Steve Cohen, a season-ticket holder from Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., received an e-mail survey that was sent to a certain subset of fans. It asked him to designate prices for four different seat locations in the new stadium as a bargain, fair or too expensive. ''It seems P.S.L. sales aren't going well, and they were looking at what level they can make them move,'' he said. He said he would pay $5,000 to $8,000 per license for the equivalent of his current lower-bowl Giants Stadium seats. But, he added, ''If I've got to go upstairs, I'm a TV watcher.'' 
 The Jets say that asking fans what they would pay will not lead to reducing prices on slow-moving seats but could help them develop promotions like zero-percent financing for a year. 
 Thad Sheely, the Jets' executive vice president for stadium development, said, ''We're trying to isolate the extent to which the benefit will move purchasing intent.''
 Maleh answered a different survey in November. But, like the one Cohen received, it disappeared from the user's control once it was sent in, a nifty form of cyber self-destruction that kept parts of it from being reprinted here.
 ''It had tons of questions about the new stadium,'' Maleh said, and it asked him for answers on subjects from tailgating to P.S.L.'s. Like others who cannot afford licenses or are boycotting them on principle, Maleh bought four season tickets in the new Meadowlands stadium's 27,000-seat upper tier, where P.S.L.'s are not needed. 
 ''It bothers me that it's all about money,'' Maleh said. ''In the off-season, when they're making moves, like getting Bart Scott, or oooh, they got Bret Favre, you know it's because they've got a new stadium.''
 And, according to the team's latest commercial, it will be the place where opportunity has never been so close, bold, stylish, delicious, memorable, vivid, beautiful, loud and huge. 
 That's a lot of adjectives for Rex Ryan and a $1.6 billion stadium to schlep around. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The final N.F.L. regular-season game at Giants Stadium on Jan. 3. The Jets and the Giants move to a new home next season. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); TICKET SALES (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK JETS (94%); CINCINNATI BENGALS (56%); BALTIMORE RAVENS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (56%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (58%); OHIO, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



402 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 2239 words

HEADLINE: Time-Traveling With the Muses in Boston

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
You love art. When and where did that start? In school? At home? In books? For me it began when I was a kid in the 1950s and '60s, before and during my teens. The primal scene was divided between two Boston museums where I spent a lot of time. I visited both again last week to check memory against reality and got a surprise: sometimes they match up.
 I come from an art-loving family. Midwinter Saturdays, slushy and short in New England, were museum days. Our mainstays were the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum, close to each other on the Fenway, a bayou-like tract of Olmsted parkland. There were early hopes that the area would attract rich residents, become chic, but it didn't and the museums were a bit marooned there.
 That was O.K. It meant they were quiet. In the preblockbuster 1950s foot traffic was light and the number of guards small. I knew them, they knew me. And I knew my way around. I could spend a day more or less on my own there, and I'd be fine. 
 Looking at art in a sustained, serious way is a funny thing -- odd, not bad -- for a young person to do. It entails a certain amount of simply staying still, maybe an appetite for language given art's exotic names and terms, and a readerly knack for imaginative projection, for participating in stories rather than just receiving them.
 That said, I think I first got hooked on museums the way many kids do, through the thrills and chills of Egyptian art.
 Why? For one thing, the Museum of Fine Arts had a ton of it, the largest collection outside Cairo. In 1905 the museum had teamed up with Harvard on archaeological digs in Giza, after striking a divide-the-spoils deal with Egypt: half of what was excavated would stay in that country, the rest would go to Boston.
 Treasures came, and they look as magnetic now, and in some of the same ways, as they did when I was 10. Of all ancient art Egyptian feels particularly modern, even futuristic, or so I thought. With their neat figures and confident smiles, the Old Kingdom ruler Mycerinus and his queen, in a renowned carved portrait, looked like friends of my parents arriving for cocktails, straight from a spaceship.
 The doll-size wooden models of everyday scenes stockpiled in tombs made it seem as if, for the Egyptians, eternity was an endless game of playing house. (You'll find nearly a hundred of these miniature sculptures, all belonging to the museum and all on view for the first time, in a special show called ''The Secrets of Tomb 10A: Egypt 2000 B.C.'') 
 And then there were mummies, laid out, just as I remembered, in a cryptlike space. They're probably the real reason for preteen Egyptomania. They aren't art, they aren't objects: they're bodies, and for many children they give a riveting first brush with the physical fact of death. They did that for me, and it took years before I could get beyond it to see Egyptian art as, above all, about the irrepressible hunger for life.
 The Egyptian galleries were an immersive environment, but they weren't the only ones. There was also the chapel-like enclosure for the display of 12th-century frescoes from the apse of a Catalonian church.
 The main image, a giant Jesus with a doleful face and bizarrely long fingers, appeared to change shape and dimension before my eyes, swelling into the dome, floating free of it, flattening out and tipping forward as if to crash into the room. How, I wondered as a kid, did artists get such effects from plaster and paint? I don't know, but the effects work; the paint -- protected with a solution of lime and Parmesan cheese when the frescoes arrived from Spain in 1919 -- still looks fresh.
 For me individual paintings were the worlds within worlds that really mattered, which is why I loved them so much so early. Rogier van der Weyden's mid-15th-century ''St. Luke Drawing the Virgin and Child'' was a favorite. I looked at it inexhaustibly, not because of the subject but because every detail was concrete and complete: the main figures in a neat tight room with a hint of adjacent rooms and beyond that a garden, the turreted town, a canal or river running to the horizon.
 This picture taught me what perspective was. And it taught me what art, and specifically painting, was or could be: an embodiment of order, a universe that you could, just though looking, move into and inhabit, where you could set up a life, live an ideal.
 Art also held uneasy mysteries, the seeds of a moral and sentimental education. I remember looking again and again at Velasquez's ''Don Baltasar Carlos With a Dwarf.'' The blond baby prince in the gold-stitched gown commands the picture, but more interesting to me was the second child, who wasn't a child -- or was he? -- with his bristly hair, white apron and slack, cautious sideways glance. What was this pairing about? I didn't know, but there was sadness.
 I was attracted to psychological drama. But I was simultaneously pulled in the opposite direction, which is why I so often ended up in the Japanese Buddhist Hall, a kind of minitemple lined with sculptures. I would claim the time spent there as my formative Asian experience (I later studied Asian art in graduate school), except that the idea of Asia was always so much in the air in Boston, a port city with an 18th-century history in the China trade and 19th-century links to Japan. 
 Although I didn't know it, I was sharing the Japanese galleries with venerable spirits, Bostonian Asiaphiles all.
 There was Edward Sylvester Morse, a zoologist who went to Japan in 1862 to study brachiopods and ended up amassing ceramics. And the art historian Ernest Fenollosa who, while teaching political economy in Tokyo, snapped up art that the Japanese, in a modernizing frenzy, were throwing away. And William Sturgis Bigelow, a Boston Brahmin on a spiritual quest, who helped buy many of the monumental Buddhas that surrounded me.
 You'll find the names of these men on labels in the Asian galleries, along with those of the collectors and scholars Charles Goddard Weld, Denman Waldo Ross and Okakura Kakuzo. I know about them now and about their continuing local resonance. Boston has a tenacious cultural memory. To a degree that would surprise and perplex New Yorkers, the Victorian age lives on in the city and its art institutions, even after decades of change and update.
 The Museum of Fine Arts has been through plenty of both and is in the midst of a big change now, which may be why I found it somewhat discombobulated last week (though part of that may have been me trying to sort out old from new). In November the museum will inaugurate a wing devoted to contemporary art and to the Art of the Americas. In the 1950s, and even in the '60s, the contemporary holdings were, as far as I was aware, pretty meager. No more. The Art of the Americas, as a multicultural category, didn't exist in the late Victorian-to-Gilded Age museum of my youth.
 Do I miss that museum? Most of what I remember is still there, even the quietude; I had the Buddhas and the mummies to myself. But now there's more.
 In any case, if late Victorian-to-Gilded Age is what you're after, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum is a five-minute walk away, an inviolate time capsule of a period and a personality, and conceived as such. The details of its building at the turn of the 20th century are oft told. Isabella Gardner was a New York City-born Bostonian with a decent fortune, shrewd advisers (Bernard Berenson chief among them), eclectic tastes, personal chutzpah and a belief in more is more.
 So equipped, she patched together the museum, which was also her home, from countless architectural fragments to create an inside-out Venetian palazzo. She then packed it to the ceilings with Renaissance paintings, Roman sculptures, rococo furniture, modern drawings, medieval whats-its and Asian doodads, each as exactingly placed as a piece of mosaic.
 Talk about walk-in environments. This was an exercise in installation art before the term was invented, postmodern before postmodernism, a minutely customized total work of art. And it was designed to remain so. Gardner's will -- she died in 1924 -- stipulated that if a single object were removed or so much as relocated, the whole pile would go to auction.
 It's easy to forget, given the museum that survives, how exciting its creation must have been, with new pieces constantly arriving, sending ripples, fresh harmonies and ever more intricate cross-references through the ensemble. You still get an impression of fluidity and growth from the grand central courtyard, with its glass roof and seasonal plantings. The first sight of it and scent of damp earth instantly takes me back to a moment, decades ago, when I came in from the cold Fenway to the sight of nasturtium spilling from courtyard balconies.
 I was a teenager. I already knew the museum, had walked its rooms. To me it was a wonder cabinet, exciting exactly for its untrammeled mix of images and styles, for an abundance so relentless that no single piece ever came fully into focus, everything was more or less on a par with everything else.
 The art object was less important than the art experience.
 That experience starts the minute you see the courtyard and intensifies as you walk up the stairs to the Early Italian Room. There it's hard to miss Piero della Francesca's painting of Hercules, looking as buff and blank-eyed as a male model. Somewhere -- but not in the gallery, for there are no labels -- you might have learned that this is the only fresco by the artist in the United States and that it came from a wall in his home. Why did he paint it? No one knows. And why did Gardner put it in a gallery with Simone Martini's chaste, dressed-in-layers saints? No one knows that either, though the play of flesh-versus-spirit, Classical-versus-Gothic feels subtle and smart. 
 Lighting is a problem here, a frustrating mix of dimness and glare. But that was the way Gardner wanted it; these galleries were not wired for electricity during her lifetime.
 Not all her paintings, I've come to learn, are fabulous. Some are better cast in shade. When she had a winner, though, she knew what to do. She installed it near a window, even if this put the painting out of sight, as in the case of Fra Angelico's ''Death and Assumption of the Virgin,'' a little concerto in blue and gold, hung around a corner beside a fireplace.
 Once you find it there, it's yours, your secret. The whole place is like that, a path of discoveries, and habitues have their own mental maps. When I was 15 or so, mine included a pair of bronze Han dynasty bears (Gardner, who knew all the Boston Buddhists, has a small Asian collection), a Michelangelo drawing, Bartolome Bermejo's painting of St. Engracia and a Matisse.
 Certain things weren't on such personal charts because everyone knew they were great, like Titian's ''Rape of Europa.'' I wasn't initially clear about what was going in it (large lady, putti, spooked bull); I learned later. The Gardner, as if to finesse any confusion, now uses the title ''Europa.'' I preferred a painting nearby, the more modest ''Christ Carrying the Cross,'' even though its attribution slipped from Giorgione to a follower of Bellini.
 At normal museums such a demotion would likely put a painting on ice. In the context of the Gardner its status hasn't much changed because, like other pieces in the collection, this one has a personal story. The picture came to Gardner just before her husband died, and she made it a shrine to his memory, always keeping a cup of fresh flowers -- violets in season -- in front of it.
 They're still there.
 I've come to take this painting as a positive lesson in the politics of charisma. I've also learned that time can be rough on enchantment. On my visit last week, sections of the museum filled with unidentified, feebly lighted objects seemed more attic than palazzo. (Berenson's wife, Mary, once compared it to a junk shop.) The so-called Dutch Room looked especially forlorn, hung with empty frames awaiting the return of paintings -- ''The Concert'' by Vermeer, Rembrandt's ''Storm on the Sea of Galilee'' -- stolen 20 years ago.
 But as you turn from the empty frames and head for the stairs you see another Rembrandt, an early self-portrait, an image of a pasty-faced, uncool guy who, with the help of puffy hat and some backlighting, has made himself a V.I.P. It's a wonderful picture, and doubly wonderful being where it is, in this kooky house full of saints, and rickety chairs, and John Singer Sargents.
 When I was a very young, I thought the Gardner was the most glamorous place there was. Now I see that it's as funky as it is elegant. And, on the wishes of its founder, it is pressed between the pages of history, like a dried flower. This may not be so bad. In New York -- capital of the cosmetic enhancement -- it would be. Boston is different, though even here there is pressure to keep on the move, which in a peripheral way the Gardner is doing: a new wing, designed by Renzo Piano, is under way.
 But unless someone goes to court and undoes the will, the museum I first saw half a century ago is the same one I'd see if I were around half a century from now. I won't be, but some kid will, wandering in on a winter afternoon, seeing the light, smelling the earth, and looking -- really looking -- with love in his eyes. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An art column on Jan. 15 about the Museum of Fine Arts and the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston referred incorrectly to the size of the Egyptian collection at the Museum of Fine Arts. The museum says it has the largest collection of Egyptian Old Kingdom art outside of Cairo, not the largest collection of all Egyptian art outside that city.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, with the ''Appeal to the Great Spirit'' statue at the Huntington entrance
right, Koch Gallery. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C27)
Above, visitors at the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, in 1965 line up to see ''Whistler's Mother'' (''Arrangement in Gray and Black, No. 1: Portrait of the Artist's Mother''). Left and below, views of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum and courtyard. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSEUM OF FINE ARTS, BOSTON
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Top, Catalonian church frescoes at the Museum of Fine Arts. Above, ''Europa'' and ''Christ Carrying the Cross'' at the Gardner Museum. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARCHAEOLOGY (77%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (77%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (96%); CAIRO, EGYPT (76%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); EGYPT (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



403 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Division I Colleges Revisit Status of Sand Volleyball as Emerging Sport

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and KATIE THOMAS

 BODY:
N.C.A.A. institutions are expected to vote Friday on a measure that could knock sand volleyball -- the popular outdoor cousin of indoor volleyball -- off a list of emerging sports seeking full championship status. 
 Among the 63 colleges trying to remove the sport commonly known as beach volleyball are all 11 members of the Big Ten Conference as well as Duke, Clemson and Stanford. The override proposal requires the approval of five-eighths of Division I colleges and conferences in attendance at the N.C.A.A. convention in Atlanta. 
 Colleges with established indoor programs fear that those that add sand volleyball will have an advantage in recruiting over schools that have only the more traditional version of the sport. They also worry that given scarce resources during the recession, one iteration of the game will siphon from the other. The conflict has pitted colleges in warm-weather states against rivals in northern and Midwestern states. 
 Beach volleyball, with its bikini-clad athletes and beach culture aesthetic, has surged in popularity ever since the sport was added to the Summer Olympics in 1996. This popular appeal is one reason CBS College Sports Network helped create the women's Collegiate Beach Volleyball Championship, which it has carried the last four years. 
 ''The desire is there, the love of the sport is there and the time has come to develop sand volleyball,'' said Kerri Walsh, who with Misty May-Treanor has dominated the women's Olympic beach event. Walsh was a star indoor player at Stanford. ''I think people are stuck in their traditions and change is difficult when you're stuck in those traditions.'' 
 Sand volleyball was added to the list of emerging sports last April, a designation intended to encourage the development of opportunities for women by awarding N.C.A.A. subsidies to colleges that initiate programs. Sports on the list are given full championship status if 40 colleges begin programs within 10 years. Sand volleyball is expected to be played in the spring, and indoor volleyball takes place in the fall, allowing athletes to play for both teams.
 If sand volleyball supporters stave off the override, they will begin addressing development issues like how to recruit players and when to schedule games. 
 Sand volleyball's status as an emerging sport in Division II has not been challenged, and Division III administrators chose not to grant the sport emerging status.
 Supporters argue that new programs would create new scholarships and a pipeline of talent for the country's Olympic team and professional circuit. Investing in the sport is voluntary and relatively inexpensive, they say, and a potential moneymaker for schools. 
 ''Sand volleyball will open up an explosion of opportunities,'' said Kathy DeBoer, the executive director of the American Volleyball Coaches Association, the governing body for volleyball coaches nationally. ''You're going to get an opportunity for kids who might not have played before.''
 DeBoer does not deny that sand volleyball will initially draw indoor volleyball players, a threat to established programs. The same was true of women's field hockey and lacrosse teams that attracted soccer players at first. But over the long term, she said, players will specialize in sand volleyball just as they have at the indoor game.
 But Mark Rosen, the volleyball coach at the University of Michigan, opposes sand volleyball because he says it puts schools in cold-weather states at a disadvantage. ''If a school in the South has both programs and one in the north doesn't, it forces me to lose a recruit or ask my athletic director to spend money where he can't spend it elsewhere,'' he said.
 Rosen said many northern schools will end up playing a majority of their games on the road because it will be too cold at home to play outdoors in March or April.
 Colleges that want to override sand volleyball also question how many new scholarships will really be created. Initially, cash-strapped universities may ask indoor players and coaches to participate in sand volleyball as well.
 ''When you start double-dipping, you're not adding,'' Rosen said.
 Sand volleyball backers note that the number of sand volleyball players nationwide grew 7.5 percent in 2008, to 4.2 million players, according to a study by the Sporting Goods Manufacturing Association. About 64 percent of those players did not play the indoor game, the study showed.
 The best solution, some say, is for both sides to take more time to resolve their differences.
 ''They are politicizing it and once it's off the table, it's hard to get it back,'' said Billy Stone, an executive producer for the CBS College Sports Network's Alt Games event. ''The last thing you would want to do is quickly vote against this and eliminate opportunities for women.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beach volleyball, above at the Beijing Games in 2008, has soared in popularity since being added to the Olympics in 1996.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMIE SQUIRE/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); OLYMPICS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (77%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (77%); APPROVALS (73%); WOMEN (72%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: DUKE UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (57%); BIG TEN ATHLETIC CONFERENCE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (72%) MIDWEST USA (76%); GEORGIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



404 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; TELEVISION REVIEW 'HUMAN TARGET'; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 791 words

HEADLINE: From a Troubled Past, Into the Line of Fire

BYLINE: By MIKE HALE

 BODY:
''Human Target,'' beginning on Sunday night on Fox, has an unusually small set of regular characters. Through the first two episodes there are just three: Chance and Winston (Mark Valley and Chi McBride), partners in an unconventional security firm, and Guerrero (Jackie Earle Haley), the shady figure they employ to hack into corporate and government computer systems.
 It's tempting -- and probably at least partly correct -- to speculate that this compact cast is a money-saving choice on the producers' part. Fewer salaries mean more dollars in the budget for the show's action sequences, which, if not always visually impressive, are bountiful by television standards. (When was the last time you saw a pair of small-screen actors being rotated 180 degrees in a life-size mock-up of an airplane cockpit?) 
 But there's another way to look at it. For years broadcast-network crime dramas have gone in for large ensembles -- the six- and seven- and eight-member teams that generate subplots and allow a different character to be put in harm's way each week. One of the biggest offenders in this regard is ''24,'' the show with which Fox wants us to associate ''Human Target.'' (They're paired this weekend, before ''Target'' moves to its regular Wednesday slot after ''American Idol.'')
 In that sense ''Human Target'' is a throwback to a time before all prime-time dramas had to be soap operas. It's a cross between a cartoon and a Saturday matinee, loosely based on the DC Comics book of the same title, about Chance, an extreme bodyguard who protects people by inserting himself into their lives in such a way that he becomes the target himself. The economy in casting means not just more money but also more screen time for the action (including some long, violent fights), and humorous banter is easier to write for two or three characters than six or seven.
 That last point was demonstrated in the 1970s by ''The Rockford Files,'' which Mr. Valley cites as a forerunner in the ''Human Target'' press materials. He also names ''The A-Team''; Jonathan E. Steinberg, the producer who developed the show, refers to 1980s action movies. At the end of the pilot episode, Danny Glover appears in an odd cameo that's clearly a homage to the ''Lethal Weapon'' films.
 ''Human Target'' will stand out, like a lighter-hearted ''24,'' in a landscape dominated by police procedurals focused on forensics and psychology. The first two episodes put Chance on out-of-control vehicles full of innocent passengers -- a mythical California bullet train and the aforementioned jet -- where saving the day is as important as solving the case.
 At this early stage, though, the show is still struggling to capture the jaunty tone it's striving for. There's too much hinting around about Chance's troubled past -- reflecting the solemn pretensions of the comic book -- and the writing, in terms of both humor and plotting, isn't at the level of the show's role models. Mr. Steinberg, whose only significant previous credit is the post-apocalypse series ''Jericho,'' could still learn a lot from Stephen J. Cannell, who had a hand in ''The Rockford Files'' and ''The A-Team,'' as well as ''Wiseguy.''
 The show's premise doesn't help. In practice, Chance's method doesn't make a lot of sense -- it would be easier for his clients just to stay home. (To get around this, Wednesday's episode employs a convoluted plot in which the real target doesn't know he's a target.) What tends to happen is that Chance's presence puts his clients in even more danger, right up until he punches and barrel-rolls his way out of it. 
 The biggest thing ''Human Target'' has going for it is that its cast makes up in quality what it lacks in quantity. Mr. McBride, whose Winston provides an avuncular counterweight to the loose cannon Chance, is a proven master at eye-rolling forbearance and wounded pride. Mr. Haley, in his first regular television role since ''Breaking Away'' in 1980, brings an eccentric, unsettling energy to the squirrelly genius Guerrero. 
 Mr. Valley, most recently seen as a living-dead F.B.I. agent on ''Fringe,'' isn't ideally cast as a wild-man hero with a death wish -- he projects calm rather than crazy -- but he looks great and handles his nonstop action duties capably. For now, they're an A team in a B series.
 HUMAN TARGET
 Fox, Sunday at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.
 Pilot directed by Simon West; McG, Jonathan E. Steinberg, Brad Kern, Peter Johnson and Mr. West, executive producers. Produced by Bonanza Productions in association with Wonderland Sound and Vision, DC Comics and Warner Brothers Television.
 WITH: Mark Valley (Christopher Chance), Chi McBride (Winston), Jackie Earle Haley (Guerrero) and Danny Glover.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Men of action who save the day: From left, Jackie Earle Haley, Chi McBride and Mark Valley make up the small ensemble cast of ''Human Target,'' a series based on DC Comics characters that has its premiere on Sunday night on Fox.
 Mr. Valley plays Chance, right, a bodyguard who uses unusual methods to protect clients from danger. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL COURTNEY/FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); ACTION & ADVENTURE FILMS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (77%); COMPUTER CRIME (76%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); BUDGETS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (74%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); FILM (73%); DRAMA FILMS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); FORENSICS (67%)

COMPANY: DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Human Target (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



405 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 664 words

HEADLINE: Regulator Imposes More Limits on Speculative Trading

BYLINE: By JAD MOUAWAD

 BODY:
Federal regulators said on Thursday that they would impose hard limits on energy futures contracts held by commodity traders, part of a move to curb excessive speculation and possibly avoid a repeat of the 2008 run-up in oil prices.
 The Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the top futures market regulator, said the limits would be similar to those governing agricultural markets and would apply to futures contracts for crude oil, natural gas, heating oil and gasoline. The rules are intended to prevent a few traders from distorting prices by dominating a single market, the agency said. 
 The measure is ostensibly aimed at reducing speculation in the energy markets, which some analysts suggested was to blame for driving oil futures well above $100 a barrel in 2008. It restores position limits that existed before 2001, when they were eliminated in a wide-ranging deregulation of financial markets.
 The proposed rules, which come as the administration is proposing an overhaul of the financial system, are intended to quell public anger about the perceived role of larger traders in driving up oil and gasoline prices. 
 But the regulatory agency needs to tread carefully: it must appease lawmakers' anger about unregulated financial markets but avoid tightening the regulatory screws too much and sending commodity trading overseas or into unregulated over-the-counter markets. 
 ''Regulatory-wise, this is pretty serious stuff, but they don't want to rock the boat, they don't want to cause market dislocations, they don't want a decrease in liquidity, and they don't want to risk regulatory arbitrage -- which means activity moving from New York to London,'' said Mike Wittner, the head of commodity research at Societe Generale in London.
 Yet some analysts contended that the move was unlikely to avert a new spike. In their view, energy prices are driven by long-term demand and supply balances, and many traders and analysts pointed out that consumption growth could outpace supplies in coming years. Others believe the rise in ever-more-sophisticated financial flows into commodity markets were a main driver behind higher prices since 2001.
 Setting trading limits has been a priority for the agency's chairman, Gary Gensler, a former executive at Goldman Sachs before serving as a senior Treasury official in the Clinton administration. Long skeptical of regulation, Mr. Gensler has changed his views since being named the agency's chairman by President Obama. He has pushed more aggressively to impose new rules on energy and commodity markets while asserting his agency's role as the main regulator of the futures market. 
 The outrage over high energy costs has largely been overtaken by fury against Wall Street bonuses and fears about the economy. But while oil prices have fallen from their records, they remain at historically high levels, despite a weak economy, ample spare production capacity and a surplus of commercial stocks.
 The commission's new measures are aimed at curtailing so-called speculative traders. Commercial traders, like airlines or oil refiners that need to hedge their positions as part of their normal business activity, would be exempt from the position limits. Other entities, like swap dealers, would be allowed to apply for some limited risk-management exemptions that would have to be updated each year. 
 The limits will be set on all futures and options contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange and the Intercontinental Exchange.
 While the move restores the limits scrapped nearly a decade ago, the proposed rules are looser than many market participants, including investment banks that derive substantial profits from their trading arms, had feared. 
 Bartholomew Chilton, one of the agency's five commissioners, said the proposed limits ''err on the high side'' but he added that the agency could decide to lower them if needed. The proposed rules are now open for a 90-day public comment period. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Commodities traders in New York. An oversight agency hopes to stave off a surge in oil prices. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARY ALTAFFER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUTURES (94%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); FUEL MARKETS (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); HEATING OIL (77%); CONSUMPTION (72%); US PRESIDENTS (60%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (68%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



406 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Museums and Lawmakers Mull Sales of Art

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
It was once considered unthinkable: the notion of a museum selling off parts of its collection to pay the bills. But the recession has forced some institutions to do that -- or at least consider it -- and members of the New York State Legislature have been trying to draft a bill that would regulate such deaccessioning of artworks and artifacts.
 On Thursday representatives from museums in the New York City area came together to debate the issue in a State Assembly Hearing Room in Lower Manhattan -- a round-table meeting billed as the first discussion of deaccessioning among state policymakers and museum professionals in a public setting. 
 Specifically, the meeting was called to give those professionals a chance to weigh in on, and ask questions about, proposed legislation drafted by Assemblyman Richard L. Brodsky -- in collaboration with the New York State Board of Regents and the Museum Association of New York -- that would prohibit museums from using proceeds from the sale of artworks ''for traditional and customary operating expenses'' (as opposed to new acquisitions, a purpose that is generally considered acceptable). 
 Introduced to the assembly in March, the bill was prompted by concern that the recession is pushing museums to consider extreme measures. The discussion has noted a number of recent cases, including the National Academy Museum's sale in 2008 of two Hudson River School paintings to cover operating costs and Brandeis University's announcement last year that it would close its Rose Art Museum in Waltham, Mass., and sell the collection because of its declining endowment, a plan that the university has since reconsidered.
 ''We have an incipient crisis,'' Mr. Brodsky said at the round table, adding that he wanted ''to make sure that we do not, in a crisis, see a massive privatization of art.'' 
 But leaders of institutions in dire financial straits say they are worried about more immediate crises. Carol Ghiorsi Hart, the executive director of the Suffolk County Vanderbilt Museum, said her institution faced the prospect of closing because of financial problems and went before the county legislature. ''They said, 'Why don't you sell something?' '' she said on Thursday. ''We said, 'We'll lose our accreditation.' '' 
 ''They said, 'Sell the mummy,' '' she added in a later interview. '' 'It's not like you're going to go to jail.' ''
 And Caroline Drabik, a curatorial associate at the Historic House Trust of New York City, which helps preserve historic houses in the parks, said the director of one of them had asked whether the legislation would allow deaccessioning to pay its heating bill. Mr. Brodsky's answer did not reassure her. ''The museum community at large has, after careful consideration, said the answer is no,'' he said. So ''in the end what you'll have is a very warm, empty building.''
 The round table was led by Assemblyman Steve Englebright, the chairman of the legislature's Committee on Tourism, Parks, Arts and Sports, who was joined on the panel by other state officials. One of them, Jonathan L. Bing, an assemblyman, said he objected to the bill on behalf of several major museums in his Upper East Side district that had expressed their concerns.
 ''To do this in the most significant economic downturn since the Great Depression doesn't make sense,'' he said.
 Matthew J. Titone, a Democratic assemblyman from Staten Island, countered, ''Now is the best time to be doing this because that is when those institutions will be most tempted to sell to the private sector something that belongs to the public.''
 Some organizations objected to particular provisions of the bill. Jonathan A. Small, a consultant to the Nonprofit Coordinating Committee of New York, said he was concerned that the bill would ''be read as applying to institutions not remotely related to collecting,'' like the University Settlement House on the Lower East Side, which for years has gathered photographs of its social service activities. ''Is that a collection?'' he asked. ''We would hope this bill would be clarified to, as Samuel Goldwyn said, 'Include me out.' ''
 And a number of participants complained that the administrative requirements in the legislation were too onerous. ''You're trying to address a problem with too broad of a stroke,'' said Michael J. Borges, executive director of the New York Library Association. With some 202 million items in New York State's libraries, 15 percent of which change every year, ''trying to get them all on a registry -- it's an astronomical task.'' Mr. Brodsky said he would address these concerns.
 Tama O'Brien, legal counsel at the International Center of Photography, suggested that perhaps the bill could define a possible ''exception to the total ban.''
 Mr. Brodsky said: ''I would not support that exception. You can't be a little pregnant, and you can't do a little deaccessioning.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); PAINTING (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); PRIVATIZATION (77%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); ACCREDITATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); INTERVIEWS (66%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (62%); COUNTIES (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



407 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 445 words

PERSON: Jay Reatard 

HEADLINE: Jay Reatard, 29, a Force in Punk Rock

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO; John Hubbell contributed reporting from Memphis.

 BODY:
Jimmy Lee Lindsey Jr., a prolific songwriter who, under the stage name Jay Reatard, was a force in the worlds of punk and garage rock, was found dead in his home in Memphis early on Wednesday. He was 29. 
 The Commercial Appeal of Memphis reported that a roommate had found him in bed, and the police have opened an investigation into his death. A spokeswoman for the Shelby County medical examiner in Tennessee said an autopsy had been performed but that a cause of death had not been determined.
 With a discography of 22 albums and more singles than even he could keep accurate count of, Mr. Lindsey was a creative tornado. And while his aesthetic was deliberately rough -- he favored corrosive blasts of guitar and simple smacks on the drums, usually recorded by Mr. Lindsey alone with the most minimal equipment -- his facility with sweet melodies and his concise, economical songwriting style earned him wide respect among critics and fans. 
 Mr. Lindsey was born in Lilbourn, Mo., and moved with his family to Memphis when he was 8; his precociousness as a teenage noisemaker got the Lindseys ejected from more than one address. ''We'd stay three to six months in a place, and they'd make us move 'cause he wouldn't turn that volume down,'' his father, Jimmy Lindsey, said. ''They even said, 'Don't worry about the lease, just go.' ''
 With help from members of the Oblivians, a proudly sloppy veteran Memphis garage-rock band, Mr. Lindsey started his recording career at 15 and released music with numerous bands, including the Reatards, the Lost Sounds, the Bad Times and the Final Solutions. By the mid-2000s he had established a reputation in the rock underground for his songwriting skill and devotion to do-it-yourself production methods, as well as for a sometimes belligerent stage manner.
 Mr. Lindsey began to reach a wider audience in 2006 with his first solo album, ''Blood Visions'' (Fat Possum), and in recent years he continued to produce music at a rapid pace. ''Few indie-rockers have ever been on a roll like this,'' Spin magazine said in a review of his latest album, ''Watch Me Fall,'' released in August on Matador Records, a trend-setting independent label in New York.
 He is survived by his mother, Devonna May; his father, Jimmy Lindsey; and three sisters, Leslie Lindsey, Stephanie Duncan and Gara May. 
 Mr. Lindsey's productivity was a source of as much admiration as curiosity in the music press, and he was often asked to explain his compulsion to create so much music so quickly.
 ''I'm just trying to get the idea out before the inspiration is gone,'' he said. ''Everything I do is motivated by the fear of running out of time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jay Reatard (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE BROWN/THE COMMERCIAL APPEAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); POP & ROCK (90%); SONG WRITING (90%); DEATHS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (88%); MUSIC REVIEWS (78%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); AUTOPSIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (77%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

CATEGORY: Music

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



408 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Far-Ranging Support for Google's Rebuff to China

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES; Sharon LaFraniere contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
Google's surprising decision this week to abandon cooperation with Chinese government censors -- and, possibly, its four-year effort to do business here -- is galvanizing an unusually broad coalition of foreigners who hope for a fresh chance to rein in the conduct of an emerging great power.
 Most of those forces -- from the American right and left, the business and technology communities and human-rights advocacy groups -- are united by a belief that their concerns over China's human-rights and free-speech constraints have been buried in a rush to online profit. 
Some of them have been dismayed by the conciliatory approach toward Beijing taken by the Obama administration, which counts Google's leadership among its most prominent political supporters. Others claim that the problems that prompted Google's stance are symptoms of a serious decline in China's business climate under an increasingly conservative leadership. But it is far from clear that this movement will succeed in prodding either the Chinese government or other companies that still dream of a vast market. 
 On Thursday, the Chinese government offered an indirect but unambiguous response: Companies that do business in China must follow the laws of the land.
 The comments, by two different officials on Thursday, suggested that China was unlikely to give ground on Google's demands that its search engine results be unfiltered.
 In recent weeks, Google has quietly taken some steps that in retrospect seem aimed squarely at addressing attacks it uncovered by hackers who tried to steal information on human rights activists. In December, a Google senior vice president, Jonathan Rosenberg, issued an online manifesto that placed Google's business and ethical interests squarely behind open information, and against censorship.
 ''There are forces aligned against the open Internet -- governments who control access, companies who fight in their own self-interests to preserve the status quo,'' he wrote. ''They are powerful, and if they succeed we will find ourselves inhabiting an Internet of fragmentation, stagnation, higher prices, and less competition.''
 More pointedly, a Google engineer's blog announced this week that the Gmail service, which was a target of the Chinese hackers, would henceforth employ extra encryption by default.
 Those who hope to use Google's stance as a wedge to put pressure on China argue that its refusal to cooperate with Chinese censors will prove a watershed.
 ''Good for Google for naming the elephant in the room,'' one Beijing entrepreneur, an American with a deep knowledge of China's Internet, said Thursday. That person, like many others interviewed, declined to be identified for fear that the Chinese government would retaliate. ''Who else in the world has moral authority against China?'' 
 Jonathan Zittrain, a Harvard law professor and a founder of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society, said Google's action had raised the ethical bar for foreign investors across China. But the early reaction to Google's announcement suggests otherwise. Microsoft, whose Bing search engine has entered the Chinese market, has shown no public inclination to change its business here. Apple's iTunes service still forbids Chinese users to download certain applications that refer to the Dalai Lama and the Uighur activist Rebiya Kadeer. 
 ''Your everyday investor in China is not concerned with these problems, especially when they're selling tractors, cars and airplanes,'' said Stephen A. Orlins, the president of the National Committee on United States-China Relations. A number of blogs argue that Google faced a dim future in China, where its search engine was a second to the home-grown Baidu service, and that threatening to leave was more a public relations move than a moral crusade.
 ''I don't think you'll see a giant ripple effect,'' said Mark Natkin, the managing director of Marbridge Consulting, an information technology research and consulting firm in Beijing. ''You can justify a lot of things if the pot of gold is big enough.'' 
 Some advocates are trying to reignite a debate about free speech that has been overshadowed by China's economic might. 
 Two American entrepreneurs working in China said that civil liberties supporters should consider pressing major investors like pension funds and university endowments to renounce their investment in Chinese companies that engage in repression or theft of intellectual property.
 Others suggested that Google employees, who are routinely allowed to spend one in five workdays on the project of their choice, devote their time to devising ways to subvert Chinese censorship of the Internet. Would those gambits work? One Internet industry analyst, who also declined to be named, said the major effect of Google's departure from Beijing would be to free 700 trained technology experts to work for a Chinese competitor. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Robin Li, second from right, is the chief executive officer of Baidu, the company whose search engine is No. 1 in China.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSORSHIP (89%); ETHICS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); SEARCH ENGINES (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (88%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



409 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1015 words

HEADLINE: Small Effect On Revenue, And Windfall In Publicity

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Google has said principle drove its threat to back out of China unless the government there allowed it to run its search engine without censorship. 
 Analysts say that inevitably, the decision was a business calculation, too. 
 Google's business in China, for now, remains small. Estimates put Google's China revenue last year at about $300 million, a tiny fraction of its more than $22 billion in global sales. 
 Still, Google's investment in China includes building a staff of more than 600 people there, many of them highly paid engineers. And in October, Eric E. Schmidt, Google's chief executive, predicted that China would become a dominant market for online businesses, saying that in five years, the Internet ''will be more non-English, it will be Chinese.'' Clearly, Google has high hopes for its business there. 
 But there is also an economic value, even if it is hard to gauge, of the good will that Google's decision has earned it. And it comes at an opportune moment. 
 For much of the last year, the company has been under attack for disregarding the rights of individual authors as it builds an immense digital library and bookstore. The company, which needs users of its Gmail and other services to trust it with their data, has been criticized for its privacy practices. And the federal government began multiple antitrust investigations into its business. 
 Lately, it has been difficult to find anyone in Silicon Valley who would utter Google's ''Don't be evil'' motto without a bit of a snicker. 
 But its surprising threat to pull up stakes in China has replaced the smirks with lavish praise. Much of it is coming from longtime critics. 
 For a company that has been in something of a defensive crouch for much of the last year, the turnaround has been swift.
 ''Taking the stance that they took put them on a higher plane,'' said Regis McKenna, a Silicon Valley marketing consultant. 
 If it stays, the potential losses to its reputation, and eventually its business, are real, too. ''Certainly they are aware that continuing to compromise in China would be seen as a move to the dark side,'' Mr. McKenna said. 
 Google strongly dismissed suggestions that economics played a role in its decision. ''We are not going to make a financially based decision to stay in a market that is intolerable for us,'' David Drummond, Google's chief legal officer, said this week. And he denied that public relations was a factor. ''This wasn't a question of P.R.,'' he said. ''It was a question of trying to do the right thing.'' 
 There is little doubt, however, that public perception of Google has shifted sharply since the company publicized online attacks on its computer systems this week, which it said were aimed in part at entering the Gmail accounts of Chinese human rights activists. 
 In China, young people deposited flowers in front of Google's offices, as praise for the company reverberated from Twitter to the reader forums of various newspapers. 
 The Electronic Frontier Foundation, an online civil liberties group and frequent critic of Google, commended the company in a blog post titled ''Uncensoring China -- Bravo Google.'' Human Rights Watch said that Google's response to the attacks ''sets a great example.'' On Capitol Hill, Republicans and Democrats alike hailed Google's move.
 Google's top executives, and many of its employees, are steeped in idealism and are strong supporters of free speech. The company agreed to censor its search engine in China in 2006 to enter that market, but only after an internal debate in which the founders, in particular Sergey Brin, who was born in the Soviet Union, argued strongly against it. 
 Still, some have argued that Google can afford to take a principled stance because the losses from leaving China are small. The company has struggled to compete with Baidu, the dominant China-based competitor, and some critics say the attacks gave Google a good excuse to pull up stakes and cut its losses. 
 Google rejected those suggestions. While Google's sales in China remain small, the business is growing rapidly and Google just had its best quarter in that country, said Gabriel Stricker, a Google spokesman. 
 Yet, he also suggested that Google could shut down its search engine in China with little financial impact, saying that the majority of its business in the country comes from ads that Chinese companies place on Google's American-based Web site. 
 The reaction on Wall Street suggests few worried that Google would suffer financially. While its shares dropped nearly 3 percent on Wednesday, the day after Google's announcement, they have regained most of their value. 
 Analysts say that Google's economic pain may one day be great but is not likely to be felt for years. But they also say that staying in China, especially after the attacks, was a risky proposition. Google's change of heart in China may not have been solely about freedom of speech, but also about something that strikes at the core of its business: the security of information stored on Google's servers. 
 ''The moment that some activist goes to jail because his Gmail account was compromised, Google will be accused of giving them up,'' said Siva Vaidhyanathan, associate professor of media studies and law at the University of Virginia. ''That would do incredible damage,'' not only among human rights advocates, but also for anyone who uses a Gmail account, he said.
 Some who praised Google's move have said that they hope other companies will follow suit. While the calculus on whether to abandon China is no doubt different for every company, following in Google's footsteps could have all the downside risk and may produce only marginal payoff -- at least on the publicity front. 
 ''To the extent that there is any realized gain from this kind of move, the first company to do it gets all the headlines,'' said David B. Yoffie, a professor at the Harvard Business School. ''The second company to do it will be seen as a follower who didn't have the courage to act according to its convictions in the first place.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Google's Chinese headquarters in Beijing. The company's revenue in the country last year was $300 million, a tiny slice of its more than $22 billion in global sales.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON LEE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC RELATIONS (83%); CENSORSHIP (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); INTERNET & WWW (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (70%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (69%); WRITERS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



410 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: 3rd-Party Candidate Named Kennedy Could Tip Senate Race in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Katie Zezima contributed reporting from Boston.

DATELINE: SPRINGFIELD, Mass. 

 BODY:
In most elections, a politician calling himself the Tea Party candidate would cheer Democrats, raising hopes that he would siphon votes from Republicans by attracting some of the disaffected anti-Washington, anti-Obama electorate. 
 But when the election is being held to fill a seat that was left vacant by the death of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, and the Tea Party candidate happens to be named Joe Kennedy, things get a little murkier. 
 Democrats here are concerned that some uninformed voters might confuse him for a member of the better-known, well-loved Kennedy clan, which he is not. And Mr. Kennedy's libertarian positions make him even more of a wild card in the last days of the race: some could appeal to the right, like his call to abolish the federal Department of Education, while others could appeal to the left, like his call for immediately ending the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 The underfinanced, little-publicized campaign of Mr. Kennedy, 38, is not likely to get many votes on Tuesday. But if the race between the major-party candidates -- Martha Coakley, a Democrat and the state's attorney general, and Scott Brown, a Republican state senator -- is as tight as some polls suggest, Mr. Kennedy could play a key role by drawing just a few percentage points from either of them. 
 The fate of the Democrats' bill to overhaul the health care system, whose passage depends on their keeping the Massachusetts Senate seat, just might be decided by Mr. Kennedy, a little-known information technology executive from Dedham.
 At a campaign event here on Thursday afternoon, Mr. Kennedy, who spoke at length about competing economic theories and seemed a bit bookish in his gray suit, black loafers and, at times, rimless glasses, did not look very much like someone who just might change the balance of power in the Senate. Only a dozen people showed up to hear him speak in a community room in the basement of a library here, and one man sat and read a newspaper for almost the entire time. 
 But in an interview afterward, Mr. Kennedy said he had been deluged with e-mail messages from supporters of Mr. Brown, urging him to drop out of the race because they fear he could dilute the Republican vote, thus enabling the health care bill to pass. 
 ''They say, 'He's taking votes from Scott Brown!' '' Mr. Kennedy said. ''And I say: 'Well, actually that's not true. Scott Brown and Martha Coakley are taking votes from Joe Kennedy!' ''
 Some aides to the other candidates believe that Mr. Kennedy may end up drawing nearly evenly from both sides. Ms. Coakley insisted that he get to participate in all the debates, clearly showing all who watched that this Joe Kennedy (Joseph E. Kennedy) was not the former congressman and nephew of the late Senator Kennedy (Joseph P. Kennedy II), who has endorsed Ms. Coakley. 
 Andrew E. Smith, the director of the University of New Hampshire Survey Center, said that Mr. Kennedy drew 5 percent of the vote in the latest poll he conducted for The Boston Globe, but that in the past, third-party candidates had often done better in polls than at the ballot box. 
 ''If he draws from anybody, my sense is that he draws probably a little bit more from Brown, the protest vote,'' Mr. Smith said.
 But Mr. Kennedy said that if anything, he believed that more of his support was coming from Democrats, who like his opposition to the war and to the Defense of Marriage Act. And he said that as someone who was a Tea Party protester before deciding to run for office and who has the support of some of the local Tea Party groups, he regretted that many national Tea Party groups were now planning to support Mr. Brown. 
 He noted that while Mr. Brown had vowed to be the vote to stop the Democrats' heath care bill in its tracks, Mr. Brown voted for the Massachusetts law to extend health insurance that was passed under another Republican, Mitt Romney. 
 ''I'm a lot more hard-core against health care than Scott is: Scott voted for RomneyCare,'' he said. ''But those people who are against ObamaCare are not throwing their vote to me in any way shape or form.''
 Indeed, FreedomWorks, a conservative organization led by former Representative Dick Armey that supports and organizes Tea Party rallies, is planning to begin a get-out-the-vote effort in Massachusetts this weekend -- to help Mr. Brown.
 Mr. Brown spent the day in Boston, attacking Ms. Coakley's national security credentials and statements as ''troubling.'' Ms. Coakley discussed economic issues in New Bedford, suggesting that Mr. Brown would continue Republican tax policies that cost jobs.
 Both are calling in bigger guns. President Obama recorded a television commercial for Ms. Coakley, and she plans to campaign Friday with former President Bill Clinton and Senator John Kerry. Mr. Brown, meanwhile, plans to campaign in Boston on Friday with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joe Kennedy, no relation to the well-known political family, at a Springfield library on Thursday. Few voters were present. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NANCY PALMIERI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (93%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (64%); HEALTH CARE (64%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (54%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (51%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (89%); TED KENNEDY (79%); MARTHA COAKLEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (54%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



411 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 465 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke Defends Fed's Oversight Role

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Facing renewed calls from Washington to limit its authority, the Federal Reserve on Thursday defended its role as one of Wall Street's chief watchdogs and said being able to monitor the health of banks was crucial to setting sound monetary policy. 
 In an 11-page report sent to the Senate banking committee, the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, argued in passionate terms that stripping the Fed of its powers would leave the financial system more vulnerable to collapse.
 Eliminating the central bank's supervisory role, the report said, would ''severely undermine the Federal Reserve's ability to obtain in a timely way and to evaluate the information it needs to conduct its central banking functions effectively.''
 In the aftermath of the financial crisis, the Fed has emerged as a target of much of the populist anger brewing across the country. Critics say the central bank did not do enough to respond to signs of a nascent crisis -- a sharp increase in home prices, for instance -- and that its actions may have contributed to the near-collapse of the financial system in 2008.
 Mr. Bernanke, who is awaiting confirmation by the Senate for a second term, said that while he did not believe the Fed should be responsible for monitoring the entire financial system, he did envision an expanded role for the agency. The report said the central bank should be able to look for ''systemic risk'' in a highly interdependent network of banks. And Mr. Bernanke said it was essential that the Fed be able to gauge the financial health of the institutions to which it might lend money.
 The report was released at a politically thorny time for the Fed. Lawmakers, skeptical of the central bank's ability to pre-empt future bubbles, are debating legislation that would consolidate regulators and take away some of the Fed's powers -- for instance, its role in helping consumers file complaints against banks. Perhaps anticipating some of the skepticism from Washington, the Fed's report devoted two pages to describing what actions the Fed had taken to fix what it called ''shortcomings.'' 
 The effort to preserve the Fed's authority received support from a former chairman of the Fed on Thursday. Paul A. Volcker, who led the central bank in the 1980s, said in a speech at the Economic Club of New York that the Fed should maintain a ''robust presence'' in financial regulation. 
 Speaking to the club nearly two years ago, Mr. Volcker seemed to question the Fed's legal authority as it took a series of extraordinary steps to rescue banks on the verge of failure. But on Thursday, Mr. Volcker rallied behind the institution he led for eight years. 
 ''This is no time to weaken the role of the Fed,'' Mr. Volcker said. ''We simply cannot afford inadvertently to undermine that sense of trust.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul A. Volcker, a former Fed chief, said Thursday that he now favored preserving the Federal Reserve's regulatory powers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN LEE/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); REAL ESTATE (71%); HOME PRICES (52%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



412 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Technology Helps Lead Shares Higher as Retailers Slip

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Stocks advanced for a second day as technology shares climbed before Intel reported earnings. In addition, business inventories increased more than forecast, overshadowing an unexpected drop in retail sales.
 The chip maker Intel rose 2.5 percent to close at $21.48. After the markets closed, the company reported fourth-quarter revenue and margin outlook that exceeded Wall Street's estimates, which sent its shares up farther in after-hours trading. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 29.78 points, or 0.3 percent, to 10,710.55. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index added 2.78 points, or 0.24 percent, to 1,148.46, the highest close since Oct. 1, 2008. The Nasdaq composite index rose 8.84 points, or 0.38 percent, to 2,316.74. 
 Oracle rose to an almost nine-year high as a Morgan Stanley report predicted a stock rally from acquisition of Sun Microsystems. Technology shares added 0.7 percent as a group and contributed the most to the gain in the S.& P. 500.
 Marriott International surged 5.6 percent after projecting higher revenue. Tyson Foods gained 5.5 percent after its stock was upgraded by Credit Suisse.
 ''There's optimism about earnings,'' said John Carey, a money manager at Pioneer Investment Management. ''We're at an inflection point in the economy where people are looking for sustainable signs of improvement. Technology is one of the brighter spots as it should be a beneficiary of higher capital spending.''
 JPMorgan Chase is scheduled to post results on Friday, and 66 companies in the S.& P. 500 will release earnings next week. After a nine-quarter slump in earnings, the combined profit for S.& P. 500 companies surged 62 percent during the fourth quarter, according to a Bloomberg survey. 
 Record-low interest rates in the United States and about $12 trillion committed by governments worldwide have helped spur a 70 percent rebound in the S.& P. 500 since March 9, 2009. 
 Shares of retailers in the S.& P. 500 lost 0.5 percent as a group on Thursday. Sales at retailers unexpectedly fell 0.3 percent in December after a bigger gain than previously estimated the previous month, highlighting the risk that the largest part of the economy will be slow to recover. Another report showed jobless claims climbed more than forecast last week.
 Separately, the Commerce Department reported that business inventories rose more than forecast in November as companies tried to keep up with a jump in sales. The 0.4 percent increase in stockpiles matched the previous month's gain, indicating the first back-to-back increase in more than a year.
 ''The two months in a row of gains follow 13 straight months of declines and remains the key basis and starting point for the economic recovery theme,'' Peter Boockvar, an equity strategist at Miller Tabak & Company in New York, wrote in a note.
 Crude oil fell for a fourth day as retail sales unexpectedly weakened and jobless claims rose, indicating that the economy would be slow to recover.
 ''It's getting more and more difficult to maintain prices at around $80, though last week it seemed like it was going to be the floor,'' said Michael Fitzpatrick, vice president for energy at MF Global in New York. Prices are likely to trade in a $70 to $80 range without ''incontrovertible signs that the economy is improving.''
 LaBranche & Company shares surged 42 percent to $3.95 after the company agreed to sell its business that facilitates trades at the New York Stock Exchange to Barclays for $25 million.
 LaBranche plans to quadruple its authorized share buyback to $100 million after the sale and buy all its debt including senior notes totaling $189.3 million. The sale will free up $76 million in capital, the company said.
 Health care stocks also rose after the White House and labor leaders reached an agreement to resolve a dispute over taxing health benefits, said Gerry Shea, the chief health care negotiator for the A.F.L.-C.I.O. A deal would overcome one of the biggest hurdles to passing health care legislation. The agreement, which must be approved by Congressional Democrats, raises the threshold at which the tax would be applied to the most expensive employer-provided plans, Mr. Shea said.
 The drug maker Merck had the biggest gain on the Dow, rising 2.7 percent to $39.99. Pfizer added 0.9 percent to $19.38.
 The Treasury's 10-year note rose 13/32, to 97 1/32. The yield fell to 3.74 percent, from 3.79 percent late Wednesday.
 Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 30-year bonds:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly. (Source: The Bond Buyer)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); INVENTORIES (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (95%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (69%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (66%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (56%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (55%); TYSON FOODS INC (55%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT SGR SPA (55%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT U S (55%); PIONEER INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT LTD (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (95%); MAR (NYSE) (69%); JPM (NYSE) (66%); JPM (LSE) (66%); 8634 (TSE) (66%); CSGN (SWX) (55%); CS (NYSE) (55%); TSN (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (69%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (69%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (66%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (66%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (66%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (56%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (55%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (55%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (55%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (55%); SIC6722 MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES, OPEN-END (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



413 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Toppled In Ukraine But Nearing A Comeback

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

DATELINE: DNEPRODZERZHINSK, Ukraine 

 BODY:
Viktor F. Yanukovich was swept aside five years ago in the Orange Revolution, derided as a barrel-chested party boss and Kremlin stooge whose career was over as Ukraine embraced the West.
 Now, though, Mr. Yanukovich is close to exacting his revenge, leading in opinion polls in advance of a presidential election on Sunday and drawing large crowds like the one that gathered here this week in a light snowfall in this smokestack region in the southeast.
 Ukraine, it seems, is in the throes of a revolt against the revolution.
 ''Together, we have suffered through this Orange nightmare,'' Mr. Yanukovich said at a rally here. ''Let us consign this history to the black pages of our lives.'' 
 Mr. Yanukovich, a former prime minister, has capitalized on the nation's deep disillusionment with a limp economy and the Orange leaders, who promised to modernize the country and move it away from Moscow. Instead, they have been consumed with infighting that has paralyzed the government.
 Under the tutelage of an American political consultant with ties to Senator John McCain, Mr. Yanukovich has put the Orange Revolution on trial in recent weeks. He has echoed another American politician, Ronald Reagan, by asking Ukrainians whether they feel better off now than they did five years ago.
 ''Do we want to keep living as we have lived these five years?'' he asked. ''When you know the answer to that, then you will know how to vote.''
 The Orange Revolution shook the former Soviet Union, ushering in a pro-Western government in Ukraine that seemingly stood as a model for the many post-Soviet states seeking to emerge from authoritarianism.
 The movement broke out after protesters asserted that Mr. Yanukovich had triumphed in the 2004 presidential election over Viktor A. Yushchenko only because of widespread fraud. A new election was held, which Mr. Yushchenko won. He had already garnered worldwide attention when he was poisoned by dioxin during the campaign, a crime never solved.
 In recent weeks, polls have shown Mr. Yanukovich leading by 10 or 15 percentage points, but the race remains volatile. He is likely to be forced into a runoff next month against the other front-runner, Prime Minister Yulia V. Tymoshenko, an Orange leader known for her impassioned speeches and peasant braid.
 If Mr. Yanukovich does become president, it will be a victory for the Kremlin, which has worked assiduously in recent years to discredit the Orange movement and ensure against a pro-Western realignment in its backyard.
 But perhaps not the total victory the Kremlin may hope for. Since his defeat five years ago, Mr. Yanukovich has sought to avoid being pigeonholed as the Kremlin's candidate. Sounding somewhat like an Orange politician, he said he supported Ukraine's integration with Europe, as well as a robust, multiparty democracy at home.
 But Mr. Yanukovich said he would repair relations with Russia, which has been especially angered by President Yushchenko's attempt to seek NATO membership.
 ''We do not want to join any military bloc,'' Mr. Yanukovich said an interview, explicitly rejecting NATO membership.
 Speaking of Russia, he said: ''Relations should be natural, as they are between the Ukrainian people and the Russian people. They must be friendly, they must be pragmatic, they must be strategic.''
 The Kremlin, in fact, is trying to maintain ties with both front-runners, indicating that tensions may be soothed however the election turns out. Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putin of Russia has had warm words recently for Ms. Tymoshenko, and she has reciprocated.
 Left behind has been President Yushchenko, an Orange leader and Kremlin foe who, rightly or wrongly, has been widely blamed for the economic troubles. He is seeking re-election, but his favorability ratings are in the single digits.
 Lately, he seems mostly intent on destroying the candidacy of Ms. Tymoshenko, his former ally, as if he would rather Mr. Yanukovich win than she.
 Mr. Yanukovich began his comeback in 2006, when relations between President Yushchenko and Ms. Tymoshenko collapsed, and Mr. Yushchenko named Mr. Yanukovich as prime minister. Mr. Yanukovich then lost the job to Ms. Tymoshenko after parliamentary elections in 2007.
 Politically, Ukraine remains divided along geographic lines, with Mr. Yanukovich's base in the Russian-speaking east and south. It is unclear whether he will be able to broaden his appeal to areas where the Ukrainian language dominates.
 But Orange voters are disenchanted, and some may not show up at the polls.
 Ms. Tymoshenko has been running a populist campaign, trying to paint Mr. Yanukovich as a front man for the country's business elite.
 ''The oligarchs want a weak puppet leader who can be easily managed and ruled,'' she said.
 But political experts here said she faced a challenge overcoming the Orange backlash.
 ''There is this element of positive experience and timing,'' said Andrei Yermolayev, director of the Sofia Center for Social Research in Kiev. ''There is a certain stereotype that the years when Yanukovich was prime minister were years of success, and the years when Tymoshenko was prime minister were years of conflict and problems.''
 Mr. Yanukovich has been assisted by Paul J. Manafort, an American political consultant who has been advising him since 2005. Mr. Manafort's business partner is Rick Davis, who managed Senator McCain's 2008 presidential campaign, though Mr. Davis has no role here. (And Mr. Manafort said he did no work for Mr. McCain.)
 Mr. Manafort declined to discuss in detail his relationship with Mr. Yanukovich, but he acknowledged that he was pursuing a classic anti-incumbent strategy.
 ''Despite the great expectations from the Orange campaign promises of five years ago, the world and the people of Ukraine see that Tymoshenko has failed,'' Mr. Manafort said.
 He is not the only American consultant involved in Ukraine. The former firm of David Axelrod, President Obama's senior adviser, is working for Prime Minister Tymoshenko. President Yushchenko is advised by the firm of Mark J. Penn, the strategist for the Clintons.
 Mr. Manafort's influence was apparent on Mr. Yanukovich's visit this week in Dneprodzerzhinsk. His old style tended toward rambling speeches that seemed more suited for a Politburo meeting than a campaign rally. But throughout his day, he spoke in short, crisp sentences that rarely strayed from his theme of the Orange Revolution's failures.
 It seemed, however, that Mr. Yanukovich's advance team could have used a strategy session. This city is named for Feliks Dzerzhinsky, founder of the Soviet secret police, and the campaign put Mr. Yanukovich right in front of a statue of Mr. Dzerzhinsky himself.
 Ms. Tymoshenko is a native of this region, but it is now a Yanukovich stronghold. And there were people in the crowds who were once Orange backers.
 ''I voted for Yushchenko,'' said Marina Sazonova, 44, a lawyer. ''I was sitting home, breastfeeding my baby, watching with tears in my eyes our people getting up off their knees. There was this impression that everybody was united.
 ''People hoped that it would make their lives better,'' she continued. ''But nothing of the kind happened.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Hundreds gathered Tuesday at a rally in Dneprodzerzhinsk, Ukraine, for Viktor F. Yanukovich, at left, who lost power during the Orange Revolution. He is leading in polls for Sunday's election.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSEPH SYWENKYJ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%)

PERSON: VIKTOR YUSHCHENKO (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); YULIA TYMOSHENKO (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%) UKRAINE (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



414 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: The Underlying Tragedy

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
On Oct. 17, 1989, a major earthquake with a magnitude of 7.0 struck the Bay Area in Northern California. Sixty-three people were killed. This week, a major earthquake, also measuring a magnitude of 7.0, struck near Port-au-Prince, Haiti. The Red Cross estimates that between 45,000 and 50,000 people have died.
 This is not a natural disaster story. This is a poverty story. It's a story about poorly constructed buildings, bad infrastructure and terrible public services. On Thursday, President Obama told the people of Haiti: ''You will not be forsaken; you will not be forgotten.'' If he is going to remain faithful to that vow then he is going to have to use this tragedy as an occasion to rethink our approach to global poverty. He's going to have to acknowledge a few difficult truths. 
 The first of those truths is that we don't know how to use aid to reduce poverty. Over the past few decades, the world has spent trillions of dollars to generate growth in the developing world. The countries that have not received much aid, like China, have seen tremendous growth and tremendous poverty reductions. The countries that have received aid, like Haiti, have not.
 In the recent anthology ''What Works in Development?,'' a group of economists try to sort out what we've learned. The picture is grim. There are no policy levers that consistently correlate to increased growth. There is nearly zero correlation between how a developing economy does one decade and how it does the next. There is no consistently proven way to reduce corruption. Even improving governing institutions doesn't seem to produce the expected results.
 The chastened tone of these essays is captured by the economist Abhijit Banerjee: ''It is not clear to us that the best way to get growth is to do growth policy of any form. Perhaps making growth happen is ultimately beyond our control.''
 The second hard truth is that micro-aid is vital but insufficient. Given the failures of macrodevelopment, aid organizations often focus on microprojects. More than 10,000 organizations perform missions of this sort in Haiti. By some estimates, Haiti has more nongovernmental organizations per capita than any other place on earth. They are doing the Lord's work, especially these days, but even a blizzard of these efforts does not seem to add up to comprehensive change.
 Third, it is time to put the thorny issue of culture at the center of efforts to tackle global poverty. Why is Haiti so poor? Well, it has a history of oppression, slavery and colonialism. But so does Barbados, and Barbados is doing pretty well. Haiti has endured ruthless dictators, corruption and foreign invasions. But so has the Dominican Republic, and the D.R. is in much better shape. Haiti and the Dominican Republic share the same island and the same basic environment, yet the border between the two societies offers one of the starkest contrasts on earth -- with trees and progress on one side, and deforestation and poverty and early death on the other.
 As Lawrence E. Harrison explained in his book ''The Central Liberal Truth,'' Haiti, like most of the world's poorest nations, suffers from a complex web of progress-resistant cultural influences. There is the influence of the voodoo religion, which spreads the message that life is capricious and planning futile. There are high levels of social mistrust. Responsibility is often not internalized. Child-rearing practices often involve neglect in the early years and harsh retribution when kids hit 9 or 10.
 We're all supposed to politely respect each other's cultures. But some cultures are more progress-resistant than others, and a horrible tragedy was just exacerbated by one of them.
 Fourth, it's time to promote locally led paternalism. In this country, we first tried to tackle poverty by throwing money at it, just as we did abroad. Then we tried microcommunity efforts, just as we did abroad. But the programs that really work involve intrusive paternalism.
 These programs, like the Harlem Children's Zone and the No Excuses schools, are led by people who figure they don't understand all the factors that have contributed to poverty, but they don't care. They are going to replace parts of the local culture with a highly demanding, highly intensive culture of achievement -- involving everything from new child-rearing practices to stricter schools to better job performance.
 It's time to take that approach abroad, too. It's time to find self-confident local leaders who will create No Excuses countercultures in places like Haiti, surrounding people -- maybe just in a neighborhood or a school -- with middle-class assumptions, an achievement ethos and tough, measurable demands.
 The late political scientist Samuel P. Huntington used to acknowledge that cultural change is hard, but cultures do change after major traumas. This earthquake is certainly a trauma. The only question is whether the outside world continues with the same old, same old. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (88%); DISASTER RELIEF (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); EARTH (79%) HAITI (92%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BARBADOS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



415 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Promoting Clean Energy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Where the Action Is on Climate'' (editorial, Jan. 4): 
 Sophisticated companies have learned that through more efficient use of fossil fuels they are reducing their costs as well as helping the environment. Reducing costs yields higher productivity, which results in greater competitiveness. In the global trade arena, competitiveness is everything.
 Seeking a dramatically reduced carbon economy will also accelerate the development of our clean-energy technology sector, which will be able to respond to overseas economic opportunities, thereby reducing our balance-of-trade concerns. 
 The action your editorial calls for is a ''twofer'' -- environmental advancement and economic benefits.
 James J. Florio Metuchen, N.J., Jan. 4, 2010
 The writer is a former governor of New Jersey and teaches environmental and energy policy at the E. J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (86%); WRITERS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); TRADE DISPUTES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



416 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 2182 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times

BYLINE: By ANNE MANCUSO

 BODY:
AROUND TOWN
 Museums and Sites
 AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY Through Aug. 15, ''Traveling the Silk Road: Ancient Pathway to the Modern World''; in conjunction with the exhibition, Saturday and Sunday, noon to 5 p.m., ''Voices of the Silk Road,'' with performances by musicians from Ukraine, Tibet, Uzbekistan, the Krygyz Republic and other regions. Through May 31, ''The Butterfly Conservatory: Tropical Butterflies Alive in Winter,'' featuring hundreds of live specimens. In the Imax theater, playing every hour on the half-hour, from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., ''Mysteries of the Great Lakes,'' exploring their history and scenery. Timed tickets to ''The Butterfly Conservatory,'' as well as tickets to Imax films, include museum admission: $24; $18 for students and 60+; $14 for ages 2 to 12; $12 for members and $7.50 for their children. 
Suggested general admission: $16; $12 for students and 60+; $9 for 2 to 12. Supersaver tickets, including museum and Rose Center admission, the Hayden Planetarium space show (''Journey to the Stars'') and all special exhibitions: $32; $24.50 for students and 60+; $20 for 2 to 12 (adult members, $16; 2 to 12, $11.50). Hours: daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Central Park West and 79th Street , (212) 769-5200, amnh.org.20100114
 HISTORIC RICHMOND TOWN Saturday at 7:30 and 9 p.m., a performance by the jug band Wahoo Skiffle Crazies; part of the Tavern Concert Series; $15; $12 for members; reservations required: (718) 351-1611, Ext. 281. Open Wednesdays through Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m.; guided tours, Wednesdays through Fridays at 2:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays at 2 and 3:30 p.m. 441 Clarke Avenue, Richmond Town, Staten Island , historicrichmondtown.org; $5; $4 for 65+; $3.50 for students and children 5 to 17; free for members and children under 5.20100114
 NEW-YORK HISTORICAL SOCIETY Sunday at 11:30 a.m., ''Murder at the Historical,'' an interactive hunt through the Society's galleries and exhibitions in search of clues to solve a crime based on an actual event; $35; $32 for educators and 65+; $30 for college students; $23 for members. On view through March 25: ''Lincoln and New York''; ''F. D. R.'s Brain Trust and the Beginning of the New Deal,'' an exhibition that focuses on five people who played key roles during Roosevelt's administration: Raymond Moley, Rexford Tugwell and Adolphe Berle, who were part of the ''brain trust,'' and Frances Perkins and Harry Hopkins, who were Cabinet members; and ''John Brown: The Abolitionist and His Legacy,'' which commemorates the 150th anniversary of Brown's raid on a federal arsenal at Harpers Ferry, Va. (Oct. 16, 1859). Hours: Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Fridays); Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street , (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org; $12; $9 for educators and 65+; $7 for students; pay what you wish from 6 to 8 p.m. on Fridays; free at all times for members and children under 12.20100114
 NEW YORK TRANSIT MUSEUM Through Monday, the eighth annual Grand Central Holiday Train Show, with cars representing the Long Island Rail Road and Metro North, as well as the New York City subway system. Friday and Monday, 8 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Beginning Tuesday, the Gallery Annex will be closed for renovations and will reopen in March. Gallery Annex, Grand Central Terminal, near the Stationmaster's Office , (212) 878-0106, mta.info/mta/museum; free.20100114
 Gardens
 WAVE HILL Saturday at 1 p.m. and Sunday at 2 p.m., Conservatory walks. Saturday and Sunday, 1 to 4 p.m., Family Art Project: ''Bits of Cloth and Lots of Freedom,'' a workshop in making a fabric piece inspired by the life of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Saturday and Tuesday, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m., a workshop in spinning and knitting wool; reservations required: (718) 549-3200, Ext. 305. Grounds open Tuesdays through Sundays, 9 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx , (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org; grounds admission: $8; $4 for students and 65+; $2 for children 6 and older; free for members and under 6; free all day on Tuesdays through March and on Saturday mornings from 9 a.m. to noon. On-site parking, $8; free off-site parking with free shuttle service to the garden.20100114
 Events
 BANANAGRAMS IN THE BASEMENT Saturday at 3 p.m., matches of this anagram game, played like Scrabble, but without the board. Open to all ages. Reservations requested. Word, Franklin and Milton Streets, Greenpoint, Brooklyn , (718) 383-0096, wordbrooklyn.com; free.20100114
 FILM SCREENING AND DISCUSSION Tuesday at 7 p.m., an excerpt from ''AbUSed -- The Postville Raid,'' a documentary in progress by Luis Argueta about a raid in 2008 by immigration agents at an Iowa meat-packing plant that employed illegal immigrants. It will be followed by a discussion on immigration policy, enforcement and reform, featuring Mr. Argueta as well as lawyers and members of immigration advocacy groups. Sponsored by the New York Immigration Coalition and the Culture Project. Judson Memorial Church, 55 Washington Square South, Greenwich Village , (212) 627-2227, thenyic.org; donation, $20.20100114
 ROBERT FROST'S ANNUAL CHRISTMAS CARDS Through Jan. 30, an exhibition of holiday chapbooks featuring poetry by Frost. Open Tuesday through Friday, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturday, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Poets House, 10 River Terrace, at Warren Street, Battery Park City, Lower Manhattan , (212) 431-7920, poetshouse.org; free.20100114
 HARLEM LIBRARY CINEMA SERIES, a free screening series, continues Tuesday at 6:15 p.m. with ''Banished,'' a 2006 documentary by Marco Williams about the forced expulsion of black residents from three communities -- Pierce City, Mo.; Harrison, Ark.; and Forsyth County, Ga. -- after the Civil War. A discussion with Mr. Williams and others will follow. The series is sponsored by the New York Public Library and the National Black Programming Consortium. 115th Street Branch, 203 West 115th Street, Harlem , (212) 666-9393, blackpublicmedia.org/blackstream.20100114
 'HOLLYWOOD IN THE HEIGHTS' Wednesday at 7 p.m., the screening of a film montage of clips featuring Brooklyn Heights, followed by a discussion of filmmaking in the area with the director Peter Hedges (''What's Eating Gilbert Grape,'' 1993), who will also introduce the screening. Part of a series of events celebrating the 100th anniversary of the Brooklyn Heights Association, which is also sponsoring the events. St. Francis College Auditorium, 180 Remsen Street , Brooklyn Heights, (718) 858-9193, thebha.org; free, but reservations are necessary: rsvp@austeragency.com.20100114
 MUSEUM OF JEWISH HERITAGE Sunday at 2 p.m., ''The Road That Heals the Splintered Soul,'' a performance of music from Jewish culture and the African diaspora, performed by the ensemble the Afro-Semitic Experience. 36 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan , (646) 437-4202, mjhnyc.org; $15; $12 for children, students and 65+; $10 for members.20100114
 NEW YORK CITY RECORD & CD SHOW, also featuring other memorabilia, like T-shirts and posters. Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m. Holiday Inn, 440 West 57th Street, Clinton , (973) 209-6067, showsandexpos.com/rsnyc.htm; $6; preview, 8 to 10 a.m., $25.20100114
 WILDERNESS SURVIVAL: PART 2 Sunday at 1 p.m., a workshop led by the Urban Park Rangers in collecting water, the second of four focusing on wilderness survival; the first covered shelter, and the last two will feature fire and food; Forest Park Visitors Center, Woodhaven Boulevard and Forest Park Drive, Queens , (718) 846-2731, nyc.gov/parks/rangers; free.20100114
 Spoken Word
 92ND STREET Y Sunday at 11 a.m., ''Books and Bagels,'' a discussion with the writers Joyce Carol Oates and Elaine Showalter, with food; $34; $10 for those 35 and younger. Thursday at 8 p.m., an evening with Sam Shepard, who will read from his book ''Day Out of Days,'' and Patti Smith, who will read from her memoir ''Just Kids''; $27; $10 for those 35 and younger. 1395 Lexington Avenue , (212) 415-5500, 92y.org.20100114
 HISTORY OF STATEN ISLAND, PART 2 Tuesday at 7 p.m., a discussion about environmental issues on Staten Island, with a look at its museums and parks and other outdoor spaces. Part of a series running through Feb. 2. Staten Island Museum, Building H, Snug Harbor Cultural Center, 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston , (718) 727-1135; $12; $8 for members.20100114
 INTELLIGENCE SQUARED US Tuesday at 6:45 p.m., ''California Is the First Failed State,'' a debate on California's financial problems. Those arguing in favor of the proposition are Andreas Kluth, a writer for The Economist; Robert Sargent Shriver III, a lawyer and member of the Santa Monica City Council; and Sharon Waxman of TheWrap.com. Those arguing against it are Gray Davis, California governor from 1999 to 2003; Van Jones, a lawyer and environmental advocate; and Lawrence O'Donnell Jr., a writer and political analyst for MSNBC. The debate is the first in a spring series; a reception takes place at 5:45 p.m. Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, 566 LaGuardia Place, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village , (212) 303-4322, intelligencesquaredus.org; $35; $45 includes the reception.20100114
 NATIONAL JAZZ MUSEUM IN HARLEM Tuesday at 7 p.m., ''Rhythm, Rhythm: Jazz and the World of Lar Lubovitch,'' a discussion about jazz and dance with the choreographer Lar Lubovitch and others, including Billy Taylor, the pianist and composer. The evening features a screening of excerpts from performances by Mr. Lubovitch's dance company. Visitors Center, Suite 2C, 104 East 126th Street , (212) 348-8300, jazzmuseuminharlem.org; free.20100114
 Walking Tours
 BIG ONION WALKING TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''The Multi-Ethnic Eating Tour,'' with sampling of snacks from the Lower East Side, Chinatown and Little Italy, meeting on the southeast corner of Essex and Delancey Streets, Lower East Side; $20; $17 for students and 63+. Monday at 1 p.m., ''Martin Luther King Jr. Day in Historic Harlem,'' with stops at sites frequented by him, as well as places associated with Zora Neale Hurston and Langston Hughes, meeting on the northwest corner of 135th Street and Lenox Avenue; $15; $12 for students and 63+. (212) 439-1090, bigonion.com.20100114
 CHELSEA ART GALLERY TOUR Saturday at 1 and 3:45 p.m., a tour of seven contemporary art galleries, led by Rafael Risemberg, meeting at 526 West 26th Street. (212) 946-1548, nygallerytours.com; $20.20100114
 GARMENT CENTER WALKING TOUR Monday at 10 a.m., meeting on the northwest corner of Broadway and 39th Street. Sponsored by Mike's NYC Tours. (212) 370-4214, mikesnyctours.com; $20.20100114
 HARLEM GANGSTER TOUR Sunday at 2 p.m., featuring the legends of Harlem's underworld, meeting on the northeast corner of Malcolm X Boulevard and 116th Street. Led by George Lee Miles. (212) 862-9561; $25.20100114
 I'LL TAKE MANHATTAN TOURS Sunday at 1 p.m., ''Mansions, Millions and Magnificence'' passes the clubs, hotels and residences along Fifth Avenue, meeting at the General Sherman Statue, 59th Street and Fifth Avenue. (732) 270-5559; $15.20100114
 METRO TOUR SERVICE Friday through Sunday at 2 p.m., a tour in Brooklyn, with stops in Brooklyn Heights, Fort Greene and Clinton Hill, meeting in front of the New York Marriott, at Adams and Tillary Streets, downtown Brooklyn. Monday at 2 p.m., a tour of Harlem sites visited by the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., meeting in front of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, 515 Malcolm X Boulevard, at 135th Street, Hamilton Heights. Reservations are required: (718) 789-0430. Each, $25.20100114
 MUNICIPAL ART SOCIETY Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Edith Wharton's New York'' visits the neighborhoods of Madison Square and Gramercy Park, which figure prominently in Wharton's life and writing, meeting on the northwest corner of Fifth Avenue and 23rd Street. (212) 935-2075, mas.org/tours; $15; $10 for members.20100114
 NYC DISCOVERY TOURS Saturday and Sunday at 2 p.m., ''Martin Luther King Weekend in Harlem,'' with stops at the Apollo Theater, the Lenox Lounge and other locations. Reservations and meeting place: (212) 465-3331. $16.20100114
 UNION SQUARE: CROSSROADS OF NEW YORK Saturday at 2 p.m., a tour focusing on the political history of the area, meeting by the statue of Lincoln near the 16th Street transverse, Union Square, Manhattan. Sponsored by the Union Square Partnership; (212) 517-1826, unionsquarenyc.org; free.20100114
 Recreation
 NYRR THURSDAY NIGHT AT THE RACES 2010ANNE MANCUSO 4107 NYRR THURSDAY NIGHT AT THE RACES 2010 The second of four indoor track races for those 19 and older, with lengths from 800 meters to two miles. Registration, 6:15 to 7 p.m.; races begin at 7 p.m. Sponsored by the New York Road Runners. New Balance Track and Field Center at the Armory, 216 Fort Washington Avenue, at 168th Street, Washington Heights , (212) 860-4455, nyrr.org; $15, cash only. ANNE MANCUSO 20100114
 Information about events to be considered for inclusion in Spare Times can be sent to weekend@nytimes.com

CORRECTION-DATE: January 16, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A Spare Times entry on Friday about a screening of an excerpt from the documentary ''AbUSed -- The Postville Raid'' at Judson Memorial Church in Greenwich Village and a post-screening discussion misstated the suggested donation. It is $10, not $20.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); HISTORY (90%); EXHIBITIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); FILM (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); MUSIC (71%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (92%); UZBEKISTAN (92%); UKRAINE (88%); CHINA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



417 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Without A Clue

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
The official Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission -- the group that aims to hold a modern version of the Pecora hearings of the 1930s, whose investigations set the stage for New Deal bank regulation -- began taking testimony on Wednesday. In its first panel, the commission grilled four major financial-industry honchos. What did we learn?
 Well, if you were hoping for a Perry Mason moment -- a scene in which the witness blurts out: ''Yes! I admit it! I did it! And I'm glad!'' -- the hearing was disappointing. What you got, instead, was witnesses blurting out: ''Yes! I admit it! I'm clueless!'' 
 O.K., not in so many words. But the bankers' testimony showed a stunning failure, even now, to grasp the nature and extent of the current crisis. And that's important: It tells us that as Congress and the administration try to reform the financial system, they should ignore advice coming from the supposed wise men of Wall Street, who have no wisdom to offer.
 Consider what has happened so far: The U.S. economy is still grappling with the consequences of the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression; trillions of dollars of potential income have been lost; the lives of millions have been damaged, in some cases irreparably, by mass unemployment; millions more have seen their savings wiped out; hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, will lose essential health care because of the combination of job losses and draconian cutbacks by cash-strapped state governments. 
 And this disaster was entirely self-inflicted. This isn't like the stagflation of the 1970s, which had a lot to do with soaring oil prices, which were, in turn, the result of political instability in the Middle East. This time we're in trouble entirely thanks to the dysfunctional nature of our own financial system. Everyone understands this -- everyone, it seems, except the financiers themselves.
 There were two moments in Wednesday's hearing that stood out. One was when Jamie Dimon of JPMorgan Chase declared that a financial crisis is something that ''happens every five to seven years. We shouldn't be surprised.'' In short, stuff happens, and that's just part of life.
 But the truth is that the United States managed to avoid major financial crises for half a century after the Pecora hearings were held and Congress enacted major banking reforms. It was only after we forgot those lessons, and dismantled effective regulation, that our financial system went back to being dangerously unstable. 
 As an aside, it was also startling to hear Mr. Dimon admit that his bank never even considered the possibility of a large decline in home prices, despite widespread warnings that we were in the midst of a monstrous housing bubble.
 Still, Mr. Dimon's cluelessness paled beside that of Goldman Sachs's Lloyd Blankfein, who compared the financial crisis to a hurricane nobody could have predicted. Phil Angelides, the commission's chairman, was not amused: The financial crisis, he declared, wasn't an act of God; it resulted from ''acts of men and women.''
 Was Mr. Blankfein just inarticulate? No. He used the same metaphor in his prepared testimony in which he urged Congress not to push too hard for financial reform: ''We should resist a response ... that is solely designed around protecting us from the 100-year storm.'' So this giant financial crisis was just a rare accident, a freak of nature, and we shouldn't overreact.
 But there was nothing accidental about the crisis. From the late 1970s on, the American financial system, freed by deregulation and a political climate in which greed was presumed to be good, spun ever further out of control. There were ever-greater rewards -- bonuses beyond the dreams of avarice -- for bankers who could generate big short-term profits. And the way to raise those profits was to pile up ever more debt, both by pushing loans on the public and by taking on ever-higher leverage within the financial industry.
 Sooner or later, this runaway system was bound to crash. And if we don't make fundamental changes, it will happen all over again.
 Do the bankers really not understand what happened, or are they just talking their self-interest? No matter. As I said, the important thing looking forward is to stop listening to financiers about financial reform. 
 Wall Street executives will tell you that the financial-reform bill the House passed last month would cripple the economy with overregulation (it's actually quite mild). They'll insist that the tax on bank debt just proposed by the Obama administration is a crude concession to foolish populism. They'll warn that action to tax or otherwise rein in financial-industry compensation is destructive and unjustified.
 But what do they know? The answer, as far as I can tell, is: not much. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TESTIMONY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); WITNESSES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (71%); HOME PRICES (68%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



418 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Financial Difficulties Strain California's Foster Care System

BYLINE: By GERRY SHIH

 BODY:
In the summer of 2008, a 13-year-old boy from San Francisco emerged from a government van and scanned his new surroundings. Five handsome houses, a small school and an old gymnasium stood on 11 rural acres in the Central Valley that bordered an almond orchard. 
 Beyond the last house was a soothing panorama of unbounded farmland, interrupted only by old Highway 99 and the big rigs that rumbled across the horizon.
For more than two decades, this has been the setting that greeted more than 2,400 wards of the state as they arrive at the Excell Center ranch, a group home for foster boys with histories of violence or mental disabilities. It is situated just outside Turlock, 40 miles southeast of Stockton. 
 That the Excell Center, which now houses 52 youths from ages 10 to 18, has survived the die-off of foster homes is partly a matter of real-estate economics: it costs less to house people in the heart of the Central Valley than it does in urban areas, and it costs less to pay workers to take care of them. 
 The other underlying economic reality, recently confirmed by a panel of federal judges, is that for 18 years, the state's reimbursement for foster care has fallen woefully short of its minimum goals. The combination of the two means foster care in the Bay Area has been hit harder than anywhere else in the state.
 In a tale all too familiar in cash-strapped California, the foster care system has been coming apart from inadequate state financing for at least 20 years, officials at the county level say. In the past two months, a succession of key court decisions in favor of care providers lifted hopes that the judicial rulings might finally turn things around, but the lawsuits have simultaneously shed light on a system that has been cut to the bone.
 Jill Duerr Berrick, a professor in the School of Social Welfare at the University of California, Berkeley, said that sooner or later the children would suffer.
 ''The supply and demand problem is so pressing,'' Professor Berrick said, ''that a child services agency is not always capable of finding the type of care that a child needs. 
 ''The decline is going to continue for a while, but at some point state and county officials are going to have ask whether these shifts in care-giving settings are in the child's best interests.'' 
 While the teenagers in need still have places to go, these places are farther from their homes and offer fewer services.
 From West Oakland to East Los Angeles to townships in the shadow of the Sierras, the neglected or abused boys are taken hundreds of miles to the Excell Center. Statewide, there are now 1,402 homes, down from 1,759 five years ago. During the trial of the federal lawsuit filed on behalf of group homes last year, the state said it paid the facilities 76 percent of their costs. 
 For foster parents, the math is even more skewed. Regina Deihl, a Half Moon Bay foster parent who filed a similar lawsuit against the state on behalf of individual foster parents, said that with compensation for foster parents covering only 68 percent of the actual cost, there had been nearly a 50 percent drop in the number of licensed foster parents in Santa Clara and San Mateo counties since 1991.
 ''Kids are being outsourced to the Central Valley,'' Ms. Deihl said.
 In Southern California more than 90 percent of foster care placements were in the child's home county, according to data compiled for the state by the University of California, Berkeley.
 It is different in the north. In San Mateo County, the figure was 23.8 percent; in San Francisco it was 36 percent -- not quite 50 of the city's 130 placements. The figures for Contra Costa and Santa Clara Counties were 59.2 percent and 69.7 percent, respectively.
 Many officials and experts say the group home's demise is a sign that the state is shifting toward a healthier child-welfare philosophy that favors placement with relatives, whenever possible. State data show that 4,116 children are in group homes, down from a high of more than 6,900 in 2004.
 Others, however, worry that the swift disappearance of local providers results in faraway or inappropriate placements that hamper efforts to rehabilitate children with their families. These cases also add to the strains on California's social workers, who already juggle caseloads twice the recommended limit, said Frank J. Mecca, director of the County Welfare Directors Association of California.
 Local social-service officials disagree that distant placement is always a problem. Trent Rhorer, San Francisco's head of human services, said his county had no difficulty finding nearby placements for children. Asked about the 64 percent of youths placed out of the city, Mr. Rhorer suggested that the numbers failed to account for San Francisco's small size. 
 ''You have to remember this is a county of seven by seven miles,'' he said, ''so Daly City or Oakland, just across the bridge, are considered 'out-of-county.' ''
 Across that bridge, Tara Beckman, the deputy director of Alameda County's Court Appointed Special Advocates Program, does not have enough space for wards from her own county. Ms. Beckman said the youths who needed more special services were being placed in homes in other parts of the state.
 ''There just aren't the placements in Alameda to put them,'' she said. Alameda's in-county placement rate is 45.6 percent.
 Kathy Marsh, a placement supervisor for Contra Costa County, said she had sent children to Redding, Nevada City and Victorville. Those placements severely test her department, as case workers, who are supposed to visit their assigned children once a month, often cut their visits short because they are so busy. 
 To help one other, some who are visiting distant facilities drop in on children assigned to a co-worker, to save the other person a trip.
 ''The mileage they put on is just ridiculous,'' Ms. Marsh said. But with several homes closing in the county every year, she added, it has not been a matter of choice.
 ''We just don't have programs in-county to meet those needs anymore,'' she said. 
 The lack of money affects not just where the children live, but also how much money is spent on clothes and food, and how well workers in those group homes are compensated. 
 According to the California Alliance of Child and Family Services, which filed the suit on behalf of group homes, the California Necessities Index, a measure of price inflation for goods like food and clothes, has risen by 76 percent since 1990, the last time federal compensation guidelines were drawn. The state has raised its payments by 33 percent in the past 20 years. 
 The rates set in 1990 also assumed an hourly wage of $5.93 for entry-level child-care workers, 40 percent above the minimum wage of $4.25. The equivalent wage that is supported by state payments today is 22 cents above the state minimum wage of $8 an hour.
 In November, a federal judge blocked the state's plan to save $19 million by further cutting payments to group homes by 10 percent, which would have supported an entry-level wage below the state minimum. 
 ''I know the state is in serious straits,'' said Judge Marilyn H. Patel of Federal District Court, who expressed concern of ''injury beyond repair'' to children in group homes. ''We're talking about children one step away from the criminal justice system.'' 
 The United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit ruled in December that the California Department of Social Services was in violation of a federal law because it failed to fully compensate group homes.
 Despite its location 110 miles from San Francisco, the Excell Center near Turlock has roots in the Bay Area. Its parent organization, Aspiranet, operated 10 homes with 64 beds in San Mateo County in the 1980s. But it struggled to stay afloat, so Vernon M. Brown, Aspiranet's director, moved much of the operation to the Central Valley.
 The company thrived. It now employs more than 700 people statewide. Fifty-two boys are at the campus near Turlock.
 ''You're paying someone $14 an hour in there and $9 an hour out here,'' said Christopher Essary, who runs the Turlock program. ''That's the difference.''
 As Mr. Essary spoke last month in the living room of one of the tidy homes, the boy from San Francisco, now a slight 15-year-old, ate corn dogs in the kitchen.
 Eighteen months ago, when social workers picked the boy up, he left behind a life of clashes in his grandmother's Inner Richmond home, but also carefree moments spent with friends at the Westfield Mall or the Shiekh Shoes store downtown. The day he arrived at his new home, he said, his first thought was ''AWOL-ing'' -- running away.
 He has not acted on the impulse. 
 ''I got used to it,'' the boy said with a shrug. ''We had some fun trips, like to Disneyland.''
 His grandmother has never visited. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Foster care residents at the Excell Center ranch, a group home for foster boys with histories of violence or mental disabilities. The center, in the Central Valley, houses 52 youths ages 10 to 18. (A19A)
 Chris Essary, the director at the Excell Center, played with residents of the home, which is just outside Turlock. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PETER DASILVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19B) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOSTER CARE (92%); LITIGATION (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (77%); CHILDREN (77%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (72%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); JUDGES (66%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); DISABLED PERSONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



419 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1024 words

HEADLINE: Accord Reached On Insurance Tax For Costly Plans

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR and STEVEN GREENHOUSE; Robert Pear reported from Washington and Steven Greenhouse from New York. Carl Hulse and David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The White House, Congressional leaders and labor unions said Thursday that they had reached agreement on a proposal to tax high-cost health insurance policies, resolving one of the major differences between the House and the Senate over far-reaching health legislation.
 Their negotiations produced changes to a tax included in the bill passed by the Senate last month. The changes would lessen and delay the impact of the tax on workers and would reduce the amount of revenue collected. The revenue would help finance coverage for millions of people who are uninsured. 
 Labor leaders hailed the deal and said they were prepared to fight for passage of the legislation. 
 ''We have seen tremendous progress over the last couple of days,'' said Richard L. Trumka, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.
 Under the bill passed last month by the Senate, the federal government would have imposed a 40 percent tax on the value of employer-sponsored health coverage exceeding $8,500 a year for an individual and $23,000 for a family. The tax would have taken effect in 2013. White House officials, Democratic Congressional leaders and labor unions said Thursday that they had agreed to an increase in those thresholds to $8,900 for an individual and $24,000 for a family. Moreover, they said, starting in 2015, the cost of separate coverage for dental and vision care would be excluded from the calculations.
 In addition, they said, health plans covering state and local government employees and collectively bargained health plans would be exempt from the tax until 2018. This transition period addresses the concerns of schoolteachers and other public employees who have denounced the tax.
 For people in certain high-risk occupations, including police officers and construction workers, thresholds would be higher: as high as $27,000 for a family.
 In addition, Mr. Trumka, who led a team of labor leaders negotiating with the White House, said the thresholds would be increased for ''age and gender,'' to reflect the higher premiums often charged for health plans with large numbers of women, older workers and retirees. 
 He said the changes would reduce the amount of revenue from the tax by about 40 percent, to $90 billion over 10 years. The tax in the Senate bill would have generated $149 billion over 10 years. 
 A White House official, speaking to journalists on condition of anonymity, said he did not know how much revenue would be lost as a result of the changes. The White House said that the tax would still tend to slow the growth of health spending, and that the overall bill would not add to the federal budget deficit. 
 President Obama and Congress will find ways to offset the loss of revenue from the tax, the White House said.
 Republicans said the agreement was another special deal to win votes for the legislation by mollifying some of the Democrats' most loyal supporters.
 Progress in the negotiations came as Mr. Obama addressed House Democrats on Capitol Hill. He exhorted them to finish the job on health care despite fierce criticism from Republicans and fears among some Democrats that they could pay a political price for passing the legislation.
 ''Let me tell you something,'' Mr. Obama said, pointing to elements of the legislation he said would increase access to health care. ''If Republicans want to campaign against what we've done by standing up for the status quo and for insurance companies over American families and businesses, that is a fight I want to have.''
 The agreement has not been vetted by rank-and-file members of the Democratic caucus in either house of Congress. Nor has the Congressional Budget Office reviewed it. The proposed tax could be further modified based on feedback from lawmakers and the budget office.
 Mr. Obama and some economists contend that the tax could help rein in health spending by encouraging employers to reconfigure health benefits.
 While insurers would be responsible for paying the tax, the Congressional Budget Office and private economists say the cost would be passed on to workers and retirees.
 Representative Joe Courtney, Democrat of Connecticut, who has led opposition to the tax, said the agreement indicated that ''a lot more intelligence is being applied to this issue.'' But he added: ''I am reserving judgment. I would like to see more detail.''
 The tax could affect a significant number of health plans in the future because the thresholds would probably rise less than health costs and insurance premiums. Under the deal, as in the Senate bill, the thresholds would rise with the Consumer Price Index, plus one percentage point. 
 The thresholds would be further increased if insurance costs grow faster than expected from 2010 to 2013.
 Gerald W. McEntee, president of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, said he spoke to members of the House Democratic Caucus at their conclave on Thursday.
 ''They were quite receptive, although there were some people who wanted to fight for no excise tax at all,'' Mr. McEntee said.
 Republicans said the special treatment of collectively bargained health plans was a favor to union members, who have supported Democrats with campaign contributions and votes.
 Representative John Kline of Minnesota, the senior Republican on the House Education and Labor Committee, said that while union members might avoid the tax on high-cost health plans for five years, nonunion workers would have to pay it.
 ''This latest back-room maneuver is another example of how administration officials and their enablers in Congress will cut deals with their special-interest allies to impose a government takeover of health care,'' Mr. Kline said.
 White House officials defended the provision, saying it would allow employers, employees and insurance companies to prepare for the new tax.
 Under the agreement, Mr. Trumka and White House officials said, people in collectively bargained health plans could buy coverage through new government-regulated markets, known as insurance exchanges, starting in 2017. The officials said they were still working with Congress on details of this arrangement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, sitting next to Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Capitol Hill, gave a wink to a House member before his remarks.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH INSURANCE (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DENTAL INSURANCE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); OLDER WORKERS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



420 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: How Do You Get to the Big Apple Circus? Practice, Practice

BYLINE: By ROSLYN SULCAS

 BODY:
The Big Apple Circus continues through Monday in Damrosch Park at Lincoln Center; (888) 541-3750, bigapplecircus.org. 
 When the Big Apple Circus sets up shop every winter on the Lincoln Center Plaza, it's as if a small village has suddenly appeared next to the Metropolitan Opera House. There is not just the five-story-tall big top, but dozens of trailers in which 150 performers, technicians, administrative staff and their families and animals, live, eat, socialize and send their children to school.
 Yes, there is a school at the circus, which ends its Lincoln Center engagement on Monday. And there is a canteen that serves three meals a day and provides a communal environment for the performers, who stay with the Big Apple for a nine-month season before, in most cases, moving off to another gig. 
 So, how do you join the circus? Talking to several of this year's performers, it turns out that, with a few exceptions, you were born there in the first place. 
 Bello Nock
 Mr. Nock, a clown for whom this year's Big Apple show is named (''Bello Is Back!''), is not just a seventh-generation circus performer, but also a new genre of entertainer unto himself. Since the age of 15, he has maintained a signature appearance: his sheaf-of-wheat, foot-tall red hair, baggy tuxedo and two-tone shoes. He juggles, does trampoline and trapeze work, performs handstands on 60-foot sway poles, walks and rides motorcycles across high wires, and has even hung off a trapeze under a helicopter -- all the while making audiences laugh with his brilliantly comic timing and gusto.
 ''My father invented some apparatuses and acts that I use now,'' Mr. Nock, 41, said. ''The sway pole, the space wheel and riding a motorcycle on a high wire. When I was growing up, we weren't allowed to have a motorcycle to ride on the street. It was too dangerous. But on a high wire was O.K.'' 
 Mr. Nock, the youngest of four boys, grew up knowing that he wanted to be a clown and said he was determined from the start to continually reinvent his act. ''I always had that drive,'' he said. ''You can't count the hours in the day that you put into it, but that work is washed away by the response of the audience. In the circus and in life there is this thing called perfect balance -- you're always in search of that.''
 Long Bing and Long Jun 
 The contortionists Long Bing and Long Jun Long, twin brothers, look like teenagers in the ring, as they squeeze their ridiculously flexible bodies through narrow tubes and balance on each other's hands. But they are 41, and have been professional acrobats ever since graduating from a performing-arts school in Guizhou province in southwest China. ''No one in our family did anything like that,'' said Long Bing, ''and my parents weren't very happy about it, specially since we were good students. But we really liked it.''
 In 1994 the twins were invited to join a circus in San Francisco, and managed to get permission to go from the Chinese government. Since then they have mostly lived and worked in Las Vegas, joining Big Apple for the first time this season. ''We had missed circus life, playing to kids and families and being part of a bigger family of other performers,'' Long Bing said. 
 Long Jun said that they ''live a very simple life.''
 ''We train, we do shows,'' he added. ''And in New York we've seen lots of Broadway shows and museums. We love the culture.''
 Have they been to Chinatown to eat? ''Yes,'' Long Jun said cautiously. ''The food is a little ... American.''
 Christine Zerbini
 Long blond hair flowing, long blue dress swirling, Ms. Zerbini guides her three horses through complicated figures around the circus ring with simple, graceful arm gestures. She is following in the footsteps of nine generations of circus family. ''My dad's side, from Italy, performed with tigers and elephants,'' she explained. ''My mother's side, from France, did trapeze.''
 Ms. Zerbini, 32, learned both, performing as an aerialist before meeting Sultan Kumisbayev, a member of a Cossack troupe from Kazakhstan, and deciding to develop an equestrian act. ''I learned everything about training animals from my parents,'' she said. ''It takes about six months to teach the horses a new routine and get them used to new skills. They are very intelligent animals.'' 
 Ms. Zerbini grew up on the road with her family; she has three sisters, one of whom performs with elephants and two with horses. Now her children, who are 3 and 8, are growing up as she did, she said, ''watching shows and playing with the other circus kids.'' 
 Will they follow in their parents' footsteps? ''I'm not sure,'' Ms. Zerbini said. ''They see how much work it is.''
 Barry Lubin
 In a nondescript red dress, yellow stockings, a strand of pearls, and gray curly wig, Mr. Lubin has been Grandma, the Big Apple's signature clown, for much of the last 19 years. His mute, hilarious antics are delivered with a mixture of ladylike propriety and subversive mischief; popcorn spitting is not unknown.
 ''The character of Grandma developed over time, and for some reason I love it more than ever,'' said Mr. Lubin, 57, who did not come from a circus family. He grew up in New Jersey and aspired to be a television director, but auditioned for the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Clown College, was accepted and eventually performed with that circus. 
 Although he has made some attempts to leave the circus -- he did stand-up comedy in New York for a few years, and has tried his hand at teaching and directing -- Mr. Lubin said that he loves the life. ''I have a home in New Jersey, but whenever I'm there I feel very itchy to get back on the road. I think the New York gig is the premier circus gig in the world; there you are, living right next to the Met.''
 He is frank about the downsides. ''I would say the circus essentially ended my marriage because I was traveling so much,'' he said.
 Luciano Anastasini
 Mr. Anastasini, whose winsome dogs are an unfailing hit with all ages in the audience, was literally born in the circus, ''on the lot, in Barcelona.'' His parents, from Italy, had an acrobatic act, an aunt was an opera singer, an uncle a ballet dancer. ''My whole family has been in entertainment for eight generations, and at 3 I was riding a horse in the circus,'' he said.
 Mr. Anastasini, 52, trained as an acrobat and juggler, and developed an act with his brother that they brought to the United States in 1979. They married two sisters, trapeze artists from Mexico, and added aerial work to their routines. But 13 years ago Mr. Anastasini fell 50 feet from a spinning wheel and broke many bones. 
 ''When I was about 12,'' he said, ''my parents were performing in a circus in Madrid, and there were lots of stray dogs. I would take them in and play circus with them, train them to jump through hoops and push a water barrel.''
 He revived his old interest, started looking for dogs in pounds, and eventually rescued and trained 32 of them. Now he has eight dogs that travel with him, his wife and their two boys in their specially designed 30-foot trailer that holds a grooming area with bath, radio and television. ''Naturally my children want to be in the circus,'' he said. ''They are always inventing new acts.''
 Picaso Jr.
 When Francisco Tebar Honrubia, who performs as Picaso Jr., projects Ping-Pong balls into the air from his mouth, or propels plates across the big top and back as if they were boomerangs, he makes you want to rub your eyes in disbelief. Perhaps it's genetic. His father, El Gran Picaso, was a famed juggler -- ''the first,'' Mr. Tebar said, ''to do mouth juggling.''
 But Mr. Tebar considered himself too shy for a performing career and studied economics in his family's hometown, Valencia, Spain. The turning point came, he said, while he was doing his compulsory military service in Melilla on the North African coast.
 ''A little family circus, which I knew, came there, and I was captivated by the community, the show, everyone together,'' he said. ''I said to myself, I'm going to try this.''
 He developed a double act with his father, and has worked as a solo performer since 1998. His wife, a lawyer, and their two children, 5 and 8, travel with him. ''Circus life is great, but it's hard for circus performers to have roots,'' Mr. Tebar said. ''Perhaps we'll try to have a more stable life when our children get a bit older.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIRCUSES & CARNIVALS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); CHILDREN (76%); FAMILY (76%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%)

COMPANY: BIG APPLE CIRCUS LTD (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS711190 OTHER PERFORMING ARTS COMPANIES (95%); SIC7999 AMUSEMENT & RECREATION SERVICES, NEC (95%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



421 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1301 words

HEADLINE: In Power Push, Movement Sees Base in G.O.P.

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

DATELINE: HOLLAND, Pa. 

 BODY:
The Tea Party movement ignited a year ago, fueled by anti-establishment anger. Now, Tea Party activists are trying to take over the establishment, ground up.
 Across the country, they are signing up to be Republican precinct leaders, a position so low-level that it often remains vacant, but which comes with the ability to vote for the party executives who endorse candidates, approve platforms and decide where the party spends money. 
 A new group called the National Precinct Alliance says it has a coordinator in nearly every state to recruit Tea Party activists to fill the positions and has already swelled the number of like-minded members in Republican Party committees in Arizona and Nevada. Its mantra is this: take the precinct, take the state, take the party -- and force it to nominate conservatives rather than people they see as liberals in Republican clothing.
 Here, in a perennial battleground district outside Philadelphia, Tea Party activists are trying to strip the local committee of its influence in choosing the Republican nominee to run against Representative Patrick J. Murphy, a Democrat who won the seat in 2006 by about 1,500 votes. 
 After the local party said it would stick to its custom of endorsing a candidate rather than holding an open primary, Tea Party groups decided to hold their own candidate forum where people could cast a ballot. If the party does not yield, the groups say they will host a debate, too. 
 ''We kind of changed the rules,'' said Anastasia Przybylski, one of the organizers. 
 The Tea Party movement, named the original tax revolt in 1773, might be better described as a diverse, rambunctious and Internet-connected network of groups, powered by grass-roots anxiety about the economy, bailouts and increasing government involvement in health care. At one extreme are militia members who have shown up at meetings wearing guns and suggesting that institutions like the Federal Reserve be eliminated. At the other are those like Ms. Przybylski, who describes herself as ''just a stay-at-home mom'' who became agitated about the federal stimulus package.
 And if the Democrats are big-government socialists, the Republicans, in the Tea Party mind, are enablers.
 In some recent polls, a hypothetical Tea Party wins more support than Democrats or Republicans, and the most anti-establishment Tea Party activists push to fight as a third party. But as the movement looks toward the midterm elections in November, a growing number of activists argue that the best way to translate anger into influence is to infiltrate the Republican establishment (Democrats being, for the average Tea Partier, beyond redemption).
 ''If you want to have revenge against the Republican Party for using you for so many years, the best way is to turn around and use the Republican Party to your advantage,'' said Eric Odom, a Tea Party activist in Chicago who recently started a political action committee, and on his blog urged Tea Partiers to stop complaining about the Republican Party and ''move in and take it over.'' 
 Republican leaders have been trying to harness the Tea Party energy -- Michael Steele, the chairman of the Republican National Committee, recently called the Tea Parties ''a revelatory moment.'' 
 ''It puts in stark relief where the American people are, how they feel and what they feel,'' Mr. Steele said. ''It's important for our party to appreciate and understand that so we can move toward it, and embrace it.''
 Not all Republicans agree. Some say the party needs to broaden its reach, not cater to the fringe.
 The defining experience for many Tea Party groups was the special election in the 23rd Congressional District of New York in November, where party leaders chose a candidate whom conservatives viewed as a Republican in name only -- she supported same-sex marriage, abortion rights and the federal stimulus package. After activists flooded the district to support a conservative third-party candidate, the Republican dropped out and endorsed the Democrat, who won.
 Conservatives took the Republican retreat as a victory, but also saw the power of the party structure in deciding who the candidates will be. The rallying cry for more local involvement has been ''No more NY-23's.''
 ''We don't want to see what happened in New York happen here,'' Ms. Przybylski said. 
 The forum here drew nine candidates and a standing-room crowd in an auditorium built for 1,200. The questions organizers had drawn up for the candidates hinted at the issues important to so called Teapublicans.
 Will you pledge to vote against tax increases, even hidden taxes like those in health care reform? Should corporate executives who encourage illegal immigrants to stay because it is good for business be hauled off to jail? Do you believe manmade pollution is a significant contributor to global warming? (''I don't necessarily think there's been global warming,'' one candidate objected.)
 Each was asked to define the 10th Amendment, and to cite examples of where it ''might have been violated.'' ''It's my favorite amendment in the Constitution,'' exclaimed one candidate, Ira Hoffman. ''I can't believe it!''
 The amendment declares that powers not granted to the federal government by the Constitution are reserved to the states or the people, and Tea Party activists hold that Congress has overstepped its bounds, particularly by legislating health care. So candidates were asked whether they would support efforts to nullify the health care bill?
 Finally, the moderator asked them if 2010 would be ''the year of the Tea Party.'' The candidates, and many in the audience, said it would, but only if the Tea Party advocates worked the system.
 ''I think we can do greater things working in a system that's established than we ever can being a bunch of anarchists,'' said Jennifer Turner Stefano, a vice president of a local Tea Party group who is contesting her local Republican committeeperson. 
 Ms. Stefano, a stay-at-home mother and former television reporter, will have to get 10 signatures and put her name on the ballot to run. But the National Precinct Alliance estimates that about 60 percent of the roughly 150,000 local Republican committee seats are vacant and can be filled by essentially showing up.
 ''Even if you've got a slight majority, you just need maybe 26 states, then you can have your say in how the party goes,'' said Philip Glass, a former commercial mortgage banker in Cincinnati who is the national director of the precinct alliance.
 The precinct strategy, like the Tea Party movement itself, has spread via the Internet, on sites like Resistnet.com. A National Tea Party Convention in Nashville next month will feature seminars on how to take over starting at the precinct level.
 Advocates hold up the example of Las Vegas, where a group of about 30 people who had become friendly at Tea Party events last spring met to discuss how they could turn their crowds into political influence. One mentioned that there were about 500 open precinct committee positions in the local Republican Party. 
 They recruited other activists and flooded the committee -- the Republican Party says it now has 780 committee people, up from about 300. In July, they approved a new executive committee, and Tony Warren, one of the organizers and a new precinct committeeman himself, said six out of seven executives are ''constitutional conservatives,'' in keeping with Tea Party ideology. 
 With the bulk of Nevada's population in the Las Vegas area, the local committee was able to elect a conservative slate to the state party in December, including a state chairman who has said he wants to make the party ''safe'' for conservatives.
 As recently as last spring, Mr. Warren said, ''we didn't even know how the darn party worked.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The audience, top, at a forum held by Tea Party groups in Holland, Pa. At left, candidate hopefuls. Above, audience surveys are collected. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (94%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); BAILOUTS (68%)

PERSON: PATRICK J MURPHY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



422 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: A Rebel in Cyberspace, Fighting Collectivism

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
YOU ARE NOT A GADGET 
 A Manifesto 
 By Jaron Lanier 
 209 pages. Alfred A. Knopf. $24.95. 
 In 2006, the artist and computer scientist Jaron Lanier published an incisive, groundbreaking and highly controversial essay about ''digital Maoism'' -- about the downside of online collectivism, and the enshrinement by Web 2.0 enthusiasts of the ''wisdom of the crowd.'' In that manifesto Mr. Lanier argued that design (or ratification) by committee often does not result in the best product, and that the new collectivist ethos -- embodied by everything from Wikipedia to ''American Idol'' to Google searches -- diminishes the importance and uniqueness of the individual voice, and that the ''hive mind'' can easily lead to mob rule.
 Now, in his impassioned new book ''You Are Not a Gadget,'' Mr. Lanier expands this thesis further, looking at the implications that digital Maoism or ''cybernetic totalism'' have for our society at large. Although some of his suggestions for addressing these problems wander into technical thickets the lay reader will find difficult to follow, the bulk of the book is lucid, powerful and persuasive. It is necessary reading for anyone interested in how the Web and the software we use every day are reshaping culture and the marketplace. 
 Mr. Lanier, a pioneer in the development of virtual reality and a Silicon Valley veteran, is hardly a Luddite, as some of his critics have suggested. Rather he is a digital-world insider who wants to make the case for ''a new digital humanism'' before software engineers' design decisions, which he says fundamentally shape users' behavior, become ''frozen into place by a process known as lock-in.'' Just as decisions about the dimensions of railroad tracks determined the size and velocity of trains for decades to come, he argues, so choices made about software design now may yield ''defining, unchangeable rules'' for generations to come.
 Decisions made in the formative years of computer networking, for instance, promoted online anonymity, and over the years, as millions upon millions of people began using the Web, Mr. Lanier says, anonymity has helped enable the dark side of human nature. Nasty, anonymous attacks on individuals and institutions have flourished, and what Mr. Lanier calls a ''culture of sadism'' has gone mainstream. In some countries anonymity and mob behavior have resulted in actual witch hunts. ''In 2007,'' Mr. Lanier reports, ''a series of 'Scarlet Letter' postings in China incited online throngs to hunt down accused adulterers. In 2008, the focus shifted to Tibet sympathizers.'' 
 Mr. Lanier sensibly notes that the ''wisdom of crowds'' is a tool that should be used selectively, not glorified for its own sake. Of Wikipedia he writes that ''it's great that we now enjoy a cooperative pop culture concordance'' but argues that the site's ethos ratifies the notion that the individual voice -- even the voice of an expert -- is eminently dispensable, and ''the idea that the collective is closer to the truth.'' He complains that Wikipedia suppresses the sound of individual voices, and similarly contends that the rigid format of Facebook turns individuals into ''multiple-choice identities.'' 
 Like Andrew Keen in ''The Cult of the Amateur,'' Mr. Lanier is most eloquent on how intellectual property is threatened by the economics of free Internet content, crowd dynamics and the popularity of aggregator sites. ''An impenetrable tone deafness rules Silicon Valley when it comes to the idea of authorship,'' he writes, recalling the Wired editor Kevin Kelly's 2006 prediction that the mass scanning of books would one day create a universal library in which no book would be an island -- in effect, one humongous text, made searchable and remixable on the Web. 
 ''It might start to happen in the next decade or so,'' Mr. Lanier writes. ''Google and other companies are scanning library books into the cloud in a massive Manhattan Project of cultural digitization. What happens next is what's important. If the books in the cloud are accessed via user interfaces that encourage mashups of fragments that obscure the context and authorship of each fragment, there will be only one book. This is what happens today with a lot of content; often you don't know where a quoted fragment from a news story came from, who wrote a comment, or who shot a video.'' 
 While this development might sound like a good thing for consumers -- so much free stuff! -- it makes it difficult for people to discern the source, point of view and spin factor of any particular fragment they happen across on the Web, while at the same time encouraging content producers, in Mr. Lanier's words, ''to treat the fruits of their intellects and imaginations as fragments to be given without pay to the hive mind.'' A few lucky people, he notes, can benefit from the configuration of the new system, spinning their lives into ''still-novel marketing'' narratives, as in the case, say, of Diablo Cody, ''who worked as a stripper, can blog and receive enough attention to get a book contract, and then have the opportunity to have her script made into a movie -- in this case, the widely acclaimed 'Juno.' '' He fears, however, that ''the vast majority of journalists, musicians, artists and filmmakers'' are ''staring into career oblivion because of our failed digital idealism.'' 
 Paradoxically enough, the same old media that is being destroyed by the Net drives an astonishing amount of online chatter. ''Comments about TV shows, major movies, commercial music releases, and video games must be responsible for almost as much bit traffic as porn,'' Mr. Lanier observes. ''There is certainly nothing wrong with that, but since the Web is killing the old media, we face a situation in which culture is effectively eating its own seed stock.'' 
 In other passages in this provocative and sure-to-be-controversial book he goes even further, suggesting that ''pop culture has entered into a nostalgic malaise,'' that ''online culture is dominated by trivial mashups of the culture that existed before the onset of mashups, and by fandom responding to the dwindling outposts of centralized mass media.'' 
 Online culture, he goes on, ''is a culture of reaction without action'' and rationalizations that ''we were entering a transitional lull before a creative storm'' are just that -- rationalizations. ''The sad truth,'' he concludes, ''is that we were not passing through a momentary lull before a storm. We had instead entered a persistent somnolence, and I have come to believe that we will only escape it when we kill the hive.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C27)
 Jaron Lanier (PHOTOGRAPH BY JONATHAN SPRAGUE) (C33) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); INTERNET PRIVACY (77%); WEB 2 (77%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); HERD BEHAVIOR (76%); REALITY TELEVISION (75%); COMPUTER ENGINEERING (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (70%); VIRTUAL REALITY (64%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (63%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (52%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%); CHINA (79%); TIBET (74%)

TITLE: You Are Not a Gadget (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



423 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1126 words

HEADLINE: Intel's Bet on Innovation Pays Off in Faster Chips

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
At about this time last year, Intel's board decided to invest $7 billion in new chip plants in Oregon, Arizona and New Mexico. 
 With the global economy reeling, businesses and consumers had pulled way back on their typical technology spending, and sales of personal computers had started to decline at their steepest rates in history. The major two-year investment was a matter of faith -- in an economic recovery and in the Internet continuing to drive a long-term increase in demand for computers, smartphones and other devices with chips inside. 
 ''As you can imagine, there was a lot of uncertainty in that January board meeting,'' said Jane E. Shaw, the chairman of Intel's board and former chief executive at the pharmaceutical company Aerogen, in an interview. 
 Today, Intel's bet on the future is looking as if it will pay off big. The first chips from the plants arrived this month, made with techniques that let the company create smaller, faster and lower-power products than its main competitors. Just as it has in past downturns, Intel has used its hefty pile of cash to advance its manufacturing prowess and technology while rival chip makers have struggled to stay afloat.
 Meanwhile, broader technology spending is on the rebound, suggesting that both companies and consumers are more optimistic about their own futures. 
 On Thursday, Intel, the first major tech company to report earnings, said that revenue rose 28 percent to $10.6 billion in the fourth quarter, and the company earned the largest gross profit margin in its history. Net income was $2.3 billion, or 40 cents a share, up tenfold from the $234 million, or 4 cents a share, it earned in the last quarter of 2008.
 This week, Gartner, a technology research firm, reported that worldwide PC shipments rose 22 percent to 90 million units during the fourth quarter, which is a healthy recovery from the dismal fourth quarter of 2008. Because of its investment in the downturn, Intel, which makes the chips at the heart of most PCs, is poised to benefit from that surge more than most tech firms. 
 ''They continued to innovate while many of their competitors were swimming in debt and reducing their head count,'' said Bill Kreher, an analyst with Edward Jones. ''The big and strong will emerge even stronger from the downturn, and Intel is no exception.''
 Wall Street analysts polled by Thomson Reuters had expected Intel to earn 30 cents a share on revenue of $10.17 billion, significantly underestimating Intel's performance. Company executives attributed the gains to its manufacturing strengths and a long-term plan that lowered the company's annual operations spending.
 ''The cumulative impact has left us more nimble, more competitive and more flexible that I can ever recall -- certainly since the '70s,'' wrote Paul S. Otellini, Intel's chief executive, in an e-mail interview before the earnings report. 
 But Intel also showed especially strong gains from one of its riskiest bets in recent memory -- the Atom chip, a cheaper processor that is used in the small laptops known as netbooks and is being adapted for use in smartphones. The company said it sold $1.4 billion of Atom chips over the last year.
 Intel executives had feared that the Atom and netbooks could undermine the company's more profitable business with traditional laptops, but they pushed hard on the products anyway. The new plants produce the chip at a lower cost, and Intel is the leading player in the fast-growing netbook market.
 ''I have to give them a pat on the back for having the guts to go with Atom despite the fact that it could have hurt their business,'' said Fred Weber, a former executive with Intel's rival, Advanced Micro Devices. ''They built the right chip for the right time.''
 But there are clouds on the horizon.
 Although Intel recently paid A.M.D. $1.25 billion to settle long-running litigation, the Federal Trade Commission and the New York attorney general's office have filed sweeping antitrust lawsuits against the company. The European Union fined Intel $1.45 billion last May. The governments charge that the company, the world's largest chip maker, has abused its market power to squelch competition and charge higher prices to its customers.
 Industry experts also wonder how long Intel can continue to leverage its manufacturing muscle. Contract chip makers like Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing continue to improve their production skills and have a wide variety of customers that help keep their plants full. 
 Intel's rivals like A.M.D. and Qualcomm are reducing capital costs by using such contract chip makers. Indeed, A.M.D. spun off its factories into a new chip-making venture called Globalfoundries, which is backed by large investments from the government of Abu Dhabi.
 China continues to invest in contract chip makers as well.
 More significantly, demand for chips that use the ARM architecture, a competitor to Intel's architecture, has been rising. Most commonly found in cellphones, ARM chips have started to make their way into computers and even computer servers -- two markets where Intel commands an approximately 80 percent share.
 ''There is a possibility that Intel's financial monopoly will be broken,'' said Mr. Weber, who has also received past investments from Intel for a start-up. ''Was this Intel's last chance to crank that old model? I highly doubt it. But it's actually getting interesting to speculate about now.''
 Intel generated in $11 billion in cash from its operations last year, and its financial strength has enabled it to withstand the economic and political winds and still pour money into some of the most expensive manufacturing facilities ever built. 
 The company's critics have long contended that it has earned such a luxury through anticompetitive practices. But other large tech firms are in similarly strong positions and have used the recession as an opportunity to get a leg up on competitors. 
 Oracle, the leader in database software, has moved to acquire the fallen angel Sun Microsystems, adding a large hardware business to its portfolio. Cisco Systems, the largest networking equipment seller, spent more than $7 billion last year on acquisitions that bolstered its positions in new markets. And Hewlett-Packard, the largest technology company, added the vast services business of Electronic Data Systems to complement its hardware and software product lines.
 Mr. Otellini makes no apologies about Intel's favorable position and said the company would march on into new areas like cellphones, cars and consumer devices on the back of its manufacturing might.
 ''Everyone in the company knows that innovation is our lifeblood and did a fabulous job on delivering it,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A worker at a plant in Oregon, where Intel invested heavily. (B1)
 Peter Kirdan, center, prepares to report to his job as a manufacturing technician at Intel's chip plant in Hillsboro, Ore. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JAMES W. PRICHARD FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (87%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); SHIPMENTS (72%); EXECUTIVES (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (59%) OREGON, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (91%); ARIZONA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



424 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 19A

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: Blacks Try to Retain Power as Board Race Splits Community

BYLINE: By DON TERRY

 BODY:
No matter how deep the snow, icy the sidewalks or wicked the wind, nothing was going to keep 76-year-old Mary L. Johnson away from Wallace's Catfish Corner on Friday night. 
 Mrs. Johnson wasn't hungry, she was scared -- afraid for the future of black politics in Chicago. ''The black community,'' she said, ''is in serious trouble.''
 She was joined at Wallace's by more than 300 men and women, young and old, who share her concern. They crowded into the popular soul food restaurant, not far from the West Side block where the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. lived in a crumbling tenement in 1966. Even as the nation prepares to celebrate what would have been Dr. King's 81st birthday, Chicago remains nearly as segregated as the city where Dr. King protested housing discrimination more than 40 years ago.
 They came from across the city for a sometimes angry rally in support of Todd H. Stroger, the embattled Cook County board president. 
 In the Democratic Party primary on Feb. 2, Mr. Stroger will face two black opponents -- Alderman Toni Preckwinkle of the Fourth Ward and Dorothy Brown, the clerk of the Cook County Circuit Court -- and one white candidate, Terrence O'Brien, president of the Metropolitan Water Reclamation District. 
 That the uncharismatic Mr. Stroger, a loyal member of the Democratic Party machine his entire life, has become the unlikely champion of the grass-roots movement is a sign of how anxious a sizable segment of Chicago's black population is about the state of its political power -- despite having Barack Obama, a South Sider, in the White House. 
 The restaurant's two back rooms were packed with pastors and politicians, great-grandmothers and former offenders chanting, ''Soldiers for Stroger.'' Mr. Stroger this week denounced fliers distributed by a group called ''Soldiers 4 Stroger'' that used racist terms in implying Mr. Stroger's opponents are controlled by white politicians. 
 ''Somebody say 'Grass roots,' '' one of the pastors demanded. 
 ''Grass roots,'' the makeshift congregation thundered. 
 The pastor put his hand on Mr. Stroger's shoulder and said, ''This man is under attack.'' 
 ''We are all,'' someone shouted from the back of the room. 
 Mr. Stroger, dressed in a gray pinstriped suit, quietly took the microphone. ''I'm fighting for black people to have their share,'' he said. ''We have never gotten our fair share.'' 
 Many voters, elected officials and scholars said in interviews they believe that black political power in the county is in decline. The black population, many said, is politically divided and lacks a galvanizing figure to rally around, like the late mayor Harold Washington or Mr. Obama. 
 It is a winter of discontent for blacks in Chicago. 
 ''The black masses are becoming increasingly disillusioned,'' said Robert T. Starks, a professor of political science at Northeastern Illinois University. ''The economy is getting worse. We're now sending 30,000 more young men and women to Afghanistan. Unemployment is through the roof. Our leadership is in disarray. It's every man for himself. We're in bad shape.'' 
 Black politics is going through ''a sorting-out period right now,'' said Hermene Hartman, publisher of N'Digo, a weekly magazine that focuses on the black community. Ms. Hartman said the old guard was fading away. Emil Jones, the president of the Illinois Senate, retired last year; Mr. Stroger's father, John H. Stroger Jr., the county's first black president and, like his son, a loyal member of the Democratic Party machine, died in 2008. So where is black politics today? 
 ''I think it's shifting,'' Ms. Hartman said. ''We're still trying to figure it out.'' 
 State Senator Rickey R. Hendon, who is running for lieutenant governor, said the rift among black politicians was due largely to a generational conflict, pitting ''old warhorses'' against younger, progressive candidates who are more open to coalition building. 
 ''The black community is going through a cleansing,'' Mr. Hendon said. ''Young black candidates are popping up because of Barack's influence. The black voter is tired of the old regime.'' 
 They may be getting tired of the new regime as well. Mark Allen, an advocate of black independent politics, said black voters in Chicago had gone from giddy about the future to turned off by politics since Mr. Obama's election as president. 
 ''People have been watching all that stimulus money go to Wall Street while their street is filled with their children shooting each other and their mothers and fathers out of work and hope,'' Mr. Allen said. ''We've got this disconnect between black leaders and the black masses.'' 
 Salim Muwakkil, a senior editor at In These Times magazine and a talk show host on black-owned WVON radio, said he heard from discontented blacks almost every day as the election draws nearer. 
 ''They are disgruntled about the fact that the black community has been politically impotent for many years now and there's no prospect that is going to change anytime soon,'' Mr. Muwakkil said.
 Mr. Stroger, 47, was described by many at the Friday night rally as the last line of defense against black political powerlessness, a view that ignores the presence among elected office holders in Illinois of a United States senator, Secretary of State Jesse White, Ms. Brown and others. 
 Still, the county board president wields more power than any of those officeholders. Mr. Stroger oversees a $3 billion budget and more than 25,000 employees. 
 ''It's a very powerful job, almost as powerful as the mayor of the city of Chicago,'' Professor Starks said. ''I'm worried that with three African-Americans in the race, the vote will be split and we will end up with nothing.'' 
 Ms. Hartman said she had had a hard time deciding on a candidate. No one, she said, stands out.
 ''I think the Cook County president's race is up for grabs,'' she said, adding that she worries that the black vote will be split three ways and that blacks will lose the position. ''We're going backwards, and we're going back fast,'' she said. 
 Mr. Stroger will need more than fiery rallies to save his job, though polling indicates that concerns about a split in the black vote leading to election of the lone white candidate may be overblown. According to a Chicago Tribune poll last month, Mr. Stroger is running behind Ms. Brown and Ms. Preckwinkle, who likes to remind people that ''this is not an African-American primary, it's a Democratic primary.'' 
 Mr. O'Brien came in last. Mr. Muwakkil, among others interviewed, was skeptical that Mr. O'Brien is doing so poorly. ''I think he's sneaking up,'' Mr. Muwakkil said. 
 In an Internet poll conducted in December by WVON -- once known as the ''Voice of the Negro'' -- Mr. Stroger overwhelmed the competition, with more than 60 percent support from WVON listeners. 
 But by no means does Mr. Stroger have a lock on black support. Ms. Preckwinkle and Ms. Brown have enlisted impressive rosters of black supporters. Representative Danny K. Davis of Illinois, who dropped out of the county board race in November, has endorsed Ms. Brown -- primarily, he said, because she was leading in the polls at the time and had the best chance of winning. 
 Despite the high stakes, political handicappers predict a low voter turnout for the February primary, not just among blacks, but across Chicago's electoral rainbow. A low turnout, said Don Rose, a longtime political consultant who helped elect the city's first female and the city's first black mayors, will help Mr. O'Brien most. Mr. Rose said Mr. O'Brien had the support of what was left of the Democratic machine. 
 On Friday night, Larry Minton stood in the back of Wallace's Catfish Corner, waiting for the rally to start. A construction worker, Mr. Minton, 38, has been out of a job for months. He also expects a low voter turnout. 
 ''No one is thinking about the election because of the economy,'' Mr. Minton said. ''People my age, we're just trying to make ends meet, hoping the Congress passes another extension of unemployment.'' 
 Mrs. Johnson was more optimistic. She said she was going to spend the next three weeks knocking on doors, making telephone calls or whatever it took to get people to the polls. 
 ''We did it last year,'' she said, referring to the election of Mr. Obama. ''We can do it again. It's almost like the people are beginning to rise up from a nap.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: More than 300 people crowded Wallace's Catfish Corner last Friday night to support Todd H. Stroger, the county board president.
 Mary L. Johnson is worried about the future of black politics in Chicago, and she will go door to door to get people to the polls. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOSE MORE/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (87%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); RESTAURANTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); COUNTIES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); DISCRIMINATION (70%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); JAMES J O'BRIEN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



425 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 807 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 U.S. APPROVES TRAINING TO EXPAND AFGHAN ARMY
 The Pentagon increased the number of Afghan security troops it plans to train by October 2011, military officials said. The new training goals would increase the size of the Afghan Army from 102,400 soldiers to 171,600. PAGE A8
 ISRAELI ACCUSED OF POLYGAMY 
 An Israeli man who lived openly with at least 17 women was ordered to court on suspicion of enslavement, sexual abuse and possible rape. The suspect, Goel Ratzon, is considered the ''savior of the universe'' by his followers. He was arrested after a seven-month investigation, the police said. PAGE A4 
 IRAQ SENTENCES 11 TO DEATH
 A court in Baghdad sentenced 11 Iraqis to death for planning and carrying out two bombings last summer on Iraq's Foreign and Finance Ministries. The blasts killed at least 95 people and wounded hundreds. PAGE A8 
 STRIKE KILLS 10 IN PAKISTAN
 An American drone strike in northwest Pakistan was aimed at the leader of the Pakistani Taliban, Hakimullah Mehsud, who claimed responsibility for the suicide attack last month on a C.I.A. base in Afghanistan. PAGE A8
 RUSSIA MAY BACK REFORMS
 The Russian Parliament is expected to reverse its opposition to reforms in the European Court of Human Rights as part of a new push to smooth over differences with its European partners. PAGE A9 
 SUPPORT FOR GOOGLE'S MOVE
 Google's decision to stop cooperating with Chinese government censors is galvanizing an unusually broad coalition, including technology communities and human rights groups. PAGE A10 
 National
 CONCERN OVER INTELLIGENCE PROMPTS MORE SEARCHES
 The Department of Homeland Security increased random checks for explosives at American airports. Counterterrorism officials said recent intelligence had hinted at a planned attack by Al Qaeda, but that the information was vague. PAGE A19
 LABOR BOARD STILL UNFILLED
 A dispute involving Senator John McCain has hobbled the National Labor Relations Board. The board has limped along with just two of its five positions filled, leaving many cases unresolved. PAGE A16 
 COLLEGE FOR UNION WORKERS
 The A.F.L.-C.I.O., the National Labor College and the Princeton Review are creating an online college for the federation's 11.5 million members and their families. PAGE A18 
 EX-INSPECTOR IS CHARGED
 A former chief United Nations weapons inspector in Iraq, Scott Ritter, has been charged in Pennsylvania with engaging in online sexual exchanges with a minor. PAGE A17 
 New York
 FOR THESE 3 NEW YORKERS, NO FRIEND IN OBAMA
 The White House has given the political thumbs down to three black candidates in New York. So what gives? Is President Obama just judging candidates by the content of their poll numbers? NYC by Clyde Haberman. PAGE A20 
 Obituaries
 JAY REATARD, 29
 A prolific songwriter who used the stage name Jay Reatard, he was a force in the worlds of punk and garage rock with a discography of 22 albums. PAGE A25 
 Business
 INTEL'S BET ON INNOVATION PAYS OFF IN FASTER CHIPS
 About a year ago, with the global economy reeling, Intel invested $7 billion in new chip plants in the United States. Intel's gamble looks to be paying off. The company has advanced its manufacturing and technology while rival chip makers have struggled to stay afloat. PAGE B1
 SHISEIDO BUYS MANUFACTURER
 Shiseido, a Japanese cosmetics company, said that it had agreed to buy Bare Escentuals, one of the biggest players in the world of mineral makeup, for $1.7 billion. PAGE B2 
 BERNANKE DEFENDS FED
 Facing renewed calls to limit its authority, the Federal Reserve's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, argued that stripping the Fed of powers would make the financial system more vulnerable to collapse. PAGE B3 
 TESTIMONY ON CRISIS' ORIGIN
 The need for tighter federal regulation was the dominant message given to the panel established by Congress to examine the causes of the financial crisis. PAGE B3 
 RULING ON E-CIGARETTES
 A federal judge ordered the Food and Drug Administration to stop blocking the importation of electronic cigarettes from China and indicated that the devices should be regulated as tobacco products. PAGE B3 
 Sports
 WIZARDS' ARENAS IS CHARGED WITH A FELONY FOR WEAPONS
 The United States attorney for the District of Columbia charged Gilbert Arenas of the Washington Wizards with carrying a pistol outside his home without a license. Arenas has acknowledged storing four unloaded guns in the Wizards' locker room at the Verizon Center. PAGE B10
 Weekend
 MUSEUMS AND LAWMAKERS MEET TO DISCUSS SALE OF ART
 It was once unthinkable: a museum selling art to pay the bills. Then came the Great Recession. So New York lawmakers met with representatives from museums to discuss regulating the sales of artwork and artifacts. PAGE C31 
 Can 'Idol' Still Create Idols? C2
 Op-ed
 PAUL KRUGMAN PAGE A27 
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (88%); TERRORISM (88%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (87%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); SEX OFFENSES (77%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); COUNTERTERRORISM (75%); DEATHS (74%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (74%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); ARRESTS (72%); CENSORSHIP (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); SENTENCING (71%); POLYGAMY (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (69%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); AL-QAEDA (67%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%); POP & ROCK (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (92%)

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



426 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Treads Lightly in Wake of Google's Loud Stance on China

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER and JOHN MARKOFF; David E. Sanger reported from Santa Clara, and John Markoff from San Francisco. Mark Landler contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: SANTA CLARA, Calif. 

 BODY:
Last month, when Google engineers at their sprawling campus in Silicon Valley began to suspect that Chinese intruders were breaking into private Gmail accounts, the company began a secret counteroffensive.
 It managed to gain access to a computer in Taiwan that it suspected of being the source of the attacks. Peering inside that machine, company engineers actually saw evidence of the aftermath of the attacks, not only at Google, but also at at least 33 other companies, including Adobe Systems, Northrop Grumman and Juniper Networks, according to a government consultant who has spoken with the investigators.
 Seeing the breadth of the problem, they alerted American intelligence and law enforcement officials and worked with them to assemble powerful evidence that the masterminds of the attacks were not in Taiwan, but on the Chinese mainland. 
 But while much of the evidence, including the sophistication of the attacks, strongly suggested an operation run by Chinese government agencies, or at least approved by them, company engineers could not definitively prove their case. Today that uncertainty, along with concerns about confronting the Chinese without strong evidence, has frozen the Obama administration's response to the intrusion, one of the biggest cyberattacks of its kind, and to some extent the response of other targets, including some of the most prominent American companies. 
 President Obama, who has repeatedly warned of the country's vulnerability to devastating cyberattacks, has said nothing in public about one of the biggest examples since he took office. And the White House, while repeating Mr. Obama's calls for Internet freedom, has not publicly demanded a Chinese government investigation. Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, who had been the most senior U.S. official to talk of the seriousness of the breach, discussed it on Thursday with a Chinese diplomat in Washington, however, and a senior administration official said there would be a ''demarche in coming days'' -- a diplomatic move.
 On Thursday, China's Foreign Ministry deflected questions about Google's charges and dismissed its declaration that it would no longer ''self-censor'' searches conducted on google.cn, its Chinese search engine. A ministry spokeswoman said simply that online services in China must be conducted ''in accordance with the law.''
 In interviews in which they disclosed new details of their efforts to solve the mystery, Google engineers said they doubted that a nongovernmental actor could pull off something this broad and well organized, but they conceded that even their counterintelligence operation, taking over the Taiwan server, could not provide the kind of airtight evidence needed to prove the case.
 The murkiness of the attacks is no surprise. For years the National Security Agency and other arms of the United States government have struggled with the question of ''attribution'' of an attack; what makes cyberwar so unlike conventional war is that it is often impossible, even in retrospect, to find where the attack began, or who was responsible. 
 The questions surrounding the Google attacks have companies doing business in China scrambling to confirm that they were victims. Symantec, Adobe and Juniper Networks acknowledged in interviews that they were investigating whether they had been attacked. Northrop and Yahoo, also described as subjects of the attacks, declined to comment. 
 Besides being unable to firmly establish the source of the attacks, Google investigators have been unable to determine the goal: to gain commercial advantage; insert spyware; break into the Gmail accounts of Chinese dissidents and American experts on China who frequently exchange e-mail messages with administration officials; or all three. In fact, at least one prominent Washington research organization with close ties to administration officials was among those hacked, according to one person familiar with the episode.
 Even as the United States and companies doing business in China assess the impact, the attacks signal the arrival of a new kind of conflict between the world's No. 1 economic superpower and the country that, by year's end, will overtake Japan to become No. 2.
 It makes the tensions of the past, over China's territorial claims or even the collision of an American spy plane and Chinese fighter pilots nine years ago, seem as outdated as a grainy film clip of Mao reviewing the May Day parade. But it also lays bare the degree to which China and the United States are engaged in daily cyberbattles, a covert war of offense and defense on which America is already spending billions of dollars a year.
 Computer experts who track the thousands of daily attacks on corporate and government computer sites report that the majority of sophisticated attacks seem to emanate from China. What they cannot say is whether the hackers are operating on behalf of the Chinese state or in a haven that the Chinese have encouraged. 
 The latest episode illuminates the ambiguities. 
 For example, the servers that carried out many of the attacks were based in Taiwan, though a Google executive said ''it only took a few seconds to determine that the real origin was on the mainland.'' And at Google's headquarters in Mountain View, there is little doubt that Beijing was behind the attacks. Partly that is because while Mr. Obama was hailing a new era of cautious cooperation with China, Google was complaining of mounting confrontation, chiefly over Chinese pressure on it to make sure Chinese users could not directly link to the American-based ''google.com'' site, to evade much of the censorship the company had reluctantly imposed on its main Chinese portal, google.cn. 
 ''Everything we are learning is that in this case the Chinese government got caught with its hand in the cookie jar,'' said James A. Lewis, a senior fellow at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, who consulted for the White House on cybersecurity last spring. ''Would it hold up in court? No. But China is the only government in the world obsessed about Tibet, and that issue goes right to the heart of their vision of political survival and putting down the separatists' movements.'' 
 Over the years, there have been private warnings issued to China, notably after an attack on the computer systems used by the office of the defense secretary two years ago. A senior military official said in December that that attack ''raised a lot of alarm bells,'' but the attacker could not be pinpointed. The administration cautioned Chinese officials that attacks seemingly aimed at the national security leadership would not be tolerated, according to one American who took part in delivering that message.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INFORMATION WARFARE (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (64%); INTERNET & WWW (64%); SEARCH ENGINES (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (72%); JUNIPER NETWORKS INC (57%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (72%); ADB (FRA) (72%); JNPR (NYSE) (57%); NOC (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (72%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (57%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (57%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (57%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); TAIWAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



427 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 751 words

BYLINE: By GEORGE HAY, MARGARET DOYLE and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS

 BODY:
Europe's Edge 
 In U.S. Bank Tax
European banks should suffer less than their American counterparts from the Obama administration's proposed bank tax. The president's proposed levy on banks' wholesale funding requirements would hit all banks with a big presence on Wall Street. But assuming that banks in the United States would be taxed on their worldwide operations, the levy would hurt them more. That could be a major bonus for European investment banks -- as long as their own governments don't follow suit. 
 The levy would still hurt European banks with big operations in the United States. Take HSBC, which has total liabilities of $391 billion in the United States. Even allowing for an estimated $104 billion of government-insured deposits and equity, which are exempt, that still leaves $287 billion of liabilities that would be taxed. Assuming a levy of 15 basis points, the charge would cost HSBC $430 million a year. That's about 8 percent of the bank's preprovision operating profits in North America, according to Morgan Stanley. 
 HSBC is particularly exposed to the tax because it has a large consumer finance subsidiary, which is barred by regulators from collecting deposits. European banks with retail operations in the United States, like Spain's BBVA, should fare better because they have more deposits. But large European players on Wall Street, like Deutsche Bank and Credit Suisse, are investment banking subsidiaries with minimal deposits. They would probably face a similar hit to HSBC. 
 If United States banks were taxed on their global balance sheets, they would find it difficult to escape the tax. European banks, however, could respond by reducing their exposure to the United States. That would give European banks a competitive financial advantage over their Wall Street rivals. 
 But that advantage would hold only if their home countries did not follow Mr. Obama's lead. Given the obvious attractions of a tax that allows governments to pay back the respective bailouts of their financial sectors, that is not something European banks can take for granted. 
 A Populist Levy
 Congress, particularly the Senate, has been a graveyard for aggressive financial reform. And banks are hoping the new bank levy will suffer a similar fate. They should not count on it. A clever design and a determined White House push mean Wall Street may have to pay up. 
 At first glance, the proposal would seem to have no better chance than a number of other relatively tough measures stuck on Capitol Hill. A transaction tax -- often called a Tobin tax -- and a supertax on bank bonuses are among ideas that appear to have no future. For each, support in the Senate has been lacking. 
 But smartly constructed policy can make the politics easier. Legislators see logic in focusing a tax on the liabilities of institutions that use hot, wholesale sources of finance. Structurally, that looks a lot like the levies the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation already charges for deposit insurance. And the government's recent role rescuing banks was not so dissimilar from what the F.D.I.C. does with deposits. 
 Also, the tax is supposed to hit investment banks hardest. That means it can be billed as a sort of Goldman Sachs tax. In Washington, as in Hollywood, an obvious villain helps sell a story. 
 The Obama administration views the tax as a splashy way of promoting policies intended to prevent a repeat of the financial crisis. Unable to loudly trumpet an economic recovery as November's elections loom, the administration sees a populist battle against Wall Street as the next best advantage for Democrat candidates. 
 Republican objectors will be forced to side with the banks. And there just might be fewer senators willing to do that than Wall Street needs. While there are a couple of Democrats whose support cannot be counted on, Republicans Charles E. Grassley of Iowa and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine co-sponsored a bill last year that would have taxed bonuses at banks that received government help. They and other moderates in the G.O.P. might support the tax if they believed it would help reduce the federal deficit. 
 At the same time, any notion that the bank levy could become a permanent tax would rally Republicans against it. But as things stand, the tax -- rather surprisingly -- seems to have avoided being seen as dead on arrival. GEORGE HAY, MARGARET DOYLE and JAMES PETHOKOUKIS 
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine might back a bank tax to cut the deficit. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW HARRER/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WHOLESALE BANKING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); POLITICS (77%); BAILOUT BONUSES (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%); HSBC HOLDINGS PLC (92%); BANCO BILBAO VIZCAYA ARGENTARIA SA (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%); HSBA (LSE) (92%); HSB (PAR) (92%); HBC (NYSE) (92%); 0005 (HKSE) (92%); BVA (LSE) (91%); BBVA (NYSE) (91%); BBVA (MCE) (91%); BBVA (BMV) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); SPAIN (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



428 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Banks for the Bailout

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama laid down his proposal for a new tax on the nation's largest financial institutions on Thursday, saying he wanted ''to recover every single dime the American people are owed'' for bailing out the economy.
 With both anti-Wall Street sentiment and the budget deficit running high, Democratic leaders on Capitol Hill welcomed the proposal, which could ultimately raise up to $117 billion to cover projected bailout losses. Republicans were uncharacteristically silent, their instinctive opposition to tax increases apparently checked by their fear of defending big bankers. And the financial industry lobby seemed splintered, with small community banks happily exempted.
 The biggest question, then, might be whether liberals in Mr. Obama's own party would press him to go even further than he and Democratic moderates wanted to go. About the same time that the president was announcing his plan at the White House, a group of House Democrats held a news conference to call for a 50 percent tax on bonuses exceeding $50,000 at banks that took bailout money.
 The administration has opposed taxing bonuses in the past, saying shareholders should determine corporate pay policies. Mr. Obama, in his remarks, suggested that his proposal to tax some of banks' assets could have the same effect, by forcing them to shrink the size of their bonuses in turn. 
 Flanked by his economic advisers at the White House, Mr. Obama spoke in some of his harshest language to date about the resurgent financial industry.
 ''We're already hearing a hue and cry from Wall Street suggesting that this proposed fee is not only unwelcome but unfair,'' he said. ''That by some twisted logic it is more appropriate for the American people to bear the cost of the bailout rather than the industry that benefited from it, even though these executives are out there giving themselves huge bonuses.'' 
 Mr. Obama continued, ''What I say to these executives is this: Instead of sending a phalanx of lobbyists to fight this proposal or employing an army of lawyers and accountants to help evade the fee, I suggest you might want to consider simply meeting your responsibilities'' -- including by rolling back bonuses. 
 The proposed tax would apply to bank, thrift and insurance companies with more than $50 billion in assets and would start after June 30. It would not apply to certain holdings, like customers' insured savings, but to assets in risk-taking operations. The levy would raise an estimated $90 billion over 10 years, according to the White House. 
 But it would remain in force longer if all losses to the bailout fund, the Troubled Asset Relief Program, were not recovered after a decade. The Treasury now projects that the losses from the $700 billion loan program, which was created in October 2008, could reach $117 billion, about a third of the loss that it projected last summer -- an improved forecast that reflected the renewed strength on Wall Street. 
 The White House said that collecting $117 billion would take about 12 years, but Treasury officials said losses were likely to be smaller. Still, with postrecession deficits at levels unseen since World War II and Wall Street never broadly popular, the pressure on a future president and Congress to keep the tax in place is likely to be substantial. Administration officials did not outline any provision for having the tax expire once all the money is recouped.
 Big banks object that most of them already have repaid the government with interest. The administration, anticipating that argument, called its tax a ''financial crisis responsibility fee'' aimed at those institutions whose risk-taking caused the problem in the first place.
 The losses from the bailout fund are expected from money paid to rescue Chrysler and General Motors and the insurance giant American International Group, and from a program to help homeowners avert foreclosures. But big banks shared in the A.I.G. bailout, splitting about $60 billion to receive full repayment for their financial trades with the company.
 Mr. Obama's economic team began seeking a bank fee last August, even as the administration -- and in particular the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner -- was being attacked by critics on the left and right as too cozy with Wall Street. Criticism picked up last year after Mr. Geithner opposed an effort by the European Union to impose a global tax on financial transactions. 
 Mr. Geithner said such a tax would be passed through to customers. The administration now argues that big banks will not be able to pass on the costs of its levy without risking a loss of market share to rivals that are not subject to the tax.
 The proposal, which Mr. Obama will include in his budget in February, would require Congress's approval.
 Democrats said the tax had good prospects in a midterm election year. The White House believes Republicans are in a box, unable to oppose the tax without being cast as allies of fat-cat bankers. Also, the 2008 bailout program is less popular among Republican voters than among Democrats, polls show; the issue helped give rise to the conservative Tea Party Movement. 
 While Michael Steele, the Republican Party chairman, quickly condemned the proposal as ''Obama's savings tax,'' Congressional party leaders did not speak out or send the usual attack e-mail messages to reporters. 
 The delays inherent in the legislative process could give the banking lobby time to muster formidable opposition, especially in the Senate -- just as the industry has been able to stall and weaken the administration's initiative to tighten regulation of the financial system.
 But in such fights, smaller community banks are the more influential force, given their presence in nearly every lawmaker's district. By exempting smaller banks from the tax, the administration divided the industry lobby and left less popular big banks on their own. 
 Some bankers acknowledged that the tax might be acceptable if it headed off tougher measures, like a bonus tax. It also would not have a huge impact on the biggest firms' bottom lines. Still, lobbyists are mobilizing.
 ''This tax is strictly political,'' said Steve Bartlett, chief executive of the Financial Services Roundtable, which represents the largest banking, insurance and investment companies. 
 The tax would apply to about 50 companies and would impose the greatest burden on firms that rely less on customer deposits. Citigroup could face a $2.2 billion annual assessment, according to an analysis by Concept Capital in Washington; JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America might each pay close to $2 billion. Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley would also pay similarly high assessments. 
 ''The irony is it hurts the weaker banks more than the stronger banks,'' said Meredith Whitney, a prominent financial services analyst. ''To think that it won't come out of consumers and businesses is mistaken.''
 The tax would amount to about $1.5 million for every $1 billion in bank assets subject to the fee. It would apply to all of a company's assets except for what is known as a bank's Tier 1 capital, including common stock, or its insured deposits from savers, for which banks already pay a fee to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama with his economic team at the White House on Thursday. He said he planned to ''recover every single dime'' of bailout losses. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
An analyst, Meredith Whitney, said the tax would be passed on to consumers. Steve Bartlett, a lobbyist, called it ''strictly political.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FRED PROUSER/ REUTERS
MITCH DUMKE/REUTERS) (B4) CHART: WHAT THE NEW FEES MIGHT BE: The proposed new tax to recoup losses on the taxpayer bailout would apply to the biggest financial institutions, those with more than $50 billion in assets. Here are estimates of what the annual tax might be for some companies. According to the Treasury, these figures may overstate what the amounts might be when finally calculated. (Sources: Concept Capital/Washington Research Group
 S.E.C. documents) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BAILOUTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LOBBYING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); COMMUNITY BANKS (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); INSURANCE (71%); BUDGET DEFICITS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MEREDITH WHITNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



429 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 615 words

HEADLINE: Whose Bonuses Are They?

 BODY:
Maybe bankers do know a little bit about shame -- or at least about public opinion polls.
 Their objections have been muted to President Obama's decision to impose a fee on the country's largest banks, insurance companies and broker-dealers to recover some of the money spent bailing them out. And they are so panicked by talk in Congress about taxing their enormous bonuses (the industry is expected to reward itself with tens of billions of dollars this year) that they have decided not to take all of that money in cash. 
 Banks, instead, are bending over backward to ensure their windfalls fit the prescriptions of Kenneth Feinberg, the White House pay czar. The government's goal is to reduce incentives to reckless risk-taking. The bankers clearly just want to get the money any way they can. 
 JPMorgan Chase is scheduled to be the first to report its bonuses on Friday, and other big banks will be following suit beginning next week. Some are forcing their highest-performing executives to accept only stock shares. Others are conditioning payouts to future performance criteria. This is all good for the stability of the banking system -- where pay has typically been rigged to encourage high-risk, fast-reward schemes that paid bankers handsomely, regardless of the long-term performance of their investments.
 It is unlikely to quell the furies on Capitol Hill, where House Democrats on Thursday proposed imposing a 50 percent windfall tax on bankers' bonuses. And it is unlikely to satisfy taxpayers. It shouldn't. 
 For the sake of fairness, Congress should pass a one-off windfall tax on bonuses. After all, what profits the banks had in 2009 were largely underwritten by taxpayers, who pumped in billions of dollars of capital, covered losses from the collapse of the American International Group and guaranteed the debts of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. The Federal Reserve lent hundreds of billions against shoddy collateral that no one else would touch and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation guaranteed loans worth hundreds of billions more. 
 And for the sake of long-term financial stability, Congress should also pass President Obama's proposed big bank fee -- intended to recover, over 12 years, the $117 billion that the administration estimates it will spend on financial bailouts. That should discourage banks that are already too big from getting even bigger and posing a larger threat to the overall economy.
 Goldman Sachs, where compensation for 2009 is expected to near the record $20.2 billion it paid out in 2007, has said its top 30 executives will receive their entire bonuses in stock that cannot be sold for five years. It has assured regulators that cash will make up only a small share of bonuses for executives further down the ranks.
 Others are said to be reducing the size of their bonus pools. Morgan Stanley is reportedly conditioning the payout of bonuses to meeting a set of criteria for future performance. Bank of America plans to pay part of bonuses in some sort of chit that would fluctuate in value according to the company's performance.
 That's better than how the game has been played. But we would find it more persuasive if the boards of the banks disclosed clear guidelines on how performance-related bonuses are determined. And we would like to see clear clawback provisions to recoup bonuses if the investments they were based on tank in the future.
 Ideally, these provisions would be part of the reform of financial regulation winding its way too slowly through Congress. Congress should strengthen that legislation, and it should require the banks and bankers to send more money back to the public coffers from whence it came.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (77%); BAILOUT BONUSES (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (57%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (81%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (64%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (63%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (64%); 8685 (TSE) (64%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (81%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (81%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (81%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (64%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (63%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (63%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2010



430 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 890 words

PERSON: Michael Kaufman 

HEADLINE: Michael Kaufman, 71, Times Reporter

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Michael T. Kaufman, a former foreign correspondent, reporter and columnist for The New York Times who chronicled despotic regimes in Europe and Africa, the fall of Communism and the changing American scene for four decades, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 71.
 His death, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, was caused by pancreatic cancer, his wife, Rebecca, said. Mr. Kaufman lived in Manhattan. 
 A versatile, imaginative writer of seven books and thousands of articles, Mr. Kaufman covered wars, revolutions, politics and America's turbulent 1960s. But he also explored the foibles of raising children in a violent world, his father's years as a political prisoner in Poland and his family's escape from invading Nazis in World War II. 
 Taking after his boyhood hero, Jack London, he traveled widely as a correspondent, interviewing kings, presidents, dictators and the Dalai Lama. He accompanied mercenaries in Rhodesia; covered wars in Angola, Zaire, Ethiopia and Afghanistan; talked his way through roadblocks; befriended an Israeli secret agent; was once arrested at gunpoint; and documented the approaching death of Communism in Poland. 
 Newspapering was ideal for Mr. Kaufman. He was an insatiable schmoozer, loved to travel and wrote fast against a deadline. In 40 years with The Times, he was a typewriter-banging rewrite man, a metropolitan reporter, the newspaper's bureau chief in Africa, India, Canada and Poland, a deputy foreign editor, a correspondent in Albany and a columnist.
 Briefly in 1988 and 1989, and then regularly from 1992 to 1995, Mr. Kaufman wrote About New York, a twice-a-week column relating extraordinary tales of ordinary people: a crack addict transformed by the birth of a daughter, a Chinatown businessman opening a fortune-cookie factory, a gay couple celebrating 43 years together.
 He also wrote for The New York Times Magazine, notably a 1985 account of his 82-year-old father's return to Poland after 50 years in exile. For a decade after retiring in 1999, he wrote obituaries of world and national leaders.
 Mr. Kaufman's books included ''Mad Dreams, Saving Graces: Poland: A Nation in Conspiracy'' (1989), an examination of the country in its last years under the domination of the Soviet Union. He also wrote ''Soros: The Life and Times of a Messianic Billionaire'' (2003), an authorized biography of the investor George Soros, and, with Bernard Gwertzman, ''The Collapse of Communism'' (1991) and ''The Decline and Fall of the Soviet Empire'' (1992). 
 Michael Tyler Kaufman was born in Paris on March 23, 1938, the only child of Adam and Pauline Kaufman, who were Polish Jewish refugees. His mother was a teacher and his father an economist who had been imprisoned in Poland for nine years as a Communist revolutionary. When the Nazis invaded France in 1940, the family fled over the Pyrenees to Spain, and in 1941 sailed from Lisbon to New York.
 He grew up in Manhattan, a streetwise kid who spoke French and Polish and knew the back-alley shortcuts on the Upper West Side, the con games of Times Square and the pleasures of Coney Island, where he sold ice cream at 13. He graduated from the Bronx High School of Science in 1954 and City College in 1959. He taught school in Harlem for a few months but gave it up for journalism, becoming a copy boy at The Times in 1959.
 He married the former Rebecca Rose in 1960. Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons, Noah, of Manhattan, and Seth, of Brooklyn; a daughter, Susan Kaufman, of Los Angeles; and six grandchildren. 
 Mr. Kaufman covered Woodstock, the radical underground movement, the Attica prison riot and various campus rebellions. By 1973, he had written two books: ''Rooftops & Alleys: Adventures with a City Kid,'' and ''In Their Own Good Time,'' a witty divertissement on people, including witches, Hell's Angels and a topless cellist who played in a balloon over Central Park.
 From 1975 to 1979, he roamed Africa, covering wars, riots and liberation movements. He interviewed the dictators Idi Amin of Uganda, Mobuto Sese Seko of Zaire and Mengistu Haile Mariam of Ethiopia, and won a George Polk Award for his work. 
 ''Mike loved the unpredictability and rhythm of Africa,'' said John Darnton, a former fellow correspondent with The Times. ''He was good at talking his way through roadblocks and figuring how to get copy out.'' 
 In India from 1979 to 1982, Mr. Kaufman scoured the subcontinent for news and features, including a notable Times Magazine article on Mother Teresa, and covered conflicts and politics in Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan. He covered Canada from 1982 to 1984.
 His work in Poland, from 1984 to 1988, coincided with the dying years of Communism in Eastern Europe and focused on conflicts between the government of Gen. Wojciech Jaruzelski and the Solidarity trade union. It was also a deeply personal experience for Mr. Kaufman, whose articles on music, politics and the lives of ordinary people drew on Polish history and tradition.
 His last book, ''1968'' (2009), is a retrospective on that tumultuous year, taking in the Vietnam war, riots in New York, Paris, Prague, Chicago and Mexico City, and the assassinations of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and Senator Robert F. Kennedy. Reviewers called it an insightful, moving reminder of the fundamental importance of journalism.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael T. Kaufman in Darra, Pakistan, in 1980. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA KAUFMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (77%); CHILDREN (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (75%); JAIL SENTENCING (74%); DEATH & DYING (72%); REFUGEES (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (63%); CANCER (56%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (56%); COCAINE (50%)

GEORGE SOROS (55%); DALAI LAMA (55%); J P LONDON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) POLAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); AFRICA (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (88%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ANGOLA (79%); INDIA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%)

CATEGORY: News and News Media

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



431 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: Cadillac Plans

 BODY:
The agreement between the White House, Congressional leaders and labor unions over taxing high-priced health insurance policies is a reasonable solution to an issue that was threatening to derail health care reform. The agreement treats unionized workers far more favorably than nonunion workers, the price for the support of important Democratic constituencies. But it would preserve the tax's crucial role in slowing the rise in health care costs for decades to come.
 When the Senate voted for the tax on high-priced employer-sponsored health insurance policies -- ''Cadillac plans'' -- labor leaders and many House Democrats complained that the tax would penalize middle-class people who had plans that were hardly lavish. They much preferred the House approach: a so-called millionaire's tax, a surcharge on earnings above $1 million a year for couples. 
 A millionaire's tax may not survive the negotiations on a final bill, but Congress has to find money to pay for health insurance for millions of Americans. The agreement makes that more difficult because it is expected to reduce the money generated by the excise tax substantially from the original Senate bill. Rich Americans and the industries involved in health care should pick up much of the added burden. 
 The proposed excise tax on high-cost plans is the most significant measure in either bill to slow the relentless rise in health care spending. 
 HOW IT WORKS Many employers pay most of the premium for health coverage. Workers pick up the rest but pay no taxes on the employer's often-substantial contribution. That's why many unions have bargained hard for generous health coverage over the years, even if that meant forgoing a bigger pay raise.
 The new agreement would take away the tax advantage for a small portion of the health benefit by imposing a 40 percent tax on the amount by which the premiums for employer-sponsored health coverage exceed specified thresholds. That would be $24,000 a year for a family, starting in 2013. The tax on a $26,000 plan would be $800, or 40 percent of $2,000. The insurance company would pay the tax but would almost certainly pass it along to the employer and its employees.
 That $24,000 threshold, which was raised by $1,000 from the original Senate proposal, is well above the current average of $13,400 for a family plan. By 2013, more than 90 percent of all family plans are projected to still fall below the threshold. In the following years, the tax threshold would rise more slowly than the likely rate of inflation in medical costs, which could mean the plans of millions of workers -- a small minority of the work force -- would be subject to the tax in theory.
 Most likely, insurers will drop their premiums just below the threshold. They could do that by setting higher deductibles and co-payments, managing access to care more tightly, or reducing benefits. 
 WHY IT'S GOOD A vast majority of economists agree that the tax would be a valuable cost-control feature. In our largely fee-for-service system, doctors have an economic incentive to provide more services. With insurance covering most of the bill, neither patients nor doctors worry much about costs. Requiring workers to pay more out of pocket would force them and their doctors to think a lot more carefully about whether an expensive test or treatment is really necessary.
 Because the excise tax would be imposed on insurance companies within the health care system, the revenues it generates would grow at the rate of medical inflation; revenues from an income tax on the wealthy would probably grow more slowly.
 POTENTIAL HARM There is some risk -- nobody knows how large -- that higher deductibles and co-payments would discourage some people, especially the chronically ill, from seeking medical care that they need. Congress can avoid this tragic outcome by setting up a monitoring system to detect any emergence of harm and making a midcourse correction to protect the health of any groups that suffer adverse consequences.
 WILL EMPLOYEES RECOUP? Eminent economists -- and the official scorers at the Joint Committee on Taxation -- believe that as employers spend less on health benefits they will increase wages to continue to attract high-quality workers. Indeed, most of the money the tax is projected to generate would come from an anticipated increase in wages, rather than the tax itself. The theory is that employers don't care much whether they provide compensation in the form of health benefits or wages. 
 There is reason to worry that in a troubled economy, with unemployment high and employers scrambling to reduce costs, employers will simply pocket the savings. The new agreement protects unionized workers and state and local government employees by exempting their health plans from the tax for five years, until 2018. That gives the unions plenty of time -- probably more time than justified -- to negotiate new contracts and demand a rise in wages commensurate with any decline in health benefits. 
 The much larger number of nonunion workers would get no comparable protection. In fashioning a final bill, Congress should seek some way to pressure companies to convert their savings on health benefits into higher wages and monitor whether they do so. 
 MORE SENSIBLE TARGETING Many of the policies described as Cadillac plans are not costly because they provide lavish benefits but rather because they cover workers who are older and sicker than most, or who work in high-cost areas or in high-risk industries. 
 The agreement would raise the thresholds for plans covering workers who are disproportionately old or female or employed in a wide range of high-risk jobs. There would be a transition period for states where medical costs are high. These look like reasonable exceptions to ensure that the tax falls on truly generous plans.
 A vast majority of workers would not be affected by the proposed excise tax. Those that are hit should remember that the bulk of their health benefits would remain exempt from taxes -- an enormous subsidy from the taxpayer. For the sake of reining in costs and helping to pay for covering the uninsured, taxing high-priced plans is the right thing to do. 
 This editorial is a part of a comprehensive examination of the debate over health care reform. You can read all of these articles at: nytimes.com/healthcare2009.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INSURANCE POLICIES (90%); INSURANCE (89%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (89%); EMPLOYEE HEALTH PLANS (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); EXCISE TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); LABOR FORCE (77%); INFLATION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



432 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words

HEADLINE: Steep Job Losses Offer Hope For Fast Rebound

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and economics in his blog at nytimes.com/norris.

 BODY:
WILL labor markets in the United States remain weak for an extended period?
 For many economists, the answer is yes. They point to the ''jobless recoveries'' that followed the two previous recessions, in 1990-91 and 2001, and see no reason this recovery should be any different. That has led some to call for a new round of stimulus spending.
 ''Although some hiring was reported in a few Federal Reserve districts, labor market conditions remained generally weak,'' the Federal Reserve said this week in its Beige Book report on economic conditions around the country. 
 At the Federal Open Market Committee meeting last month, the minutes reported that participants ''generally expected unemployment to remain elevated for quite some time.''
 But history indicates there may be more hope for a fast rebound than is generally expected. The two jobless recoveries were preceded by recessions in which employment declines were modest. But after recessions involving a sharp drop in employment, the rebounds have been much stronger.
 Since 1950, there has never been an employment decline as deep or as long as the one that appears to have ended late last year. The number of jobs reported by the government's survey of employers fell for 22 consecutive months, after employment peaked in December 2007. That string ended in November with a tiny gain of 4,000 jobs, the Labor Department now estimates. But there was a renewed loss of jobs in December.
 There have been only five other periods since 1950 in which declines lasted as long as 10 consecutive months. As can be seen in the accompanying graphic, the job market came back quickly after three of them. In each of those cases, the loss of jobs during the decline was at least 2.3 percent of the work force.
 The decline in jobs was more modest in the two previous recessions -- 1.5 percent when the string of job losses ended in May 1991, and 1.7 percent when the string ended in May 2002, although there were further declines later in 2002 that brought the total loss to 2 percent. 
 By contrast, the number of jobs was down 5.2 percent from the level of December 2007 when the string ended in October. That fall is more than the 1991 and 2002 declines put together.
 The jobless recoveries were notable for the fact that unemployment had not risen especially high during the recessions, but climbed higher after the date later chosen by National Bureau of Economic Research as the end of the recession. 
 In the 1990-91 downturn, the highest unemployment level was 6.8 percent. But joblessness kept rising and peaked at 7.8 percent in June 1992, 15 months after the recession ended. Similarly, during the 2001 recession the unemployment rate rose to 5.5 percent. But more than a year after that, it topped out at 6.3 percent.
 In the other downturns, however, the unemployment rate peaked during or soon after the recession ended. 
 If jobs do recover more rapidly than many expect, it may reflect the fact that this recession was deepened by the credit crisis and near panic in autumn 2008, after Lehman Brothers failed. Many companies cut back on every expense they could, fearful both that business would dry up and that they would be unable to finance their operations. 
 The sheer scale of cuts may have left companies in need of more workers because the cuts were overdone. If so, they may need to hire even before there are strong signs of economic recovery.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: When Will Jobs Recover?: The longest and deepest string of monthly employment declines in the United States has ended at 22 months, with a 5.2 percent decline in jobs. In the past, long strings that cut employment by more than 2 percent have been followed by rapid recoveries, while those that reduced jobs by less have been followed by slower recoveries. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, via Haver Analytics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); MONETARY POLICY (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



433 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUSINESS BRIEFING LEGAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 121 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Regulators Close Three Small Banks

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Regulators closed three banks Friday as deteriorating loans continued to claim community and regional banks reeling from the financial crisis. The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation said that Town Community Bank and Trust of Antioch, Ill., and St. Stephen State Bank of St. Stephen, Minn., had failed. Other banks agreed to assume the deposits at those failed institutions. The Barnes Banking Company of Kaysville, Utah, was also seized, and the F.D.I.C. created a bridge bank to protect depositors as they move their accounts to other institutions. So far this year, four banks have failed, and 140 banks were closed in 2009. Last year had the highest annual level of failures since 1992 during the savings and loan crisis. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK FAILURES (91%); COMMUNITY BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SAVINGS & LOANS (88%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (88%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (88%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (92%); BARNES BANKING CO (72%); COMMUNITY BANK & TRUST INC (58%); COMMUNITY BANK & TRUST NA (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (92%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (92%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



434 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: Inflation Is Tame, but Spending Power Diminishes

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Inflation in the United States appeared to be largely in check, even as interest rates remain near zero and the government pumps billions of dollars into the economy, a Labor Department report indicated on Friday.
 Prices on a wide variety of goods, including airplane tickets and used cars, increased in December. Excluding food and energy prices, which tend to be volatile, the increase was steady at 0.1 percent in December. 
 Though prices are not rising rapidly, spending power is waning for many Americans: weekly paychecks, adjusted for inflation, fell 1.6 percent last year, the largest decline since 1990. 
 Adam G. York, an economist at Wells Fargo Securities, said smaller paychecks were likely to persist until the labor market showed signs of improvement. ''There's not going to be a lot of room for employees to seek higher wages -- they're struggling to hold onto their jobs,'' he said.
 Over all, prices in the United States are steadily increasing but by small amounts. Compared with December 2008, prices jumped 2.7 percent.
 The meager rise in the Consumer Price Index, a broad gauge of inflation, means that Federal Reserve policy makers will probably keep interest rates at their record lows when they meet later this month. 
 ''We don't have to worry about inflation suddenly becoming a big problem,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist for IHS Global Insight. ''It's going to stay quiet.''
 Consumer prices were higher in December, partly because of a 2.5 percent increase in the cost of used cars and trucks, which economists attributed to a dwindling supply of used cars.
 The government's popular cash-for-clunkers program last year resulted in the destruction of hundreds of thousands of vehicles that might have otherwise ended up on a used-car lot. In addition, rental car companies, which typically supply hundreds of thousands of cars to the used vehicle market, have been reluctant to replenish their fleets. 
 Increases in food and energy prices were also a factor in December. The cost of food rose 0.2 percent as prices climbed for cereals, baked goods, dairy products and fruits and vegetables. 
 Energy prices were relatively unchanged, with gasoline prices increasing 0.2 percent after a 6.4 percent increase in November.
 The weak housing market helped keep prices down. High vacancy rates and excess supply brought low rents to many Americans as realtors competed for customers. In December, rents remained unchanged. 
 Economists say inflation remains subdued because of high unemployment and large amounts of excess capacity in the economy. Machines sit idle or are running at reduced capacity at many factories across the country.
 A separate report by the Federal Reserve on Friday showed that capacity utilization -- a measure of how much of the nation's production capability is in use -- reached 72 percent in December, the highest level in a year. Yet that remained far below the historical average of 80.9.
 Over all, industrial production rose by a seasonally adjusted 0.6 percent, the Fed's report said, though that was driven largely by a surge in utility prices during a stretch of cold weather in December. 
 After growing at a brisk annual rate of 9 percent in the third quarter, the manufacturing sector may be losing some of its momentum. Manufacturing output fell by 0.1 percent in December, the report said. Fourth-quarter growth is expected to come in at a 5.7 percent annual rate, well above estimates for the broader economy's rate of expansion. 
 ''You're going to have a moderate recovery out of a very deep recession,'' said Daniel J. Meckstroth, chief economist for Manufacturers Alliance/MAPI. ''There's so much excess capacity in the industry that there's no constraint to growth, it's just a lack of orders.''
 Meanwhile, a barometer of consumer sentiment by the University of Michigan showed little change this month. The survey, based on interviews with 500 households, recorded some improvement in how Americans view their finances. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Kilpatrick of Wholesale Fuel delivered home heating oil in Framingham, Mass., last week. Energy prices rose in December. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHARTS: Consumer Prices: Percentage change, month to month, seasonally adjusted.
Industrial Production: Index of total industrial production, 2002 = 100, seasonally adjusted.
U.S. and major metropolitan areas (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)
 Capacity Utilization: Total industrial output as a percentage of capacity, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); USED CAR DEALERS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (67%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (66%); TRAVEL TICKETS (57%); CASH FOR CLUNKERS PROGRAM (50%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (50%); CAR RENTAL AGENCIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



435 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: What to Do About Bankers' Bonuses

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Whose Bonuses Are They?'' (editorial, Jan. 15):
 The question we should be asking is not ''whose bonuses are they?'' but rather, Why should bankers get one? What is so special about bankers and stockbrokers that they deserve additional billions of dollars in bonuses on top of their hefty salaries? Is it because they are smarter, work harder, contribute more to the society or simply because they generate wealth for their companies? 
 I find it astonishing, revolting and downright disgusting that after we bail them out for contributing to our dire economic situation, they have the audacity to reward billions' worth of bonuses once again! 
 While I agree with the notion that the White House should ''impose a fee on the country's largest banks, insurance companies and broker-dealers to recover some of the money spent bailing them out,'' I will go a step further and advocate that our government prevent them altogether from dishing out a single bonus dollar till they pay every cent they owe us.
 Lastly, if we think of our wealth as a pie, then the more money these bankers make, the more pieces of pie they take from us! This is indeed capitalism at its worst, and we should seriously think about revising it!
 Michael Hadjiargyrou Stony Brook, N.Y., Jan. 15, 2010
 To the Editor: 
 You comment on the bonus issue, how it was handled in the past, and some of what is happening now. There is another piece to this picture your editorial didn't mention. 
 Americans believe in fair play. Apparently, since this isn't happening with the banking industry, a movement is gaining momentum, and people are moving their money out of the big banks to community banks. 
 The banks may fear what in time will come through Congress (ever so slowly), but in this case it might turn out that the power of the people will prevail through a novel route -- taking their business elsewhere.
 Diana Mandell Bellevue, Wash., Jan. 15, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Let's let them have their bonuses and tax them at 90 percent.
 Joan K. Davidson New York, Jan. 15, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Wall St. Ethos Under Scrutiny at a Hearing'' (Dealbook column, front page, Jan. 14): 
 The leaders of our biggest banks, to the extent that they reluctantly acknowledge any responsibility for the financial catastrophe that has engulfed so many, speak euphemistically of a ''failure of risk management.'' 
 But this is no mere operational or structural weakness of those institutions that can be repaired by making adjustments to their organizational frameworks or their patterns of compensation. Rather, the underlying cause of this crisis is to be found in the character of the men and women who lead these institutions and in the nature of the corporate culture that reigns at each of them.
 The ''failure of risk management'' that precipitated our financial crisis consisted of nothing other than the willingness and readiness -- indeed, the eagerness -- to allow greed to strangle both prudence and morality.
 George I. Gordon Westfield, N.J., Jan. 14, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Tax Them Both'' (editorial, Jan. 13) and ''Questions for the Big Bankers'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 13):
 At some obscure point in my nearly four score life span, the banks have transmuted from being the lubrication system for the engine of our economy to being treated like the engine itself. How did we let this happen? 
 The banks create nothing, yet they siphon off significant amounts of wealth that could be put to better use in creating a more just and valid society.
 Ray Nord Naples, Fla., Jan. 13, 2010
 To the Editor:
 The real motivation of the actions that bankers and brokers took that led to the meltdown is simple. They got rich, and they didn't break any laws. So if we don't want them to do it again, the only alternative is to change the law! 
 All the posturing and apologies are just puffery. There will always be people who will jump at the chance to get rich without breaking any laws. 
 Marc Auslander Millwood, N.Y., Jan. 13, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Bankers Without a Clue'' (column, Jan. 15):
 Paul Krugman's remarks about ignoring the bankers' recommendations on reorganizing Wall Street suggest a corollary. We could classify earnings for tax purposes as ''creating wealth'' or ''gathering wealth.'' Those who gather wealth would be taxed harder because we want to push our economy to be more productive and creative.
 Nick Radonic Rockville, Md., Jan. 15, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT A. DI IESO JR.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); COMMUNITY BANKS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); INSURANCE (68%); RISK MANAGEMENT (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



436 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: 99.5 FM, Where the Board Meetings Make the Broadcasts Seem Tame

BYLINE: By MICHAEL POWELL

 BODY:
Comrades, comrades. 
 Alex Steinberg, a late-middle-aged self-described revolutionary Socialist in a pullover sweater, attempted to bring to order to the board of WBAI, also known as ''free-speech radio.'' And even better known as New York City's last FM outpost of lefty, vegan, hip-hop, poetry-reading and -- often but not invariably -- conspiracy-minded radio.
 His efforts did not go terribly well.
 ''You're a reactionary fraud, Alex!'' 
 ''Why don't you resign, you scab?''
 Mr. Steinberg held the microphone on Wednesday evening, a bemused smile frozen in place. He waited out the hecklers, not a few of whom were his fellow board members, and turned to the next order of business: whether to seat a newly elected member, Lynne F. Stewart. Ms. Stewart is a well-known radical lawyer -- or rather was a lawyer until she was convicted of material support for terrorism, disbarred and packed off to a federal prison. Such credentials are like catnip to WBAI voters, who elected her last autumn before she began serving her sentence. Some board members worry that for WBAI, which is forever on the edge of insolvency, not to mention anarchy, an imprisoned member is of little utility.
 For Stewart partisans, however, such talk is profoundly counter-revolutionary. So Nia Bediako, a board member, dressed down the chairman, Mitchel Cohen, who opposed seating Ms. Stewart. ''You very insensitively, very unprogressively, said perhaps we could meet in prison,'' said Ms. Bediako, her voice dipped in an inkwell of disdain. ''This from a so-called revolutionary!'' 
 For 50 years, WBAI, at 99.5 FM, has occupied a wavelength all its own as one of the more eccentric outposts of countercultural politics and arts in the nation. The station's license is controlled (that being a loose term of art) by the Pacifica Foundation, which was founded in 1946 by Lewis Hill, a wealthy conscientious objector during World War II. Pacifica also owns four other radio stations, in Washington, Houston, Los Angeles and Berkeley, Calif.
 WBAI is where George Carlin in 1973 uttered ''seven words you can never say on television,'' not one of which can be printed in this newspaper. The F.C.C. fined the station, and was upheld in a case that went to the Supreme Court.
 This is where Seymour Hersh broke the story of the My Lai massacre, and where the station's reporters dug deep into the Iran-Contra scandal of the 1980s. It is where Allen Ginsberg and Abbie Hoffman exchanged howls and where international celebrities once pulled off a four-day, round-the-clock, reading of ''War and Peace.'' 
 Margot Adler is one of many WBAI alumni who have moved over to National Public Radio. ''It was a wild smorgasbord, from politics to parapsychology to psychology to feminism,'' Ms. Adler recalled this week. ''And it created community on the air in a way that nothing does anymore.''
 WBAI still produces and broadcasts innovative programming from its cramped studios on Wall Street. ''Democracy Now!,'' an investigative news program that was born at WBAI and is broadcast weekdays at 8 a.m., is now carried by well over 100 radio and public-access television stations. Its co-host, Amy Goodman, and WBAI's senior national correspondent, Robert Knight, have each won mainstream journalism's highest honors for reporting from Indonesia, Panama and Nigeria.
 And yet, WBAI has fallen into a trough in the past decade. It has suffered management coups and countercoups, and assailed some of its own journalists as running dogs. (The descriptive language can tend toward early Lenin.) A governing structure that Mr. Knight describes as ''so-called democracy,'' controlled by elected boards steeped in political and ethnic sectarianism, has threatened to extinguish what made the station unique.
 WBAI is awash in debt. Before Pacifica imposed new managers last year, the station had fallen so far behind on rent for its transmitter atop the Empire State Building that it nearly went off the air.
 Even staying on the air -- on a coveted spot at the center of an FM dial -- does not guarantee a mass audience.
 Doug Henwood is the host of a weekly economics program, ''Behind the News,'' but he does not pretend that his show is widely heard. ''If you look at the Arbitron numbers, there are fewer than 1,000 listeners in some hours,'' he said. ''You can stand on a soapbox in Times Square and get more listeners.''
 The median age of the audience is 62, station managers say, and 65 percent are white. Gray hair, albeit pulled back in ponytails, predominated at the board meeting in a hall in Downtown Brooklyn, as did Chilean sweaters and Palestinian scarves. A few of those in the audience kept their eyes buried in history books, looking up only to sigh, while others knitted as all hell broke loose.
 The effect was like wandering into a dysfunctional family at Thanksgiving. Everyone seems to have known everyone too long; the backbiting never stopped. 
 ''He's C.I.A., you know that?''
 ''She's a Stalinist!''
 Michael Vincent Crea held aloft a cardboard sign celebrating Ms. Stewart, and periodically shouted about totalitarians. At that, Mr. Cohen, the chairman, would turn around to Mr. Crea (pronouncing the name Cray) and implore, ''Please shut up!''
 Mr. Crea, in turn, would stamp his feet and scream: ''It's Cree-a! Cree-a! I've told you this a thousand times. CREE-A!''
 Danny Schechter, who has worked in mainstream journalism and at WBAI, adopts an anthropologist's detachment. ''I wouldn't call it a collective,'' he said. ''I'd call it a collection.''
 Mr. Cohen, a poet, describes himself as ''independently poor.'' He is something like a voice of moderation, in that he wants the station to feature more music and humor, and favors seating board members who are not in prison. 
 ''They put forth a proposal for a Rube Goldberg scheme where they would get information to Lynne Stewart in prison and delay decisions a few months while she ponders it,'' he said. 
 Mr. Cohen also embraces 9/11 conspiracy theory, or the moderate wing of that movement, anyway. He draws a line at those who believe that the planes that hit the World Trade Center towers were holograms. ''The 9/11 stuff was our fastest seller during the pledge drives,'' he noted.
 Wednesday's meeting did not settle the Stewart question, but it tarried late into the night. Robert's Rules of Order was a fetishistic text, embraced and ignored. (''Lisa, you are out of order.'' ''Point of order, Mitch -- this is nothing but a fascist dictatorship!'')
 When the treasurer acknowledged a typographic error in a number in a financial report, Mimi Rosenberg, an on-air host and a housing lawyer, erupted.
 ''You've got a C.F.O. who doesn't proofread?'' she yelled. ''You are a backward, reactionary fraud!''
 WBAI employs two hulking, tattooed bouncers to keep order, although neither man was so foolish as to give in to incessant demands to evict this member or that. As the yelling reached a particular keening cacophony, the more hulking of the two whistled and demanded a cease-fire: ''You should call a time out and every one of you should go to the bathroom and chill out.''
 For a moment, the room fell into something like decorum. Then the revolutionary ruckus swelled anew.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Saturday about a debate by the board of WBAI, New York City's countercultural radio station, over whether to seat a new member, Lynne F. Stewart -- the radical lawyer imprisoned for aiding terrorism -- referred imprecisely to Danny Schechter, who said of WBAI: ''I wouldn't call it a collective. I'd call it a collection.'' Although he has produced documentaries that were broadcast on WBAI, and has often appeared on air, he has never been on the staff of the station.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: WBAI board meetings are often contentious. One faction, above, wanted to seat Lynne F. Stewart, the imprisoned radical. A member belittled the chairman, Mitchel Cohen, near left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAIL SENTENCING (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); SENTENCING (72%); POLITICS (72%); PRISONS (72%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); HIP HOP CULTURE (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); WORLD WAR II (60%); VIETNAM WAR (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



437 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 337 words

HEADLINE: Catching Up

 BODY:
At the start of 2008, all was going according to Marcia Bladen's plans. She was earning enough as an administrative assistant at Time Warner to support her young son and, at night, was working on a master's degree in community health. In time, she was expecting to get a second master's, in clinical psychology, and open a rehabilitation center. She was not expecting to lose her job. 
 When she did, in February 2008, unemployment benefits kept food on the table, and an understanding landlord let her accrue arrears while she looked for work and stayed in class. But by the time she found a job, as a teller at Pay-O-Matic, she was six months behind on rent. ''I recovered quickly,'' she said, ''but not quickly enough.''
 Determined to pay off her arrears, Ms. Bladen made small dents in the sum when she could. But with her take-home pay lower than what she earned at her previous position, progress was slow-going. In the fall of 2009, she decided to move. She found a more affordable apartment in East Flatbush but couldn't pay for the move. Community Service Society, one of seven agencies supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, drew $1,700 from the fund for her first month's rent and security deposit, and another $598 for moving expenses.
 Next month, Ms. Bladen expects to make her first considerable payment toward her arrears. ''It will feel good to catch up,'' she said.
 Donations to The Times's Neediest Cases Fund go to seven charities: The Children's Aid Society; Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; The Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York; Catholic Charities, Diocese of Brooklyn and Queens; The Community Service Society of New York; The Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and UJA-Federation of New York. 
 To help, please send a check to: The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund, 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. You may also call (800) 381-0075 and use a credit card, or you may donate at: www.nycharities.org/neediest. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHARITIES (89%); RELIGION (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (75%); CHILDREN (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PSYCHOLOGY (56%)

COMPANY: PAY-O-MATIC CORP (70%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (86%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



438 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey Has Settled With a College It Sued

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
The embattled president of Stevens Institute of Technology, Harold J. Raveche, will step down in July, the college said Friday. And under the terms of a settlement ending a lawsuit by the State of New Jersey that questioned his $1.1 million salary, the institute said it had accepted extensive governance changes that would stiffen oversight of its financial management. 
 Dr. Raveche will be paid his salary, which exceeds those earned by the presidents of Harvard, Princeton and M.I.T., for a year after he leaves office July 1, Attorney General Anne Milgram said. And under the terms of his contract, Dr. Raveche will be compensated as a consultant through June 2014, she said.
 Ms. Milgram filed the sweeping civil lawsuit against Stevens in September, accusing Dr. Raveche and the institute's chairman, Lawrence T. Babbio Jr., of financial negligence and mismanagement.
 The lawsuit accused Dr. Raveche of plundering the endowment and receiving $1.8 million in illegal low-interest loans for vacation homes, half of which were later forgiven. It also accused Stevens of using multiple sets of books to hide its deteriorating financial condition.
 Stevens sought to have the lawsuit dismissed and to have court proceedings sealed, but never answered the state's allegations point by point. 
 Prosecutors and Stevens lawyers negotiated the settlement this month, in Ms. Milgram's final weeks in office, her aides said. Governor-elect Christopher J. Christie, who takes office Tuesday, has nominated the Essex County prosecutor, Paula Dow, as the state's new attorney general.
 The settlement fell short of many of the demands in the New Jersey complaint, which included repayment to Stevens of ''unreasonable and improper'' compensation payments made to Dr. Raveche, and the removal of Mr. Babbio as board chairman. Under the settlement, Mr. Babbio, a former Verizon president, will keep his post for about three years.
 Still, Dr. Raveche must repay the approximately $750,000 balance on the mortgages by July 2014, prosecutors said.
 In a joint statement, Mr. Raveche and Mr. Babbio said Stevens was ''well positioned to achieve ever-higher levels of greatness among the nation's and world's research universities.''
 In a separate statement, Dr. Raveche said the formal settlement did not require his resignation. ''I have made this decision in the best interest of Stevens,'' he said.
 Jack B. Siegel, a Chicago lawyer who follows nonprofit cases, praised some elements of the settlement, including that ''the person who is the lightning rod isn't going to be there anymore,'' and that the governance changes coming to Stevens were ''impressive.''
 But he said it was unfortunate that the settlement included no admission of wrongdoing by Dr. Raveche or Stevens. 
 ''That's troubling,'' Mr. Siegel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: PAULA T DOW (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



439 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Crunch Time: Selling Tales Of the Great Downturn

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
The new George Clooney film, ''Up in the Air,'' hit a nerve with its portrayal of an unmoored corporate executioner who makes his living by firing people. Now several writers and their publishers are hoping to catch the same wave with a cluster of forthcoming memoirs and novels that describe the fallout of losing a job, losing a house or losing an investment account.
 Call it layoff lit. Next month will bring ''The Bag Lady Papers,'' a memoir by Alexandra Penney, the former editor in chief of Self magazine, who said she had lost all her savings to Bernard L. Madoff. In May Dominique Browning, the former editor of House & Garden, has a memoir, ''Slow Love: How I Got Kicked Off the Fast Track, Put My Pajamas On for a Year & Found Happiness.'' 
 On the fictional front, Janelle Brown, an author whose first novel chronicled the lives of several boom-time Silicon Valley characters, has another coming in June, ''This Is Where We Live,'' that opens with a 30-something artsy couple in Los Angeles on the brink of losing their home -- after their adjustable-rate mortgage adjusts. T. M. Shine, who was laid off from his job as a feature writer for City Link, a weekly magazine in Florida, has a September publication date for his novel, ''Nothing Happens Until It Happens to You,'' which he originally intended as a memoir about being fired.
 These books offer a personal flip side to the rash of titles that have taken a more reported, historical view of the financial crisis, examining the collapse of various investment banks (''House of Cards'' by William D. Cohan), the role of government (''In Fed We Trust'' by David Wessel) or the big picture (''The Ascent of Money'' by Niall Ferguson).
 But the publishers also hope that readers will view these new memoirs and novels as a timely addition to a longstanding genre: books about starting over and second acts.
 ''I think there's this perennial promise that we all have trouble believing, but always turns out to be true, which is that what's out there always holds more promise than we can imagine,'' said Kristine Puopolo, a senior editor at Doubleday. That company published ''Cherries in Winter,'' a memoir by Suzan Colon, a laid-off editor from O magazine who interwove reflections on frugal, more mindful living with stories from her own past, as well as recipes and remembrances from her family. ''We don't want it to happen to us,'' Ms. Puopolo said. ''But you can kind of live it vicariously through somebody else.''
 Ms. Browning, 54, who was editor at House & Garden for 12 years, applauded the string of books examining the personal effects of the financial downturn. ''I think it's terrific that there are books coming out about this,'' she said. ''We need to focus on the human toll this is taking,'' she noted, adding, ''It's a very human conversation about depression, loss of self, loss of pride and loss of bearings, and those are individual stories.'' 
 Some of these books have been written by authors who held very lucrative positions and had the resources to help them through their financial downfalls. Some booksellers wonder if the average reader will be able to empathize with them.
 Indeed, early in Ms. Browning's memoir, she contemplates a trip to Brooks Brothers to buy a pair of pajamas for better lounging. And in ''The Bag Lady Papers,'' Ms. Penney writes of having to sell two of her three homes and describes how a friend takes her to the Four Seasons Grill Room for lunch to commiserate.
 ''I don't know that a lot of people are going to be relating to a Dominique Browning or an Alexandra Penney,'' said Karen Corvello, adult buyer for R. J. Julia Booksellers in Madison, Conn. ''A segment would, but not that broad a segment.''
 Lauren LeBlanc, a senior editor at Atlas & Company, who edited Ms. Browning's book, said that even if readers were in different financial straits, they should be able to relate to the shock of losing a career. ''Obviously she's not destitute, like a lot of people end up being,'' Ms. LeBlanc said of Ms. Browning. ''But at the same time a lot of the experiences she goes through are something that a lot of people will feel sympathetic to.'' 
 Loss is loss, said Ellen Archer, publisher of Hyperion, the unit of Disney that is releasing ''The Bag Lady Papers.'' Even a person who has a lot of money to begin with suffers when it is gone, and goes through a lifestyle re-evaluation.
 ''It makes you think, 'What if that happened to me? What really is important to me?' '' Ms. Archer said. ''I think it's a very relatable question.''
 Some booksellers suggested that for those who were actually living through the experience of layoffs or the loss of a home -- or who had friends or family members who were -- reading about it might not be their first choice for leisure time. 
 ''I would say that more readers are looking for something to not think about such things,'' said Rona Brinlee, owner of the BookMark, an independent bookstore in Atlantic Beach, Fla. ''For the moment, our customers are looking for good literature and escape.''
 So far, the appeal of memoirs of the Great Recession has been limited. According to Nielsen BookScan, which tracks about 70 percent of sales, ''Cherries in Winter,'' which was published in November, has sold just 3,000 copies. Ms. Puopolo noted that ''Cherries'' had been selected by Indiebound, a trade group representing independent booksellers, as a notable book for January. 
 Some publishers figure that novels with recession-resonant plot points are another way to lure readers. ''We thought there would be a lot of books out that were nonfiction,'' said John Glusman, who edited ''Nothing Happens Until It Happens to You'' for Shaye Areheart Books, a Random House imprint. 
 Mr. Shine said he enjoyed the freedom of writing fiction. When he originally conceived a nonfiction account, he had planned to track the post-layoff lives of colleagues who also lost their jobs. But once he began writing fiction, ''I could decide their futures rather than waiting to see how it would pan out.''
 Then again, his publisher ''could have said 'I want to turn it into a musical,' and I would have said, 'Hold on, I'll get my harmonica,' '' noted Mr. Shine, who has written two nonfiction books. ''I was just so desperate.''
 Ms. Brown, who has been a freelance contributor to The New York Times, started out writing a novel about a couple trying to buy a house. But after writing about 120 pages and showing them to her editor, Julie Grau, publisher of Spiegel & Grau, another Random House imprint, both agreed that it wasn't working, and that times had changed. So Ms. Brown began a new novel about a couple in the process of losing a house.
 As for other memoirs and novels mining the current economic climate, Ms. Brown said she wasn't the least bit surprised. ''We live in an age where things get from news feed to news story to book to movie very, very quickly,'' she said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dominique Browning, former editor of House & Garden, has written ''Slow Love,'' a memoir of losing her job and what happened afterward. (She was pleasantly surprised.) It comes out in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%)

PERSON: GEORGE CLOONEY (73%); BERNARD MADOFF (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (55%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



440 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: Plan Would Allow SUNY And CUNY to Set Tuition

BYLINE: By JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson proposed on Friday that the State University of New York and the City University of New York be allowed to set their own tuition rates, a plan that would end a longstanding policy under which tuition increases are determined by the State Legislature. 
 The measure will be part of his budget proposal on Tuesday, according to a statement from Mr. Paterson. 
 ''Currently, Albany micromanages everything from the chalk campuses purchase to the cost of tuition that students pay,'' Mr. Paterson said. ''This burdensome overregulation threatens the ability of our public higher education systems to promote economic development and successfully adapt to changing educational and fiscal circumstances.''
 If the change, which is likely to prompt debate, is adopted, the boards of SUNY and CUNY would be allowed to increase tuition incrementally, but no more than 2.5 times the rolling five-year average of the Higher Education Price Index, an inflation index that calculates the cost of staff salaries, maintenance, library books and other expenses. The index rose 2.3 percent last year and 5 percent the year before.
 The boards would also be free to set different tuition rates for academic programs and campuses throughout the system. 
 The governor's proposal was welcomed by the chancellor of CUNY, Matthew Goldstein, and the chancellor of SUNY, Nancy L. Zimpher.
 ''We feel that tuition will be fair and equitable, and it won't be subject to indiscriminate hikes,'' Dr. Zimpher said in an interview on Friday. ''We will be comparing ourselves to other higher education institutions so that we're marketable.''
 Dr. Zimpher said that certain high-demand programs like business, information technology and engineering could command higher tuition. ''It has to do with program competitiveness, demand and career opportunities,'' she said. She added that tuition percentage increases would be kept in the single digits.
 ''If you take this formula, it would be capped at 10 percent, and I can't imagine we would have to do that,'' she said.
 Mr. Goldstein said in a statement, ''Budget flexibility will enable the university to strengthen its responsiveness to the changing needs of students and to the changing economy.''
 The yearly tuition for New York State residents at SUNY is $5,070. At CUNY, it is $4,600 for state residents. 
 Marissa Shorenstein, a spokeswoman for Mr. Paterson, said that the change would put a matter of policy back in the hands of the universities it affects.
 ''This is to reform the entire system and to give SUNY and CUNY the flexibility they need to become models of excellence,'' Ms. Shorenstein said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TUITION FEES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); BUDGETS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); GOVERNORS (79%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); INFLATION (77%); ENGINEERING (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



441 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: Profit in 2009 Is $11.7 Billion For JPMorgan

BYLINE: By ERIC DASH

 BODY:
JPMorgan Chase kicked off what is expected to be a robust -- and controversial -- reporting season for the nation's banks on Friday with news that its profit and pay for 2009 soared. 
 In a remarkable rebound from the depths of the financial crisis, JPMorgan earned $11.7 billion last year, more than double its profit in 2008, and generated record revenue. The bank earned $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter alone. 
 Those cheery figures were accompanied by news that JPMorgan had earmarked $26.9 billion to compensate its workers, much of which will be paid out as bonuses. That is up about 18 percent, with employees, on average, earning about $129,000. 
 Workers in JPMorgan's investment bank, on average, earned roughly $380,000 each. Top producers, however, expect to collect multimillion-dollar paychecks.
 The strong results -- coming a day after the Obama administration, to howls from Wall Street, announced plans to tax big banks to recoup some of the money the government expects to lose from bailing out the financial system -- underscored the gaping divide between the financial industry and the many ordinary Americans who are still waiting for an economic recovery.
 Over the next week or so, Bank of America, Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley are expected to report similar surges in pay when they release their year-end numbers. 
 But not all the news from JPMorgan Chase was good. Signs of lingering weakness in its consumer banking business unnerved Wall Street and drove down its share price along with those of other banks. 
 Chase's consumer businesses are still hemorrhaging money. Chase Card Services, its big credit card unit, lost $2.23 billion in 2009 and is unlikely to turn a profit this year. Chase retail services eked out a $97 million profit for 2009, though it posted a $399 million loss in the fourth quarter. To try to stop the bleeding, the bank agreed to temporarily modify about 600,000 mortgages. Only about 89,000 of those adjustments have been made permanent. In a statementon Friday, Jamie Dimon, the chairman and chief executive of JPMorgan, said that bank ''fell short'' of its earnings potential and remained cautious about 2010 considering that the job and housing markets continued to be weak. 
 ''We don't have visibility much beyond the middle of this year and much will depend on how the economy behaves,'' Michael J. Cavanagh, the bank's finance chief, said in a conference call with journalists. Across the industry, analysts expect investment banking revenue to moderate this year and tighter regulations to dampen profit. As consumers and businesses continue to hunker down, lending has also fallen. 
 Just as it did throughout 2009, JPMorgan Chase pulled off a quarterly profit after the strong performance of its investment bank helped offset large losses on mortgages and credit cards. The bank set aside another $1.9 billion for its consumer loan loss reserves -- a hefty sum, but less than in previous periods. 
 That could be a sign that bank executives are more comfortable that the economy may be turning a corner. The bank has now stockpiled more than $32.5 billion to cover future losses. Still, Mr. Dimon warned that the economy was still too fragile to declare that the worst was over, though he hinted that things might stabilize toward the middle of the year. ''We want to see a real recovery, just in case you have another dip down,'' he said in a conference call with investors. Earlier, Mr. Cavanagh said that the bank hoped to restore the dividend to 75 cents or $1 by the middle of 2010, from 20 cents at present. 
 Over all, JPMorgan said 2009 net income rose to $11.7 billion, or $2.26 a share. That compares with a profit of $5.6 billion, or $1.35 a share, during 2008, when panic gripped the industry. Revenue grew to a record $108.6 billion, up 49 percent. 
 JPMorgan has emerged from the financial crisis with renewed swagger. Unlike several other banking chiefs, Mr. Dimon has entered 2010 with his reputation relatively unscathed. Indeed, he is regarded on Wall Street and in Washington as a pillar of the industry. On Wednesday on Capitol Hill, during a hearing of the government panel charged with examining the causes of the financial crisis, Mr. Dimon avoided the grilling given to Lloyd C. Blankfein, the head of Goldman Sachs. Mr. Dimon was also the only banker to publicly oppose the administration's proposed tax on the largest financial companies. 
 Moreover, JPMorgan appears have taken advantage of the financial crisis to expand its consumer lending business and vault to the top of the investment banking charts, including a top-flight ranking as a fee-earner. Over all, the investment bank posted a $6.9 billion profit for 2009 after a $1.2 billion loss in 2008 when the bank took huge charges on soured mortgage investments and buyout loans.
 The division posted strong trading revenue, though well short of the blow-out profits during the first half of the year when the markets were in constant flux. The business of arranging financing for corporations and advising on deals fell off in the last part of the year, though Mr. Cavanagh said there were signs of a rebound in the first two weeks of January. 
 As the investment bank's income surged, the amount of money set aside for compensation in that division rose by almost one-third, to about $9.3 billion for 2009. But JPMorgan officials cut the portion of revenue they put in the bonus pool by almost half from last year. 
 The division, which employs about 25,000 people, reduced the share of revenue going to the compensation pool, to 37 percent by midyear, from 40 percent in the first quarter. The share fell to 11 percent in the fourth quarter because of the impact of the British bonus tax and the greater use of stock awards. 
 Bank officials have said that they needed to reward the firm's standout performance, but to show restraint before a public outraged over banker pay. Other Wall Street firms may make similarly large adjustments. 
 Chase's corporate bank, meanwhile, booked a $1.3 billion profit this year, even as it recorded losses on commercial real estate loans. Still, that represents a smaller portion of the bank's overall balance sheet compared with many regional and community lenders. JPMorgan's asset management business and treasury services units each booked similar profits for 2009. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jamie Dimon, chief executive of JPMorgan Chase, said the bank ''fell short'' of its earnings potential. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE FALKENBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Jamie Dimon, head of JPMorgan, opposed the proposed tax on the largest financial companies, the only chief to do so publicly. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAY MALLIN/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); RETAIL BANKING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); JOURNALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (98%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); CHASE CARD SERVICES INC (53%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (98%); JPM (LSE) (98%); 8634 (TSE) (98%); GS (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (98%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (98%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (98%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (98%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%)

PERSON: JAMES DIMON (79%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



442 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 499 words

HEADLINE: Mortgage Program Cuts Payments for More Borrowers

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
Mortgage payments have been permanently lowered for more than 66,000 borrowers under the Obama administration's $75 billion program to protect homeowners from foreclosure, according to new federal data released on Friday. 
 The figure represented ''a significant acceleration'' in the rate of loan modifications, officials said, but it remained a minuscule number compared with the administration's goal of permanently reducing monthly payments for three million to four million homeowners by 2012 by giving cash incentives to mortgage lenders. 
 The Home Affordable Modification Program, announced in February, has been widely viewed as a disappointment. Critics say the program has prompted some Americans to cling to a false hope that they can keep their homes when they should be moving to less expensive rental housing. 
 Even so, officials from the Treasury Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development said they were moving aggressively to make permanent loan modifications that had been granted on a trial basis.
 As of the end of December, they said, more than 853,696 homeowners were actively in the modification program, with a median payment reduction of at least $500 a month. The figure includes 787,231 trial modifications and 66,465 permanent modifications. Of those who have received trial modifications, 46,056 have been offered permanent loan reductions and are ''awaiting only the borrower's signature,'' officials said.
 ''Treasury is committed to working with servicers and borrowers to sustain this improved pace,'' said Phyllis Caldwell, the chief of the Treasury's homeownership preservation office.
 In the last month, officials said, representatives of the federal government visited the offices of loan servicers, making sure that lenders made prompt decisions on trial modifications for borrowers who had submitted their paperwork. More than a million borrowers had received modification offers so far, they said. 
 Along with mortgage modifications, the program, also known as Making Home Affordable, includes support for helping Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac to keep interest rates low, refinancing mortgages, providing tax credits for housing development and giving aid to state and local housing finance agencies. 
 Nearly four million homes have been lost to foreclosures, short sales or deeds in lieu of foreclosure in the last two years, and another 15 million homeowners are under water, meaning they owe their lenders more than their home is worth, according to estimates by Moody'sEconomy.com.
 All of the loan modifications under the program have involved reductions in the interest rate. In 43.2 percent of the cases, the term of the loan has been extended, according to the new data, but only 26.6 percent of the modifications have involved a reduction in the principal of the loan. 
 The administration has been cautious about seeking to write down loan balances, a step that is far more expensive than merely reducing interest rates. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Homeowners learning of ways to modify their mortgages at a program by the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL NAGLE/GETTY IMAGES)
 A mortgage counselor, Latonya Patterson, facing camera, hugging a homeowner whose monthly payment was lowered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS HONDROS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMEOWNERS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); MORTGAGE SERVICING (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); MORTGAGE RATES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); CITIES (53%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



443 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Campaign for Senate Candidate in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By KATIE ZEZIMA and JEFF ZELENY; Katie Zezima reported from Boston and Jeff Zeleny from Washington. Peter Baker contributed reporting.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
In a last-ditch effort to avert a debacle for the Democrats, the White House announced that President Obama would campaign here on Sunday for Martha Coakley, the Democratic Senate candidate, amid growing signs that the race for Edward M. Kennedy's Senate seat has become too close to call. 
 With a new Suffolk University/7 News poll showing the race in a virtual tie, the announcement is fraught with political peril for Mr. Obama -- particularly if Ms. Coakley loses the seat to the Republican, State Senator Scott Brown. Nonetheless, the president's advisers concluded that Mr. Obama's fortunes were already tied to the outcome of the race, so there was no reason to keep him away from Massachusetts. 
 The special election for the seat is on Tuesday. Several polls in recent days indicated that Ms. Coakley was losing an earlier lead, and the Suffolk poll showed Mr. Brown with 50 percent of the vote and Ms. Coakley with 46 percent, a result within the poll's four percentage point margin of sampling error.
 Mr. Obama has already urged Democrats to the polls in a video message and recorded telephone messages. But with his principal domestic policy initiative at stake -- Mr. Brown has already said he would be the 41st and crucial vote against the health care bill -- the president decided to risk embarrassment and hit the stump.
 The president decided Friday to go to Massachusetts after Ms. Coakley called his senior adviser, David Axelrod. Mr. Axelrod told reporters that Mr. Obama would make the case that Ms. Coakley would stand up to the banking and insurance industries, while her opponent would not.
 Mr. Axelrod said the economy had created an anti-incumbent mood, but predicted Ms. Coakley would win because ''ultimately I don't think people are going to vote for a faux advocate for working people when they can have a real one.''
 Mr. Brown campaign manager, Beth Lindstrom, said Mr. Brown would continue his campaign as usual. ''Scott Brown will spend the remaining days of the campaign the same way he started it, shaking hands with Massachusetts voters and talking about his plans to keep taxes low and cut out wasteful spending,'' she said.
 Ms. Coakley ''will be a rubber stamp for the political machine at a time when people want to end business as usual in Washington,'' Ms. Lindstrom said. 
 Both campaigns used star power on Friday to try to galvanize support. Mr. Brown appeared in Boston with former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani of New York, and Ms. Coakley spoke at packed rallies in Boston and Worcester featuring former President Bill Clinton, Senator John F. Kerry and Gov. Deval Patrick. 
 ''The voting here is going to determine the balance of power in America,'' Mr. Kerry said, ''and with it is going to determine the fate of what we started with Barack Obama a little over a year ago.'' 
 Mr. Clinton said the race was a choice about the nation's future.
 ''You have to decide if you want us to be a tomorrow country or a yesterday country,'' Mr. Clinton told the cheering crowd of hundreds in the ornate ballroom of the Copley Square Hotel in Boston. 
 Ms. Coakley, the state attorney general, criticized Mr. Brown's opposition to Mr. Obama's proposed bank tax, saying that opposing the tax would further hurt Americans financially reeling from the recession. 
 ''Scott Brown says it's O.K. that C.E.O.'s can line their pockets and forget about what taxpayers did last year,'' she said. 
 Mr. Brown defended his position on Friday morning in the shadow of the Old North Church in the North End of Boston, saying that banks would eventually pass the tax to consumers through fees. 
 ''Any time there's a tax being imposed on businesses, who's paying for it? We are,'' Mr. Brown said. 
 Mr. Brown and Mr. Giuliani continued to attack Ms. Coakley's national security credentials and remarks she made about Afghanistan in a debate on Monday night.
 ''Frankly, his opponent's ignorance about the issues facing us is astounding,'' Mr. Giuliani said. 
 ''I'm very concerned about America,'' he continued. ''We need to send a signal loud and clear, and if the people of Massachusetts do it, boy, will it be heard.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Scott Brown, left, the Republican candidate for Senate in Massachusetts, was joined on the stump Friday by Rudolph W. Giuliani. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WINSLOW TOWNSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MARTHA COAKLEY (90%); SCOTT BROWN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); BILL CLINTON (78%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



444 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: Envoys to Meet on Possible Sanctions Over Iran Nuclear Program

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
Senior diplomats from the five permanent members of the Security Council and from Germany are scheduled to meet in New York on Saturday to discuss imposing new sanctions on Iran, with the Western nations seeking tough measures while China appears to be stalling for time. 
 Before that meeting, the Chinese have let the other participants know that He Yafei, the vice minister of foreign affairs, an official with sufficient clout to give an answer on sanctions proposals, would be unlikely to attend. 
 Instead, Zhang Yesui, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, is expected to represent Beijing. Mr. Zhang said at a news conference this month that the Iranian nuclear issue ''needs some more time and patience.''
 China, which is generally reluctant to impose sanctions on any country, particularly of an economic nature, has a history of dragging out the negotiations in the Security Council by repeatedly saying its representative must await further instructions from Beijing. 
 At issue for the other diplomats is whether to push for tough sanctions and risk a Chinese abstention. Such an outcome could inspire some of the other nations on the 15-member Council to sit on their hands, calling into question whether proponents could muster the nine votes required for the measure to pass. 
 Turkey questions the wisdom of imposing sanctions now, echoing the Chinese position that further negotiations might coax the Iranians to export some of their stockpile of uranium for further enrichment abroad, rather than enrich it themselves. Lebanon and Brazil, both new members of the Council this year, might be reluctant to vote for strong measures, given their ties with Iran. 
 There is also a debate in Washington over whether tough, immediate sanctions would be the wisest course, diplomats here said, with some arguing that pushing for harsh sanctions now would be an admission by the administration that its policy of engaging America's adversaries had failed. 
 Both Russia and China supported three previous rounds of Council sanctions that basically took aim at Iranian organizations and individuals involved in the nation's nuclear program. The sanctions are meant to push Iran back to the negotiating table and to prevent it from gaining nuclear weapon technology, which Iran denies seeking. 
 Russia has signaled that it will support at least weak sanctions. It feels rebuffed after Iran first accepted and then rejected a deal broached last October, under which Iran would have sent much of its enriched uranium to Russia for processing. 
 The three Western permanent members of the Security Council -- the United States, Britain and France -- along with Germany, would like to impose sanctions in at least three areas. They would try to restrict the ability of Iranian banks to work abroad; single out senior members of the Revolutionary Guards, the entity that runs the nuclear program; and try to hamper Iranian shipping companies. 
 The Russians have previously opposed travel bans against the Revolutionary Guards leaders because they travel to Moscow to negotiate deals, diplomats said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINES & PENALTIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (55%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%); LEBANON (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



445 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Did Haiti's Poverty and Culture Worsen the Tragedy?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''The Underlying Tragedy,'' by David Brooks (column, Jan. 15):
 The appalling tragedy in Haiti is indeed hard to think about, and the understandable tendency to blame the victims all too naturally pops up, as in Mr. Brooks's column. It is really a whole culture, Mr. Brooks seems to be saying, that makes those Haitians, and other recalcitrant poor people, so hard to help. 
 It seems more likely that the causes of poverty and lack of development are quite a bit more complicated. 
 In times of tragedy it might be advisable not to leap to easy conclusions or judgments.
 Joseph Adams New York, Jan. 15, 2010
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks, in his incisive analysis of the underlying tragedy of Haiti, does not mention one major contributing factor: too many people for the land or economy to support.
 Even with steady emigration there are food shortages, deforestation to produce charcoal, flight to the cities with resultant crowding, lack of sanitation and health care, and so forth.
 China's one-child policy, however draconian, helped to propel its rapid economic growth. Promotion of contraception could help not only Haiti but other poverty-stricken countries as well, although in the case of Haiti, religion makes that an uphill battle.
 Edith Neimark Princeton, N.J., Jan. 15, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Though some will read David Brooks's column and believe that he is simply saying a hard truth that good-minded liberals need to hear, I would like to suggest that the article shows a kind of arrogance of distance.
 When he speaks about the larger tragedy of Haiti -- beyond the horrors of this week -- he makes a comparison to China. He makes the point that the Chinese, with little aid, have done better at alleviating poverty than the Haitians have with aid. 
 But in 2008, an earthquake in Sichuan Province left about 88,000 dead. Why? Because like Haiti, the poor in China live in areas where building is shoddy and public services are few. 
 Mr. Brooks's point is that aid is not the solution because culture is at the core of Haiti's problems. And one wonders how, if voodoo (or vodou, more properly) is part of the problem, the Dominican Republican has done relatively well, since it is also practiced there. 
 In every newscast I have heard in the last two days, journalists have been asked to talk about lawlessness, only to report that they haven't seen any. Instead, the story seems to be that Haitians are helping Haitians. The buildings are gone, but the sense of community is not.
 Nancy Gilson San Diego, Jan. 15, 2010
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks's analysis of what went wrong in Haiti misses the mark. Blaming cultural forces before financial forces is absurd.
 Haiti spent its early existence handcuffed by crippling reparations to France -- a penalty for rejecting the shackles of slavery. 
 At the peak of this debt, Haiti was paying 80 percent of its national budget to foreign creditors. After the debt was ''paid off,'' a string of brutal dictators -- many propped up by the United States -- ransacked the country's coffers. 
 Haiti never had a chance, and blaming cultural factors, like vodou, is counterproductive.
 Michael Falco New York, Jan. 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); JOURNALISM (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (73%); WRITERS (73%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); LIBERALISM (71%); DEFORESTATION (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (53%); CONTRACEPTION (51%); SICHUAN EARTHQUAKE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (75%); SICHUAN, CHINA (57%) HAITI (99%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



446 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 

LENGTH: 338 words

PERSON: Hasib Sabbagh 

HEADLINE: Hasib Sabbagh, Co-Founder of Middle East Builder, Is Dead at 90

BYLINE: By BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
Hasib Sabbagh, a founder of the Consolidated Contractors Company International, one of the largest construction companies in the Middle East, died on Tuesday in Cleveland. He was 90.
 His death was announced by a representative of the company. 
 Established in 1952 by Mr. Sabbagh and his brother-in-law, Said Khoury, the Consolidated Contractors Company thrived in some of the world's most volatile regions, helped by Mr. Sabbagh's contacts with a wide range of business executives and politicians. 
 The company built the Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq, which was completed in 1969, a decade before Saddam Hussein became president. It also built a terminal extension at Ronald Reagan National Airport in Washington.
 Hasib Sabbagh (pronounced SAB-ah) was born in 1920 in Tiberias, Palestine. He graduated from the Arab College of Jerusalem in 1938, and in 1941 earned a civil engineering degree from the American University of Beirut.
 His company moved its headquarters to Athens from Beirut after civil war broke out in Lebanon in 1975. It then benefited from the economic construction boom in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, and provided offshore services to the oil and gas industries in the Persian Gulf.
 The magazine Arabian Business listed Mr. Sabbagh as one of the 50 most powerful people in the Arab world and ranked him 19th on its 2009 list of the richest Arabs, with a net worth of $4.3 billion.
 Mr. Sabbagh was also a member of the Palestine National Council and a donor to the Carter Center, founded in 1982 by former President Jimmy Carter, which promotes respect for human rights and fights global poverty. Mr. Carter said in 2005 that Mr. Sabbagh was ''one of my earliest and strongest allies in pursuing peace in the Middle East.'' After the death of his wife, Mr. Sabbagh founded the Diana Tamari Sabbagh Foundation, which receives 1 percent of his annual income and distributes it to a wide variety of institutions in the Middle East, Europe and the United States, according to Mr. Sabbagh's personal Web site.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (78%); OIL SERVICES INDUSTRY (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); AIRPORTS (69%); HUMAN RIGHTS (50%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS CO LTD (93%); CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS CO WLL (58%); CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS CO OMAN LLC (58%); CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS CO SAL (58%); CONSOLIDATED CONTRACTORS CO KUWAIT WLL (58%)

ORGANIZATION: CARTER CENTER (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237310 HIGHWAY, STREET & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (93%); SIC1611 HIGHWAY & STREET CONSTRUCTION, EXCEPT ELEVATED HIGHWAYS (93%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (58%); SIC1622 BRIDGE, TUNNEL, & ELEVATED HIGHWAY CONSTRUCTION (58%); SIC1629 HEAVY CONSTRUCTION NEC (58%); SIC1623 WATER, SEWER, PIPELINE, & COMMUNICATIONS & POWER LINE CONSTRUCTION (58%)

JIMMY CARTER (55%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%) MIDDLE EAST (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); LEBANON (92%); GULF STATES (79%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance, Politics and Gov't (Foreign)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



447 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (Cinemax) I LOVE YOU, MAN (2009) Paul Rudd plays Peter Klaven, a girl's guy (code for wuss) without a male friend. Jason Segel, above center left with Mr. Rudd, who teamed up with him in ''Forgetting Sarah Marshall,'' is Sydney Fife, a guy's guy so secure in his maleness that he wears Ugg boots and shorts to walk his teeny dog. The two meet cute at an open house and, voila!, Peter has a best man to stand by his side at his wedding to Zooey (Rashida Jones) -- if the wedding ends up happening. Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis called the film ''a fitfully funny comedy that owes much to Judd Apatow, the king of such sublimated man-on-man affairs,'' adding that the director, John Hamburg, ''doesn't do anything with the camera, but he sets a nice, easygoing tone for the actors.'' Andy Samberg plays Peter's masculine gay brother; J. K. Simmons and Jane Curtin are their parents; and Lou Ferrigno is himself. 
 10:30 A.M. (13) RELIGION & ETHICS NEWSWEEKLY Kim Lawton looks at the effect of the Haiti earthquake on religious people, and their efforts to send aid. Bob Abernethy talks with Jim Wallis, the author of ''Rediscovering Values: On Wall Street, Main Street and Your Street -- A Moral Compass for the New Economy,'' about the ethical implications of the lavish bonuses expected to be given to financial industry executives later this month. 
 NOON (13) RICHARD HEFFNER'S OPEN MINDStephen Engelberg discusses the concept of ProPublica, a nonprofit newsroom where he is managing editor, that produces investigative journalism that is given away for publication or broadcast.
 4:30 P.M. (Fox) N.F.C. DIVISIONAL PLAYOFF GAME The New Orleans Saints host the Arizona Cardinals at the Superdome. In the A.F.C. Divisional Playoff, at 8 on CBS, the Baltimore Ravens travel to Lucas Oil Stadium to face off against the Indianapolis Colts.
 8 P.M. (Sundance) LOVE COMES LATELY (2007) Three short stories by the Nobel laureate Isaac Bashevis Singer are intertwined in this tale about an aging lothario (Otto Tausig) whose dreams and life mingle in his imagination. Rhea Perlman plays his long-suffering girlfriend; Barbara Hershey is a former student; Tovah Feldshuh a needy widow; and Elizabeth Pena a Cuban housekeeper. Writing in The New York Times, Nathan Lee called the film, like its protagonist, ''doddering and milquetoasty, but ultimately disarming,'' adding that the director Jan Schutte ''may well have made a minor classic for the retired-Jews-of-Miami set.''
 9 P.M. (Syfy) HOUSE OF BONES (2010) A couple of reality show ghost hunters (Charisma Carpenter and Corin Nemec) discover that their latest investigation into the paranormal may be the death of them.
 9 P.M. (Starz) SUNSHINE CLEANING (2008) A single mother (Amy Adams, above left, with Emily Blunt) who is having an affair with her married high school boyfriend (Steve Zahn) starts a crime-scene-cleanup business with her wayward sister (Ms. Blunt). It pays. Alan Arkin plays their father, a troublesome but well-meaning old coot. Writing in The Times, A. O. Scott noted the movie's similarities to ''Little Miss Sunshine'' -- a setting in Albuquerque, a beat-up old van, a get-rich-quick scheme, family dysfunction and Mr. Arkin -- and called it ''less a free-standing independent film than a scrap-metal robot built after a shopping spree at the Park City Indie Parts and Salvage Warehouse.'' Still, he added, if the picture sometimes seems better than it is, that is largely because the director, Christine Jeffs, ''has a good touch with actors and a very good cast.''
 10 P.M. (BBC America) THE GRAHAM NORTON SHOW Michael Sheen, who played the talk show host David Frost in the film ''Frost/Nixon,'' does his best imitation of Mr. Norton as interviewer. The singer Shirley Bassey and the comedian Rhod Gilbert are also guests.
 10 P.M. (Animal Planet) PIT BOSS Shorty Rossi, the head of Shortywood Productions, a talent management company for little people, enlists three short friends and employees to help him with his mission of rescuing, rehabilitating and training what he calls the most misunderstood dogs: pit bulls.
 11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVESigourney Weaver is the host; the Ting Tings are the musical guests. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (89%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (85%); SPORTS (85%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); WRITERS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); RELIGION (70%); JOURNALISM (68%); JEWS & JUDAISM (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (65%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (65%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (65%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (64%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (61%); TOURNAMENTS (61%); AWARDS & PRIZES (60%); NOBEL PRIZES (50%); BANKING & FINANCE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (67%) INDIANA, USA (67%) HAITI (76%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



448 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: President of Stevens Institute Agrees to Step Down

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
The embattled president of Stevens Institute of Technology, Harold J. Raveche, will step down in July, the college said Friday. And under terms of a settlement ending a lawsuit by the State of New Jersey that questioned his $1.1 million salary, the institute has accepted extensive governance changes that will stiffen oversight of its financial management. 
 Dr.. Raveche will be paid his salary, which exceeds those earned by the presidents of Harvard, Princeton and M.I.T., for a year after he leaves office July 1, Attorney General Anne Milgram said. And under the terms of his contract, Dr. Raveche will be compensated as a consultant through June 2014, she said.
Ms. Milgram filed the sweeping civil lawsuit against Stevens in September, accusing Dr. Raveche and the institute's chairman, Lawrence T. Babbio Jr., of financial negligence and mismanagement.
 The lawsuit accused Dr. Raveche of plundering the endowment and receiving $1.8 million in illegal low-interest loans for vacation homes, half of which were later forgiven. It also accused Stevens of using multiple sets of books to hide its deteriorating financial condition.
 Stevens sought to have the lawsuit dismissed and to have court proceedings sealed, but never answered the state's allegations point by point. 
 Prosecutors and Stevens lawyers negotiated the settlement this month, in Ms. Milgram's final weeks in office, her aides said. Governor-elect Chris Christie, who takes office Tuesday, has nominated the Essex County prosecutor, Paula Dow, as the state's new attorney general.
 The settlement fell short of many of the demands in the New Jersey complaint, which included repayment to Stevens of ''unreasonable and improper'' compensation payments made to Dr. Raveche, and the removal of Mr. Babbio as board chairman. Under the settlement, Mr. Babbio, a former Verizon president, will keep his post for about three years.
 Still, Dr. Raveche must repay the approximately $750,000 balance on the mortgages by July 2014, prosecutors said.
 In a joint statement, Mr. Raveche and Mr. Babbio said Stevens was ''well-positioned to achieve ever-higher levels of greatness among the nation's and world's research universities.''
 In a separate statement, Dr. Raveche said the formal settlement did not require his resignation. ''I have made this decision in the best interest of Stevens,'' he said.
 Jack B. Siegel, a Chicago lawyer who follows nonprofit cases, praised some elements of the settlement, including that ''the person who is the lightning rod isn't going to be there anymore,'' and that the governance changes' coming to Stevens were ''impressive.''
 But he said it was unfortunate that the settlement included no admission of wrongdoing by Dr. Raveche or Stevens. 
 ''That's troubling,'' Mr. Siegel said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LITIGATION (94%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); LAWYERS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); GOVERNORS (73%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%)

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%)

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (53%); VZ (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (53%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%)

PERSON: PAULA T DOW (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



449 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 FIVE SENIOR QAEDA FIGURES KILLED IN YEMENI AIRSTRIKE
 An airstrike in northern Yemen killed at least five senior members of Al Qaeda's Arabian branch, Yemeni officials said, including the group's military commander. The attack was part a new American-backed campaign. PAGE A4 
 IRAQI POLITICS IN TURMOIL 
 The hard-won legitimacy of Iraq's political process looked dangerously tattered, lawmakers and residents said, because of the decision to bar nearly 500 candidates from parliamentary elections in March, many of them Sunni Muslim. PAGE A4
 CATHOLIC-JEWISH RELATIONS
 Pope Benedict XVI plans to visit a synagogue in Rome on Sunday in an effort to repair tensions that have developed in Catholic-Jewish relations during his papacy. But will it help? PAGE A5 
 IRANIAN WARNS PROTESTERS
 Iran's police chief, Ismail Ahmadi Moghaddam, warned the country's opposition that the era of ''mercy'' was over. He said that those who used e-mail and cellphones to organize protests would be punished even more severely than the protesters themselves. PAGE A9 
 MILITANT KILLED, OFFICIALS SAY
 Jamal Saeed Abdul Rahim -- a Palestinian who has been wanted in connection to the 1986 hijacking of a Pan Am flight -- was killed in an American airstrike, two Pakistani intelligence officials said. PAGE A9 
 2 MORE ARRESTS IN JAPAN
 Prosecutors arrested two former aides of Ichiro Ozawa, a leading member of the governing party, adding to the continuing scandal over about $4 million in improperly reported money used to buy land in Tokyo. PAGE A9 
 CHINESE HALT GAY PAGEANT
 Eight police officers entered the Lan Club in Beijing and shut down the first Mr. Gay China pageant an hour before it was set to start, saying organizers lacked permits. PAGE A9 
 National
 IN REPORT ON FORT HOOD CASE, PENTAGON FAULTS SUPERVISION
 A newly released Pentagon review portrayed a systemic breakdown within the military that permitted Maj. Nidal Malik Hasan, an Army psychiatrist now charged with killing 13 people, to advance through the ranks despite concerns about his behavior. PAGE A10 
 GEOTHERMAL PROJECT RULES
 The United States Energy Department, concerned about earthquake risk, will issue new safeguards on geothermal energy projects that drill deep into the Earth's crust, like AltaRock Energy's abandoned effort in California. PAGE A10 
 COURT TO RULE ON PETITIONS
 The Supreme Court agreed to decide whether the First Amendment requires that the signers of ballot-initiative petitions be kept secret. The new case arose from an effort to overturn a Washington State domestic partnership law. PAGE A11 
 SENATOR SEEKS TO SCRAP DEAL
 Senator Ben Nelson of Nebraska asked the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, to remove a special provision in the health care legislation that would have the federal government pay all the costs for a proposed expansion of Medicaid in Nebraska. Prescriptions. PAGE A11 
 OBAMA TO STUMP IN BOSTON
 The White House announced that President Obama will campaign on Sunday for Martha Coakley, the Democratic Senate candidate, amid growing signs that the race for the Massachusetts seat has become too close to call. PAGE A12 
 New York
 COMPARED WITH MEETINGS, WBAI BROADCASTS ARE TAME
 The leaders of WBAI, also known as ''free-speech radio,'' New York's last outpost of the far left, recently held a board meeting and on the top of the agenda: whether to seat a newly elected, and currently incarcerated, member Lynne Stewart. PAGE A15
 Business
 JPMORGAN'S PROFIT IN 2009 DOUBLED TO $11.7 BILLION
 JPMorgan Chase kicked off what is expected to be a robust -- and controversial -- reporting season for the nation's banks. In a remarkable rebound from the depths of the financial crisis, JPMorgan earned $11.7 billion last year. PAGE B1
 A GOOD DOSAGE OF ADVICE
 Most everyone needs financial advice. The big question is how much. Figuring that out depends, at least in part, on your stage in life, your goals and what you expect to receive in return. Your Money by Tara Siegel Bernard. PAGE B1 
 DRUG MAKER ACCUSED
 Johnson & Johnson paid kickbacks to the nation's largest nursing-home pharmacy, Omnicare, to increase the number of patients taking the antipsychotic drug Risperdal and other medications, according to a complaint filed by the United States attorney in Boston. PAGE B2 
 CHALLENGE TO ANTITRUST CHIEF
 The nomination of Neelie Kroes, Europe's hard-nosed antitrust chief, to a new post as commissioner for the digital agenda was in doubt after she was accused of being evasive during a testy appearance before a committee of the European Parliament. PAGE B2 
 DATA ON MORTGAGE EFFORT
 Mortgage payments have been permanently lowered for more than 66,000 borrowers under the Obama administration's $75 billion program to protect homeowners from foreclosure, according to newly released federal data. PAGE B3 
 Sports
 ARENAS PLEADS GUILTY TO ONE FELONY GUN CHARGE
 Washington Wizards guard Gilbert Arenas pleaded guilty to one count of carrying a pistol without a license in the District of Columbia. Prosecutors will not seek a jail term greater than six months as part of a plea agreement. PAGE B12 
 Arts
 SELLING LITERARY TALES OF THE GREAT RECESSION
 A second wave of books about the global financial crisis is arriving. With plenty of titles already out that have taken analytic, reported and historical views of the downturn, the new books offer the personal side, describing the experience of losing a job, losing a house or simply losing money. PAGE C1
 CHASING COMPLETE WORKS
 Jim and Jane Monach recently completed their quest to see every full-length play in the Shakespeare canon. The Monachs are part of a tiny subset of theater fans, devotees intent on seeing every single work by their favorite writer. PAGE C1 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); POLITICS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (78%); ARMIES (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); HIJACKING (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); PETITIONS (75%); REFERENDUMS (75%); ARRESTS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); BALLOTS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SCANDALS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (65%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (65%); MEDICAID (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (64%); LEGISLATION (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (67%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (67%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); BEN NELSON (56%); POPE BENEDICT XVI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%); EARTH (66%) YEMEN (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



450 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: N. Korea Threatens to Halt All Talks With Seoul

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea 

 BODY:
North Korea, denouncing South Korea for drawing up a contingency plan to deal with the potential collapse of the North's government, warned Friday that it would cut off all dialogue with the South and exclude it from all negotiations concerning the security of the Korean Peninsula. North Korea will also wage a ''pan-national holy war of retaliation to blow away'' the South Korean government, said a statement from the North's highest ruling agency, the National Defense Commission, which is headed by the national leader, Kim Jong-il. 
 ''It is deeply regrettable that the North makes such a threatening statement against us based on unconfirmed reports,'' Chun Hae-sung, a spokesman of the South Korean government's Unification Ministry, said in a statement. 
 The threat was surprising less for its stridency, which is not unusual in diatribes against the South and the United States, than for its timing. On Thursday, North Korea had proposed holding talks with the South on reviving joint tour programs, which have been stalled for more than a year over the shooting death of a southern tourist and the North's anger over Seoul's policies. 
 And only minutes before North Korea's official news agency broadcast the statement, South Korea had announced that the North Korean Red Cross had accepted 10,000 tons of food aid offered by its South Korean counterpart. 
 The two gestures from the North fit within a recent series of conciliatory signs from the North -- until Mr. Kim's National Defense Commission waded in with its denunciation. 
 The commission apparently was angered by news reports this week of a South Korean contingency plan for North Korea. According to the newspapers Munhwa and Chosun, South Korea recently dusted off and revised the plan, apparently in the belief that Mr. Kim's uncertain health and the North's deepening economic woes under international sanctions have made the country more unstable . 
 The news reports, which quoted unidentified officials in Seoul, said that the plan addresses five possibilities: the death of Mr. Kim; a coup; a popular uprising; a huge outflow of refugees; and more sanctions or military attacks from the outside. It also envisions South Korea establishing on territory in the North an ''administrative headquarters to liberate the North.'' 
 South Korea said that it and the United States had a contingency plan for unrest in North Korea but refused to reveal its details. 
 ''This is a plan to topple our republic,'' the North Korean statement said on Friday. 
 ''We will start a pan-national holy war of retaliation to blow away the den of South Korean authorities, including the presidential Blue House, who have led and supported the drawling up of this plan,'' it said. 
 North Korea did not elaborate on what a ''holy war'' might entail, but said it would involve ''all our revolutionary military power and all Korean compatriots both in the North and the South and abroad.'' 
 The North also demanded that South Korea apologize. Otherwise, it said, it would exclude the South from ''all talks on improving ties between the North and the South and negotiations on securing peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula.'' 
 North Korea had previously threatened a ''holy war'' against its external enemies, especially the United States.
 On Monday, North Korea proposed new talks to negotiate a peace treaty with the United States that would formally conclude the 1950-53 Korean War, which ended in a truce and left the peninsula technically in a state of war. Seoul and Washington rejected the proposal, insisting that they can start such talks only after the North returns to six-nation nuclear disarmament negotiations and begins dismantling its nuclear weapons programs. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); REFUGEES (72%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (70%); COUPS (65%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (61%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (73%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (73%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); NORTHERN ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



451 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 16, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Implications For Health Bill In Senate Race

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; Robert Pear contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
With their party's candidate struggling in Massachusetts in a race for what should be the safest of Senate seats, Congressional Democrats are growing increasingly unnerved about the political consequences of the health care overhaul even as their leadership closes in on a final agreement.
 Many Democrats say they still believe the best course is to forge ahead and enact sweeping health care changes, allowing them to claim the party has conquered a domestic issue that has long defied a legislative resolution. 
 But they also say the health fight has dragged on for far too long, denying Democrats the opportunity to concentrate on issues that are foremost in the minds of many Americans, jobs and the health of the economy.
 Now the prospect of Attorney General Martha Coakley of Massachusetts losing on Tuesday in the special election to fill the seat of the late Edward M. Kennedy -- the longtime champion of a health care overhaul -- is intensifying anxiety among Democrats who were already worried about the 2010 midterm election environment.
 Democrats warn of panic in the ranks should the Republican candidate, Scott Brown, prevail. Highlighting the sense that the political climate is shifting rapidly, the White House announced Friday that President Obama would travel to Massachusetts on Sunday to campaign for Ms. Coakley, hoping to generate Democratic enthusiasm in a contest that will hinge on turnout. The decision to put the president's political prestige on the line after the White House initially said he would not make a trip was a gauge of how seriously the administration was taking the threat.
 A victory by Mr. Brown could cause the fragile Democratic coalition behind the health legislation to unravel and put approval of the measure itself in jeopardy. Were he to win and take his seat before final consideration of the health legislation, Democrats would be one vote short of the 60 needed to get the bill through the Senate. 
 Senate Democrats say that in the event of a close race, getting the required election certification and seating a new senator could take up to two weeks. Democrats were considering whether to try to hold the final health care vote before Mr. Brown took his seat if he won, so they could use their 60-vote majority for one final victory -- a move sure to inflame Republicans and pose political risks for Mr. Obama and his party. 
 But top Democratic officials said it was unlikely they would try to jam the measure through if the Massachusetts election went against them. Other options would be to try to persuade the House to pass the Senate version and avoid another Senate vote or to employ a procedural shortcut that would negate the need for 60 votes but limit the scope of health changes Congress could consider.
 Democratic strategists also warned that a Republican victory in Massachusetts could fundamentally alter the outlook for the 2010 Congressional election season by sparking retirements among vulnerable Democrats.
 For the first time, Democratic operatives said privately that control of the House could be at stake if enough Democrats saw the Massachusetts race as evidence they were headed toward defeat in November and decided to forgo a race. Another Democratic House incumbent, Representative Vic Snyder of Arkansas, announced Friday that he would retire, giving Republicans a good opportunity to pick up the seat in November.
 Senior Democrats in Congress and the White House said they continued to believe Ms. Coakley would win in Massachusetts, but they acknowledged that her loss could have severe political consequences for them.
 ''It would not be good,'' said Representative Deborah Wasserman Schultz of Florida, a vice chairwoman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee.
 Echoing comments by Mr. Obama on Thursday, Democratic leaders said the best political course for Democrats was to finish the job on the health bill.
 ''The greatest and the most important thing we can do is have success here at delivering on an intractable problem that has stymied Washington for 70 years,'' said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. ''Democrats will be able to say we have gotten something done in Washington.''
 Other Democrats said they remained uncertain of whether they could turn the health care measure into a political benefit ahead of the November elections, but they were sure that allowing it to collapse would be a serious misstep.
 ''We know that it is bad news if we don't get it done,'' said Representative James P. McGovern, Democrat of Massachusetts. ''If we do get it done, it might be bad news or it might not be. So we need to get this done and start talking about something else.''
 Representative Phil Hare, Democrat of Illinois, agreed: ''We have to get this behind us. We have to pivot to jobs.''
 Several Democrats said they were convinced that much of the public would embrace the health legislation once its benefits became known and that Democrats would be able to run proudly on their accomplishment.
 ''We are on the verge of completing legislation that is in a league with Social Security and Medicare,'' said Representative Rosa DeLauro, Democrat of Connecticut. ''It has the potential to change people's lives.''
 But some in the party warned that the Democratic Congress was on the brink of a mistake that could cost lawmakers dearly.
 Representative Gene Taylor, a conservative Mississippi Democrat and opponent of the health plan, said its nearly $1 trillion cost and the lack of widespread public enthusiasm for it adds up to a political miscalculation.
 ''Why in the heck are we spending that amount of money for something the American people don't want?'' asked Mr. Taylor, who said the Democratic situation reminded him of the climate before the Republican takeover of the House in 1994. ''I was here for 1994, and I know what ugly looks like.''
 Top Democrats said they believed the Massachusetts race was being wrongly interpreted as a referendum on the health care legislation when the fact that Ms. Coakley was locked in a tight race in heavily Democratic Massachusetts was due more to her running a complacent campaign and other errors.
 ''There will be more panic than is justified because it was more peculiar to her,'' said Representative Barney Frank, a fellow Massachusetts Democrat.
 Democratic supporters of the health plan said the party could not afford to back away now.
 Said Representative Xavier Becerra of California, a member of the Democratic leadership, ''We are on the verge of doing something that most Americans did not believe we could accomplish.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Bill Clinton on Friday at a rally with Martha Coakley. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CJ GUNTHER/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
 Representative Rosa DeLauro (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL REYNOLDS/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (93%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); APPROVALS (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (54%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); SCOTT BROWN (78%); MARTHA COAKLEY (78%); ROSA DELAURO (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010



452 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: Hartford, a 'Shining Example'

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
About 100 of Connecticut's 169 cities and towns have local historic districts or other neighborhood preservation protections, but Hartford is the only place where the ordinance is citywide. In Hartford, buildings listed on the state register of historic places come under the ordinance's jurisdiction, and those structures can be demolished only if there is no feasible or prudent alternative. ''It's a shining example,'' said Helen Higgins, executive director of the Connecticut Trust for Historic Preservation. ''And it's been hugely successful.'' 
 Often, local residents resist the creation of historic districts out of fear that their freedom in dealing with their property will be severely limited. Ms. Higgins counters that studies show that real estate values in historic districts hold steady or, more commonly, increase. Another perk of such rules, she said, is that ''you can predict that your neighbor isn't going to mess up his house.'' 
 Connecticut also offers a statewide tax credit of up to 30 percent to developers who convert historic buildings to mixed or residential use. Common Ground, a nonprofit group that aids the homeless, used these state and federal tax credits to restore a Depression-era multifamily building in downtown Hartford. 
 But the recession has suspended other restoration efforts in Connecticut. 
 ''It's dead right now, even though there's the state historic tax credit,'' Ms. Higgins said. ''Just a few years ago, we were moving forward with mixed-use rehabilitation in some of our major cities. But things have stalled.'' CARA BUCKLEY 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (94%); CITIES (91%); ORDINANCES (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); HISTORY (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); HISTORIC SITES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); RECESSION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (94%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



453 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 263 words

HEADLINE: A Recession, but Threats Persist

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
During the fiscal crisis of the 1970s, when big development projects in New York City were suspended, many New Yorkers decided to save their city by preserving it. 
 ''Properties that may have been torn down, or improved, or replaced, were still there,'' said Jeffrey A. Kroessler, a longtime city preservationist. ''Citizens embraced preservation as a way of bringing the city back to life. So when recovery came, instead of the city bulldozing properties, as they might have done in the past, there was a very active dialogue between the citizens and developers.'' 
 The current recession has made for another development lull, but preservationists say developers are still active behind the scenes. ''In the down times, we still see developers lining up the permits for demolition, alteration permits, chiseling details off buildings so they can't be landmarked,'' said Kate Wood, executive director of Landmark West, a nonprofit preservation group. ''Just because we don't see a lot of buildings going up doesn't mean older buildings aren't still at risk.''
 Of particular concern to city preservationists is the block-size Hudson River Powerhouse on far West 59th Street, built in 1904 by the architecture firm McKim, Mead & White. The building is not threatened with demolition; it is owned by Con Edison and still provides the utility's customers with steam. But Con Edison has consistently resisted efforts to landmark the building, saying the designation would be too restrictive, and removed the last original smokestack earlier this year, to preservationists' alarm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (73%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (54%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (54%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



454 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; IN THE REGION CONNECTICUT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: At Year's End, Sales Picked Up Pace

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
COMING off one of the worst years ever for the housing market, Connecticut has reason to be hopeful that 2010 will be better -- chiefly because it is hard to imagine the economy sliding precipitously enough for sales to fall still further.
 As of the end of November (the latest month for which data was available), 22,200 single-family homes had sold statewide in 2009, a decline of 4 percent from the same period in 2008. By comparison, in 2006, the number of transactions exceeded 32,000. The median price slid by 11 percent statewide -- more like 15 to 20 percent in hard-hit Fairfield County. 
 Builders all but stopped building in 2009. The number of permits issued had not broken 3,000 as of the end of November, a ''pretty terrible'' tally compared with the more ''normal'' level of 11,000 to 12,000 permits a year, said Peter M. Gioia, the economist for the Connecticut Business and Industry Association.
 Still, there are signs that the correction is nearly complete. The market picked up markedly toward the end of the year, with sales volume up an impressive 75 percent in November, according to the Warren Group, a real estate data provider in Boston. 
 Mr. Gioia said he was confident that the state's housing market was, in fact, in recovery, with Fairfield County being a possible exception. He cautioned, however, that upward progress would be slow. 
 ''We're in a modest uptick,'' he explained, ''but we're at the very beginning of it.'' 
 Connecticut doesn't have an overbuilt market to contend with, like Florida or Nevada, for example. However, market stability has been undermined by job loss, extended unemployment and persistent foreclosure activity. And far from adding jobs this year, Connecticut employers are likely to lay off another 15,000 workers, Mr. Gioia said.
 Unemployment, estimated by the state at 8 to 9 percent, is abetting the rise in foreclosure filings. In the state's court-based foreclosure mediation program, which was made mandatory last year for all eligible foreclosure actions, the number of cases in mediation in the last quarter of 2009 rose 19 percent over the previous year, to 6,742.
 Of the 4,448 cases mediated between mid-2008, when the program began, and Oct. 31, 2009, 61 percent have resulted in a modification of loan terms that allows owners to stay in their homes, said Roberta Palmer, the program manager. 
 The long-term success of those modifications, however, is unknown. The court has not figured out a way to track what percentage wind up back in default, Ms. Palmer said. 
 Until now the state's poorest cities have borne the brunt of the foreclosure crisis. But filings of notices of pending foreclosure lawsuits -- called lis pendens -- are showing up more frequently in town clerks' offices in affluent suburbs. 
 Although the total numbers are still small relative to cities like Bridgeport and New Haven, lis pendens, the first step in Connecticut's foreclosure process, were up 75 to 115 percent last year in the Fairfield County towns of Greenwich, New Canaan, Westport and Wilton, according to the Warren Group.
 Along with the federal first-time home-buyer tax credit and low interest rates, growing seller anxiety could be contributing to increased sales activity. Tim Sickinger, a partner in Ladd Financial, a mortgage company in Westport, said that although purchases had definitely picked up over the last few months, he had also noticed that ''the sellers tend to be more distressed,'' especially in the higher price ranges. 
 In Greenwich last year, sales were so slow that the 10 sales in the first 8 days of this month encouraged Russell Pruner, an owner of Shore & Country Properties. 
 Mr. Pruner said he thought that 2009 would ''end up the worst year in the history of Greenwich real estate.''
 Home values in town have dropped 25 to 33 percent over the past two years, and houses priced accordingly are drawing buyer interest, Mr. Pruner said. Like Mr. Gioia, Mr. Pruner isn't ready to declare that the Greenwich-area market has hit bottom. 
 But he thinks the market may have fallen far enough to entice the renters waiting in the wings. 
 ''We truly have pent-up demand,'' he said. ''We've got 100-plus people in rentals paying $10,000, $15,000 a month. That was a smart move in 2009, but will they pony up again for 2010? I don't think they will.'' 
 Sales in New Canaan also picked up at the end of the year, with 35 fourth-quarter sales, as opposed to 14 in all of 2008, according to Denise Gannalo, an agent with William Raveis. Among those sales was a bank-owned property she originally listed for $3.9 million. The six-bedroom property finally sold for $1.9 million.
 While encouraged by rising sales, Ms. Gannalo sees trouble ahead for some who bought in 2005, the height of the market. This year alone, the average selling price in New Canaan fell by 21 percent, which may mean that some highly leveraged homeowners now owe more than their house is worth, she said. 
 Even as home values have declined, land prices have remained high in Fairfield County, as well as in other parts of the state. That is making it doubly difficult for builders to re-enter the market, said George LaCava, the president of Trilacon Development Corporation in Cromwell, and the president of the Homebuilders Association of Connecticut. 
 Land seems to be one investment that people are holding onto as a hedge, betting that it will hold its value, he said. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, the ''In the Region'' article in Westchester and Connecticut copies last Sunday, about the state of the housing market in Connecticut, referred incorrectly to 14 sales in New Canaan in 2008. That was the number for the fourth quarter, not ''all of 2008.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: COMPLETE WITH RUSTIC WALL: A house for sale on Sherwood Avenue in Greenwich, where agents say well-priced properties are drawing interest. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); REAL ESTATE TRANSACTIONS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MEDIAN HOME PRICE (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (69%); DISMISSALS (67%); LAYOFFS (67%); JOB CREATION (67%); LITIGATION (61%)

ORGANIZATION: CONNECTICUT BUSINESS & INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



455 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 530 words

HEADLINE: 6 Major Powers Move Closer to Considering More Iran Sanctions

BYLINE: By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS 

 BODY:
Six major powers agreed Saturday that the Iranian response to proposals to altering its nuclear development program had been inadequate and that it warranted consideration of further measures by the United Nations Security Council. 
 China, however, which sent a low-level diplomat to the meeting, maintained its position that it opposed new sanctions now. The five permanent members of the Security Council -- the United States, China, Russia, Britain and France -- along with Germany have been pursuing a ''dual track'' policy under which they would seek a negotiated settlement, but if that effort stalled, further sanctions would be imposed. 
 ''We talked mostly about the second track, but it doesn't mean we should abandon the first one,'' said Sergei Ryabkov, Russia's representative. ''It is inconclusive in the sense that we didn't make any decisions right away.''
 Western officials tried to cast a positive light on the meeting by suggesting that all six were at least moving in the same direction, even if it was unclear that China remained committed to the idea of a second track. 
 ''The credible threat of further pressure does create some leverage over the Iranian system,'' said one Western diplomat engaged in the talks. The senior diplomats agreed to consult again by telephone before the end of the month on the next step. 
 Most countries were represented on the level of senior diplomats, the ''political directors'' of their foreign ministries, but China virtually snubbed the gathering by dispatching a counselor from its United Nations mission. He Yafei, the former vice minister of foreign affairs, has now been appointed the Chinese ambassador to the United Nations in Geneva and it is unclear who will eventually replace him in the talks. 
 The meeting Saturday was held in the New York offices of the European Union, whose representative said that there was at least ''consensus'' among the six nations to focus on the next step. 
 ''We will continue to seek a negotiated solution, but consideration of appropriate further measures has also begun,'' said Robert Cooper, a senior European Union official. 
 Both China and Russia voted in the Security Council for three previous rounds of sanctions, but only China has been outspoken in its recent opposition. Russia was upset that its offer to further enrich Iranian uranium at its facilities was rebuffed and that the Iranians did not seem serious about entering negotiations. 
 The Obama administration has also been dismayed that Iran has been dismissive of a yearlong effort to engage it. Iran maintains that its desire to enrich uranium is only for peaceful civilian purposes, but Western powers accuse it of using that as a smokescreen to develop nuclear weapons. 
 There is a sense of urgency about the matter, as there are concerns that Iran will develop the capacity to enrich uranium at the levels required for weapons, while negotiations drag on. In addition, the international Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty is due for a review conference in May, and the Western powers want any new sanctions against Iran to be in place so as not to complicate any talks over the future of the treaty. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



456 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 616 words

HEADLINE: Low Rates for Just a Few

BYLINE: By BOB TEDESCHI

 BODY:
MORTGAGE borrowers might be forgiven for sometimes feeling like victims of a bait-and-switch scheme.
 For the last year or so, news has been trumpeted about historically low interest rates on 30-year fixed-rate loans; the rates tilted near 4.5 percent late last year and are now hovering above 5 percent. But when a borrower calls a mortgage broker to secure such a rate, he or she often fails.
 That's because many borrowers have a credit score below what is considered ''prime,'' according to Experian, one of the major credit-reporting agencies. On a scale of 501 to 990, Experian puts the average score at 771. (FICO, which developed the most widely used scores for assessing credit risk, doesn't publish an average figure but says the median credit score is 720, on a scale of 300 to 850.) 
 And under current guidelines from Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae, the government agencies that set lending standards for most mortgages sold in the United States, only those borrowers with credit scores of 740 or more, and a down payment of at least 20 percent, can avoid extra loan charges that could effectively raise the mortgage rate. 
 Borrowers with credit scores of 700 to 740 typically face additional charges of one-quarter to three-quarters of a percentage point of the loan amount. On a $200,000 loan, that amounts to $500 to $1,500, which can be paid up front or converted into a marginally higher interest rate.
 But for borrowers with credit scores of 680 to 700, the charge is 1.5 percentage points, and for those between 660 and 680, the charge is 2.5 percentage points. On a $200,000 loan, the extra 2.5 percentage point fee can add roughly half a percentage point to the interest rate. 
 Fannie and Freddie started aggressively increasing prices on loans to higher-risk borrowers in 2008, said Guy Cecala, the publisher of Inside Mortgage Finance, an industry trade publication. In August 2008, for instance, borrowers with credit scores of 680 to 700 incurred a charge of one percentage point of the loan amount, when making a down payment of 20 to 25 percent.
 Brad German, a spokesman for Freddie Mac, said this so-called risk-based pricing approach was necessary to protect the agency and the investors buying the mortgage securities against losses from foreclosures.
 Mortgage brokers, meanwhile, complain that these pricing formulas place too much emphasis on credit scores, which, the brokers argue, don't accurately reflect a borrower's likelihood of defaulting on a mortgage.
 Michele Raab-Francis, the chief executive of the Safe Harbor Capital Group in Bellport, N.Y., says credit scores of 680 are common among people who have taken on several credit cards with high spending limits -- even if the borrowers carry low revolving balances. ''If you have 20 percent for a down payment and 10 years of solid employment and savings and a 401(k) but a credit score of 680,'' she said, ''it's not right to penalize you based on that alone.'' 
 Mr. Cecala of Inside Mortgage Finance said, ''We're getting to the point where the mortgage market is really for people with the best credit, not the average person.''
 Still, there may be hope for borrowers. Last year Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac considerably slowed the pace at which they imposed more penalties on those with lower credit scores. Mr. Cecala noted, too, that in the final quarter of 2009, the average credit score for a Fannie or Freddie loan was 758, down from roughly 761 in the third quarter.
 ''It seems to suggest the pendulum swung too far, and there are some adjustments being made,'' Mr. Cecala said. ''They're also addressing the fact that they won't have a business if they leave the standards where they were.''

GRAPHIC: CHART: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH Associates) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); FORECLOSURE (79%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); MORTGAGE RATES (79%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (79%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (79%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); PUBLISHING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); PRODUCT PRICING (67%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: FAIR ISAAC CORP (FICO) (90%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (85%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (83%); INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (52%)

TICKER: FICO (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (90%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (85%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (85%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (85%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



457 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SHAKEN & STIRRED; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: A Good Decade To Have a Drink

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILES

 BODY:
BY now, most of the reviews of the decade-that-just-was have been filed, and a consensus has emerged: If not ''the worst decade ever,'' as Time magazine put it, the '00s were awful. 
 Unless, that is, you spent the decade drinking. That sounds like a joke but isn't, because among all the things that didn't improve in the last 10 years -- macro stuff like the global economy, geopolitical stability, the environment, etc. -- one thing, admittedly micro, did improve: the drinks we drank, for pleasure or, considering the above, analgesia. 
 If you observed the '00s from a barstool, and limited your reading to cocktail menus (as I did, as author of this column for almost four years), you'd be forgiven for deeming the decade a bona fide golden age. For my final column, then, a toast: to 10 years of fizzes, slings, juleps, sours, cobblers and rickeys, to a time when the avant-garde seemed to shift almost nightly, to the best decade in generations.
 We greeted the decade with sugary, vodka-based ''-tinis'' -- which, despite their suffixed claim to noble descent, were in some ways extensions of the neon drinks of the '80s: alcoholic candy. 
 Yet a quiet revolution was already under way. Building upon the work of Dale DeGroff, the former Rainbow Room bartender, young bartenders, casting aside process mixers, were gleaning inspiration from their counterparts in restaurant kitchens and perusing antique cocktail books like scholars combing the Dead Sea scrolls. The first half of the decade saw a wave of creativity and experimentation come crashing through barrooms in cities like New York and San Francisco and Portland, Ore., followed, in the decade's second half, by a counterblast of earnest classicism. 
 The cocktail was no longer a fashion accessory, as it was in the '90s. It was fashion itself. What had once merely lubricated conversations became the subject of conversations, in much the same way that dinner parties, with the rise of foodie-ism in the '90s, became more about the dinner and less about the party. 
 Bar patrons broadcast their selections over Twitter. Home bartenders blogged about their latest experiments. Surrendering your drink choice to the bartender, the way diners at sushi restaurants request whatever is freshest, became the '00s hippest drink order. 
 By the end of the decade, bottle service, once a mark of downtown sophistication, had come to be viewed as the province of rubes. The cocktail -- especially the classic, painstakingly made variety, served with hand-cracked ice or in recherche glassware -- had triumphed.
 And not just here. You can get an expertly made bourbon daisy in Cleveland, an impeccable sazerac in rural Mississippi. Not long ago, in an excruciatingly remote village in the Australian Outback, I was startled to see a bartender in a cowboy hat measuring out a classically proportioned French 75 -- something he'd picked up on the Internet, he told me. 
 Call this a fad at your own peril. Some peripheral aspects of the cocktail renaissance are doomed to pass, and in some places already have: speak-easy chic, bartenders in affected period costumes, an overwrought reverence that smacks of wine snobbery. But we do not go backward from here. Pardon the pun, but the bar has been raised.
 Of course, not everyone drank well this past decade. Twenty years from now, when bars are promoting nostalgic '00s theme nights, the dominant drink special will almost certainly be vodka and Red Bull. Or maybe the mojito, which introduced many Americans to fresh produce in their drink, as well as to longer wait times -- owing to the bartender's need to muddle the fresh mint leaves --associated with the craft cocktail movement. 
 But Red Bull and vodka was a club land novelty, caffeine disguised as a highball, and the mojito was that weird exception in a decade of booming cocktail progress: a good drink that suffered from its popularity, with a flood of processed mixers corrupting the bracing integrity of the original.
 No, the real story was in rediscovered in drinks like the aviation cocktail, a sublimely floral combination of gin and maraschino liqueur (and later, as cocktail historians dug deeper into its origins, the violet-flavored creme de violette) that was a Web sensation before bars like Milk & Honey started featuring it on cocktail lists. 
 Or the old-fashioned, once dowdy but reinvigorated by bartenders like Don Lee, who recast it as the celery and nori old-fashioned at Momofuku Ssam Bar, and Phil Ward of Death & Company, whose Oaxaca old-fashioned -- with tequila standing in for whiskey -- proved how versatile a spare, 200-year-old formula could be. 
 These were artisanal drinks with history and gravitas and a contrapuntal range of flavors -- sweet, sour, savory, bitter -- that hadn't been balanced in generations. They're representative of a lost American art -- the art of the cocktail, as practiced by pre-Prohibition bartenders -- that, after the '00s, can no longer be called lost. 
 Recipe: Old-Fashioned Adapted from the Quarter Bar, Brooklyn
 Adapted from the Quarter Bar, Brooklyn
 1/4 teaspoon Demerara sugar
 1 orange slice
 3 dashes Angostura bitters
 2 ounces bourbon or rye
 Dash of club soda (optional)
 1 Luxardo Marasca cherry or other high-quality macerated cocktail cherry.
 Place sugar, orange slice and bitters in an old-fashioned glass. Gently muddle until sugar has absorbed some liquid and resembles a fine paste. Add the bourbon or rye, along with a large ice cube or two, and stir well, about 20 times. Top with just slightest dash of club soda, if desired, and garnish with cherry. 
 Yield: 1 drink.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: REMIX: The old-fashioned is back. (ST1)
 CRAFTED: Sam Rose, a bartender at Milk & Honey in Manhattan, fixes the Aviator. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEIDRE SCHOO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); RESTAURANTS (88%); WRITERS (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); OREGON, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



458 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Sluggers and Bankers In the Strikeout Era

BYLINE: By PETER S. GOODMAN

 BODY:
It seems fitting that in the same week that the mandarins of American finance were yanked to Capitol Hill to explain their roles in the global financial crisis, the baseball slugger Mark McGwire finally came clean about how he managed to crush so many monstrous home runs.
 A dozen years ago, Mr. McGwire was celebrated as a modern-day Babe Ruth, whose Popeye physique seemed to attest to his hard work. Yet last week, in a tearful apology, he confessed that he was using steroids in the course of his heroics. 
 Only a couple of years ago, Wall Street was lauded as a marvel of financial innovation, the wellspring of prosperity, and the heads of major banks were lionized for bold risk-taking. Yet in tense exchanges before the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission last week, bank chieftains found themselves pressed to explain how so many of their investments proved so disastrous.
 The last two decades may yet go down as the Steroid Years, a phrase that stretches well beyond the white lines of the baseball diamond to encompass the technology bubble of the 1990s and the housing bubble that came on its heels. Not for nothing, we have learned, did the phrase ''on steroids'' insinuate itself into the supersize vernacular of the age itself, the endlessly repeated way of describing scale and intensity.
 So much really was pumped up, in ultimately unhealthy fashion.
 Thanks to steroids, we got the thrilling summer of 1998, when Mr. McGwire shattered the single-season home run mark. Thanks to pumped-up credit, we enjoyed household finances that seemed wonderfully solid as housing prices rose, only to set up a wave of foreclosures and joblessness.
 The enduring crisis of confidence that still haunts financial markets and the asterisk that hovers over the ''steroid era'' in baseball are also manifestations of the same sorts of market incentives that have been at play throughout much of American society over the last 20 years -- incentives that have rewarded the illusion of immediate riches above lasting prosperity.
 Before steroid use finally tripped the attention of the powers that be and Mr. McGwire found himself hauled before Congress to account for his amazing performance, the slugger gave the people in the stands what they craved: thunderous home runs in record-breaking numbers.
 Before millions of homeowners ran out of money to pay their too-good-to-be-prudent mortgages, triggering a panic that wiped out trillions of dollars in wealth and millions of jobs, bank chiefs were similarly applauded for consistently delivering what markets demanded: fat profits through the growth of their lending.
 The bank chiefs satisfied their audience with inflated numbers by writing home mortgages to nearly anyone in possession of a signature, aided by exotic investments that supposedly insured them against the risks. Mr. McGwire and a growing roster of other ballplayers more simply juiced their performance with steroids and human growth hormone.
 We now know that much of what once seemed enviable economic progress in jobs and real estate was a mirage. It was the product of too much borrowing, based on a collective buy-in to two fantastical notions -- that the Internet justified endless appreciation of stocks in the 1990s; and, later, that home prices could rise forever. We also now know that the home run bonanza that resuscitated national interest in baseball was the result of deception and shadow play.
 The former Citigroup chief executive Charles O. Prince III once confessed that he knew his aggressive deal-making would most likely end in trouble once the easy money stopped flowing. Still, he said he felt powerless to pull back. ''As long as the music is playing, you've got to get up and dance,'' he told The Financial Times in summer 2007, even as credit markets began to shudder. ''We're still dancing.''
 That bit of candor spoke to the pressures financial executives felt to keep pace with their rivals, even as the rivals were marching in lockstep over the cliff. On Wall Street, no one draws a bonus for deals they prudently do not make. Just as in baseball no one secures an eight-figure contract for failing to hit home runs by abstaining from chemicals.
 ''Everyone in the game has been hoping the lie could last as long as possible,'' the artificially chiseled slugger Jose Canseco declared in ''Juiced,''his 2005 book. ''Directly or indirectly, nearly everyone in baseball was complicit.''
 Which is another way of saying that complicity extends to those demanding the performance -- the owners who wrote contracts for prolific home run hitters, the fans who bought the tickets, the networks that reaped the advertising. Just as Mr. Prince might argue that the carnage done to the American economy resulted not only from people like him, out on the dance floor, but also from the orchestra playing the music -- the shareholders hungering for short-term boosts to stock prices and a society always aiming to beat the ultimate benchmark: reality.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HEAVY HITTERS: Mark McGwire, left, former Cardinals home-run king, and Charles O. Prince III, former Citigroup chief. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); STEROIDS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (88%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ATHLETES (77%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); HOUSING BUBBLE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); HOME PRICES (71%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



459 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: Founder of Focus on the Family Is Starting a New Radio Show

BYLINE: By LAURIE GOODSTEIN

 BODY:
Dr. James Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family and an influential voice for Christian conservatives, is about to depart from the organization he created and is starting a radio program that will give him greater leeway to hold forth on politics. 
 Beginning in March, Dr. Dobson, 73, will co-host the radio show with his son, Ryan, 39, a tattooed surfer and skateboarder who wrote a book called ''Be Intolerant'' and who has honed an identity preaching to youths. 
 ''Our nation is facing a crisis that threatens its very existence,'' Dr. Dobson said on Dec. 29 in announcing his new venture on his Facebook page. ''We are in a moral decline of shocking dimensions. I have asked myself how can I sit and watch the world go by without trying to help if I can. That is what motivates me at this time.''
 Dr. Dobson, a psychologist, founded Focus on the Family 33 years ago to offer advice on parenting, but he has increasingly used his substantial following among evangelicals to influence policy debates and elections. He is wooed by Republican candidates, and he conducted a sympathetic interview with Sarah Palin, then a vice-presidential candidate, after she stumbled badly in national television interviews. 
 Dr. Dobson will finish hosting his daily radio show for Focus in February. It now has 1.5 million listeners a day on about 1,000 stations. He has been gradually withdrawing from the leadership of Focus since 2003, but it is unclear why he decided to start a new organization and create a new show -- ''to be called 'James Dobson on the Family.' '' 
 He said in his announcement that he wanted to ''hand the reins of Focus to gifted successors.'' (Both he and his son declined requests for interviews.) 
 The real reason for Dr. Dobson's new venture may have been his son. A Focus board member who spoke on the condition of anonymity said that because Ryan Dobson has been divorced, it would be against the board's policy for him to serve as the voice for Focus, which counsels people on marriage and child-rearing. (Ryan Dobson has since remarried and has a son of his own.)
 Experts who study Christian ministries said that whatever the reason for it, Dr. Dobson's decision was extraordinary. 
 ''I can't think of another example where the leader of a major ministry organization founded it, built it up, then moved on and did something so visibly competitive,'' said Stewart M. Hoover, director of the Center for Media, Religion and Culture at the University of Colorado, Boulder. 
 Dr. Dobson did cultivate a successor as leader of Focus, but he never cultivated anyone to succeed him as its media personality. Focus will continue broadcasting its radio show with a variety of hosts, including Jim Daly, whom Dr. Dobson handpicked as the new president for Focus in 2005. 
 Mr. Daly, who also declined an interview request, has already taken the organization in new directions. He has expressed a willingness to work with Democrats. He has praised President Obama as a role model for African-American fathers, and just last week, Focus issued a news release hailing Mr. Obama for his attention to human trafficking and urging him to do more.
 Mr. Daly, who was orphaned as a child, has also moved Focus toward more hands-on social services, including a program that finds families to adopt children who have been in foster care. 
 ''The organization has been trying to moderate its image,'' said D. Michael Lindsay, a sociology professor at Rice University who studies evangelical leaders, ''and I imagine that Dr. Dobson will now speak out on public policy issues with a louder voice than his organization exercised.'' 
 But Dr. Dobson's new venture is likely to compete directly with Focus for donors, listeners and radio stations.
 In his Facebook page announcement, he asked contributors to raise $2 million to get it under way, adding that he hoped they would also continue to support Focus. 
 Paul D. Nelson, a board member with Focus and former chief operating officer, said that he had seen many ministries survive the exit of their founders, but that this situation with Dr. Dobson created a ''big unknown.'' 
 ''Focus on the Family is losing its icon, it's losing its face and its voice,'' said Mr. Nelson, formerly the president of the Evangelical Council for Financial Accountability. ''You have to reinvent yourself, but that reinvention is all about delivery, not about change of values.'' 
 Focus occupies sprawling headquarters in Colorado Springs. It had 1,400 employees at its height in 2002, but has 860 now. Its budget was cut from $160 million in 2008 to $139 million in 2009. The contraction is due not only to the recession, but to Focus's struggle to retain a younger generation of evangelicals who identify it with their parents. 
 A year ago, because of budget cuts, Focus stopped publishing three magazines for Christian teens, Brio, Brio and Beyond, and Breakaway (combined circulation 200,000). On Facebook, their readers mourned the loss. 
 Focus bequeathed the magazines to Ryan Dobson, who beat out a half-dozen competitors. A spokesman for Focus said Mr. Dobson was chosen because his proposal was the only one that did not request the subscription fees, which had already been considered donations to Focus. 
 Ryan Dobson said he would publish the magazines on the Web, but a year later they are little but logos on his Web site. 
 Ryan Dobson, the only son of James and Shirley Dobson (they also have a daughter), was adopted as an infant and says he spent years rebelling against the expectation that he should follow in his father's footsteps. But he eventually found a calling preaching at youth events and formed Kor Ministries.He is as opposed to abortion and homosexuality as his father, but his tone is edgier. Reviewing the first book he co-wrote, ''Be Intolerant: Because Some Things are Just Stupid,'' Publishers Weekly said it had ''all the subtlety of a two-by-four to the side of the head.'' 
 Occasionally Ryan Dobson hosts a podcast, and last week he talked about setting off fireworks, losing the title to his truck and visiting Haiti before the earthquake. Even then, he said, ''It was kind of gnarly.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 19, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about Dr. James Dobson, an influential voice for Christian conservatives who is leaving Focus on the Family, which he founded 33 years ago, to start a radio program that will allow him more leeway to talk about politics, misstated Dr. Dobson's professional credentials. He is a psychologist, not a psychiatrist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Dr. James Dobson in 2008 at a gathering in San Diego to oppose same-sex marriage. His new venture will include his son. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA ALMEIDA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); FAMILY (89%); PARENTING (89%); RELIGION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); SURFING (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); SKATEBOARDING (71%); EXTREME SPORTS (71%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (94%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



460 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1148 words

HEADLINE: A Suburban Treasure, Left to Die

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 A storybook magic hangs about St. Paul's School, a 130-year-old brick palace that seems caught in an evil spell, inching toward a tragic end while ripping this affluent Long Island suburb apart.
 The school stands four stories tall, all red brick, spires and gargoyles, topped by a pitched slate roof and lined with windows hugged by keystones. It looks like the kind of place young Jane Eyres or Harry Potters might race through, and thousands of students did, from the early 1880s until it closed in 1991.
 But now, nearly two decades after Garden City bought St. Paul's and its surrounding athletic fields, the village is considering tearing it down. An environmental review of the proposed demolition is under way, with a vote on whether to pay for it expected in the coming months. 
 The proposal is not a result of a lack of affection for the High Victorian Gothic behemoth, which is listed on the National Register of Historic Places -- the village illuminates St. Paul's at night with spotlights, and dressed it with an outsize Christmas wreath. The people of Garden City just cannot agree what to do with it. 
 Preservationists say the imbroglio underscores just how vulnerable old buildings can be in the suburbs. Individual municipalities hold the primary power in designating landmarks -- the federal and state governments play a limited role -- and St. Paul's has virtually no protection because Garden City has no landmark ordinances. 
 ''The tragedy of St. Paul's is that, here you have this wonderful building, unique on Long Island, something that deserves to be restored, and an inability to get residents to coalesce around a plan,'' said John Mauk, who is on the village's board of trustees. 
 The situation is hardly unusual. Thousands of historically or architecturally significant buildings in the suburbs are similarly unprotected, among them the former Woolworth estate in Glen Cove, N.Y., which is steadily deteriorating, and the sprawling Bell Labs in Holmdel, N.J., built by the master architect Eero Saarinen. ''New York City has very strong landmark laws, whereas it's fragmented in the suburbs,'' said Jeffrey A. Kroessler, a longtime New York City preservationist. ''Each village is independent, each village determines its own destiny, each village will or will not preserve.''
 Many towns resist landmarking for fear of the accompanying owner restrictions. And in suburbs known for new development, preservationists are often battling a general perception that there is nothing historic or worth saving among the cul-de-sacs. ''You have suburban communities now that are 100 years old, and everyone says, 'Oh, there's nothing special about them, because they're the suburbs,' '' Mr. Kroessler said. 
 The recession has not helped. Historic buildings tend to fare better in lean times because fewer developers are tearing them down, according to Richard Moe, president of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. But on the flip side, a recession means fewer dollars for restoring or maintaining old buildings and thus more ''demolition by neglect'' -- a fate that seems to have befallen St. Paul's. 
 Founded by the multimillionaire Alexander Turney Stewart in 1869, Garden City was upscale from the start. It is filled with graceful Victorian homes, and wealth: In 2008, the estimated median household income was $154,766. 
 But this elegant village has already lost several historic buildings. The palatial Garden City Hotel, built by McKim, Mead & White, and where Charles Lindbergh slept the night before his historic flight, was torn down in the 1970s to make way for a boxy replacement. Another, St. Mary's School, for girls, was demolished in 2001 after a long vacancy and a fire.
 ''They're well on the road to the ordinary, unfortunately,'' Mr. Kroessler said of the village. 
 People thought it would be different with St. Paul's, which was built by Mr. Stewart's widow in his honor. The village came to own it in 1993, as part of a prized parcel of 48 acres it bought from the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island for $7.25 million. The chief draw was the land's vast expanse of athletic fields, and a mayor's committee was formed to figure out how best to use St. Paul's.
 Then the arguments began.
 The building needed work. Leaks had riven the slate roof, interior mantelpieces had toppled and plaster chunks had crumbled in its stately halls and stained-glass-lined chapel. Restoration estimates proffered by the village -- and contested by its opponents -- ran into the tens of millions of dollars, which some village leaders felt taxpayers would not or should not shoulder. Public uses for the building -- moving the library there, or the town hall, or a high school -- were abandoned by village leaders in favor of possible private uses. 
 This enraged some residents, who believed that the building should be public and that the village had been deaf to alternate suggested uses. 
 ''The residents have never had the opportunity to provide significant input into an affordable low-cost plan for St. Paul's,'' said Ed Keating, treasurer of the Committee to Save St. Paul's, a group of residents formed out of frustration with the village's handling of the building. ''We believe that it is absolutely essential for it to have some form of public use.''
 Through the years of acrimony, the building stood tall, still solid but beginning to give in to the ravages of time. The leaks worsened, more plaster littered the vast wooden floors and splintery holes appeared on the face of the soaring clock tower. In 2003, the Preservation League of New York State listed the school as an endangered site on its ''Seven to Save'' list.
 The village's last effort to lure in developers ended in December 2008, when, in an opinion poll, residents overwhelmingly voted against a developer's proposal to convert the school into rental apartments. Instead, weary of the fighting, hungry for more open space and daunted by the price of continuing to mothball the building -- the village spends about $100,000 a year on basic maintenance -- a majority of residents voted for demolition. 
 This did not necessarily seal St. Paul's fate: The village must await the environmental review, and vote on whether to pay for the demolition, which could cost upward of $6 million. The preservationists, saying the school is a treasure, are hoping desperately that it can be saved. 
 Yet the village has never been closer to destroying St. Paul's. 
 ''It's their Penn Station,'' said Alexandra Parsons Wolfe of the Society for the Preservation of Long Island Antiquities, referring to New York City's original Pennsylvania Station. That Beaux-Arts masterpiece was torn down in 1963 to make way for Madison Square Garden, to widespread heartbreak.
 ''Everyone wants the same thing,'' Ms. Wolfe said of St. Paul's, ''but they don't want to work together for it.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about St. Paul's School in Garden City, N.Y., a historic building that the village is considering tearing down, referred incorrectly to a vote on its fate. Forty-five percent -- not a majority -- of residents voted for demolition, with the remainder voting to either mothball the building or convert it into apartments.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: UNPROTECTED: A divided Long Island village is moving toward destroying the 130-year-old St. Paul's School.(MB1)
 RAVAGES OF TIME: Weary of the battle over St. Paul's School and daunted by maintenance costs, Garden City residents supported a proposal to demolish it.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBURBS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (88%); HISTORIC SITES (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ORDINANCES (75%); CHRISTMAS (66%)

COMPANY: BELL LABORATORIES (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



461 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; THE PUBLIC EDITOR; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1234 words

HEADLINE: The Sources' Stake in the News

BYLINE: By CLARK HOYT. 
The public editor can be reached by e-mail: public@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN The Times interviewed Michael Chertoff about airport security after the underwear bomber tried to blow up a passenger jet on Christmas Day, he said full-body scanners should be deployed at airports. Chertoff, the former secretary of homeland security, did not volunteer that he is a consultant to a company that makes such equipment, and though they spoke to him twice, reporters never asked if he had a financial stake in the matter.
 Peter Galbraith, a former diplomat, wrote several Op-Ed columns a few years ago supporting a strong and independent Kurdistan. The editors who published his pieces learned only in November -- from a front-page article -- that Galbraith's business ties to a Norwegian oil company operating in Kurdistan positioned him to earn millions. 
 Jonathan Gruber, a prominent M.I.T. health economist, wrote an Op-Ed column and was quoted frequently in other Times columns, news articles and blogs on health care reform before it came to light that he had a contract worth nearly $400,000 to analyze health proposals for the Obama administration. 
 Neil Sadick, a famed Manhattan dermatologist, was quoted in a Skin Deep column discussing electronic devices for the home treatment of acne, but the article did not say that Sadick has a business relationship with a company that makes one of the devices.
 These examples have resulted in five embarrassing editors' notes in the last two months -- two of them last week -- each of them saying readers should have been informed of the undisclosed interest. And on Thursday, the standards editor sent Times journalists a memo urging them to be ''constantly alert'' to the outside interests of expert sources. The cases raised timeless issues for journalists and sources about what readers have a right to know and whose responsibility it is to find it out or disclose it.
 The ideal expert source is entirely independent, with no stake in an outcome. But in reality, the most informed sources often have involvements, which is why they know what they know. Readers are entitled to disclosure so they can decide if there is a conflict that would affect the credibility of the information. 
 But each recent Times case showed how tricky it can be to navigate the ethics of disclosure.
 Chertoff, who championed full-body scanners as head of the Department of Homeland Security, long before he went into private business, said it was no secret that he had become a consultant to corporate clients through the Chertoff Group, a risk-management firm he formed in March. He said that when two Times reporters, Eric Liptonand John Schwartz, called and the subject turned to scanners, it was up to them to ask whether he had ties to that industry. ''I always answer when I'm asked,'' he said. ''But I don't think it is my obligation to put myself in the head of a reporter'' to decide what the reporter needs to know.
 Chertoff did tell NPR and CNN interviewers when they asked. 
 Lipton and Schwartz agreed that they should have asked Chertoff, but both expressed disappointment that he did not volunteer obviously germane information. Bob Steele, a professor at DePauw University and a journalism values scholar at the Poynter Institute, said, ''I believe a source does have an affirmative obligation to reveal any competing loyalties, even if the source isn't sure they create a direct conflict of interest.''
 Interestingly, Chertoff wrote an Op-Ed article for The Washington Post, published New Year's Day, that carried a one-sentence biography divulging that his clients included a scanner manufacturer -- a note he said he volunteered.
 ''If I'm affirmatively getting out there,'' he said, as opposed to being called by a reporter, ''I make it my business to disclose.'' That's a distinction I don't buy. What difference does it make whether a source seeks a forum or a reporter happens to call? Knowing Washington's culture of revolving doors and news spin, the Times reporters should have asked the obvious question. But if Chertoff had a connection he thought the public needed to know in one instance, he should have made it clear in the others. 
 Galbraith said he regretted not telling Times editors that he had business interests in Kurdistan when he wrote Op-Ed columns published in 2005 and 2006. He did provide a vague disclosure for one in 2007. But he disputed the November editors' note that said he could have benefited from an independent Kurdistan because he had a stake in an oil field there. 
 He said his support of an independent Kurdistan was against the interests of DNO International, the oil company with which he had a relationship, because it had invested $300 million in Iraq, expecting it to remain unified. ''I did not promote or discuss matters of specific interest to my clients and, indeed, my generally pessimistic view of Iraq's future was not consistent with the interests of companies trying to attract investors for projects in the country,'' he said.
 Galbraith asked where the line was if an Op-Ed contributor was writing about political issues in a country where he also had economic interests. Because politics and economics so often go hand in hand, I would say someone in his shoes should disclose all interests to editors and discuss whether any pose a conflict that needs to be disclosed to readers. That is what The Times requires of all Op-Ed columnists, in plain, written language.
 Gruber, the health care economist, wrote an Op-Ed column in July supporting an excise tax on so-called Cadillac health plans. Not long before, he had signed a contract with the Department of Health and Human Services to analyze the economic impact of various health care proposals in Congress. He did not tell Op-Ed editors, nor was the contract mentioned on at least 12 other occasions when he was quoted in The Times after he was consulting for the administration. After a blogger reported on Gruber's government contract on the Daily Kos Web site, Gruber did volunteer it to Steven Greenhouse, a Times reporter interviewing him for an article on the excise tax. Greenhouse said he included the fact in a draft but struck it because the article was too long. Greenhouse said that Gruber's views on the tax were so well-known that he did not think they would be influenced by a consulting contract. But had he realized how large the contract was, Greenhouse said, ''I would have stood up and paid lots more attention.''
 Gruber said, ''I guess it never occurred to me that the fact that I was doing technical modeling would matter.'' He said he has long supported the tax and that the administration opposed it when he wrote his column, so he was hardly bending his views to a government paymaster.
 Sometimes, there can be misunderstandings even when a reporter asks. Camille Sweeney, the freelancer who interviewed Sadick about acne treatments, said she asked the dermatologist a specific question: Had he been paid by any manufacturer for tests he performed on the products? He said he had not. But after the article was published, a Times editor recalled seeing an endorsement by Sadick for a hair removal product by one of the manufacturers. 
 What is the lesson from all this? Lipton said, ''I do need to ask whenever I call a person for comment as an expert if they have any financial relationship with the topic.'' He said he has posted a reminder on his computer: ''Ask if hired gun.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (90%); AVIATION SECURITY (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); AIRPORT BODY SCANS & PAT DOWNS (90%); WRITERS (89%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (77%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (76%); CHRISTMAS (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); ETHICS (72%); SKIN DISORDERS (71%); DERMATOLOGY (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); ACNE (66%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (53%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



462 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: For 'Safe' Investors, This May Be a Challenging Year

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
MONEY market funds are paying investors next to nothing.
 More precisely, the 100 biggest funds are now paying 0.05 percent annually, on average, a yield as low as it has ever been, according to Peter G. Crane, the president of Crane Data of Westborough, Mass.
 ''It's so low it's a joke,'' Mr. Crane said. ''At that yield, it would take more than 1,000 years to double your money.'' 
 This microscopic rate of return is part of the continuing fallout of the financial crisis -- a consequence of the very loose monetary policy of the Federal Reserve and other central banks. They have held their benchmark short-term rates at rock-bottom levels while using unorthodox methods, known as ''quantitative easing,'' to restore the health of the global financial system.
 There are many indications that this herculean intervention has been working. In the bond market, though short-term interest rates are still hovering near zero, longer-term rates have been on an upward trajectory since late November. In part, this may be a healthy sign, suggesting that the economy is recovering. But it has also created a very unusual situation for financial markets, and it poses some tricky problems for savers, investors and home buyers. 
 First, how unusual is the current array of interest rates? 
 William H. Gross, the co-chief investment officer of the Pacific Investment Management Company, or Pimco, the world's biggest bond manager, says the gap between short- and long-term rates has rarely been greater. Translated into the parlance of the bond market, the ''yield curve'' has seldom been steeper. 
 ''If you go back in history and look not just in the United States but in global fixed-income markets for several centuries,'' Mr. Gross said, you will rarely find a greater disparity between short- and long-term rates.
 For investors, this can create some hard-to-resist temptations. 
 People who have been holding cash in money market funds or in bank certificates of deposit, for example, may be yearning to buy longer-term bonds instead. United States Treasury bonds with 30-year maturities, for example, yield about 4.5 percent; 10-year Treasuries yield about 3.8 percent. These rates are modest by historical standards but are much more attractive than the negligible yields available in the money markets.
 Watch out, though. Liquidating investments that pay almost nothing in order to shift to long-term bonds that pay substantially more may not make sense right now, said Robert F. Auwaerter, the head of fixed-income investing at the Vanguard Group. 
 ''Right now, investors need to be thinking about interest-rate risk,'' he said. The problem is that interest rates -- at both the short and the long ends of the yield curve -- are likely to rise this year if the economy keeps expanding. 
 When bond yields rise, their prices fall. The effect is magnified for longer-term securities, so a 30-year Treasury bond would fall in value much more sharply than, say, a six-month Treasury bill. A money market fund would benefit as interest rates rise. 
 ''In this environment, I'd be very careful about buying long-maturity bonds,'' Mr. Auwaerter said.
 On the other hand, homeowners and people looking to refinance mortgages might be advised to move now, rather than wait for the markets to settle further. An increase in mortgage rates, which are closely linked to bond yields, is widely expected this year. Furthermore, the mortgage market has been actively supported by the Fed's $1.25 trillion dollar program to buy asset-backed securities. The Fed has said that it intends to end that program at the end of March, though an extension is possible. 
 Vanguard estimates that 30-year fixed mortgage rates could rise by a quarter to a half percentage point simply as a result of the end of the Fed program, Mr. Auwaerter said. An additional increase could be expected if bond yields rise further. Mr. Auwaerter and other analysts say long-term yields are expected to keep rising modestly, and for several reasons: inflation expectations are rising, Treasury sales of long-term bonds to finance the deficit are projected to be greater than ever, and Fed purchases of Treasury securities are expected to decline.
 The average rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage was 5.18 percent last week, according to Bankrate.com. It is likely to rise above 6 percent by year-end, Mr. Auwaerter said. 
 Of course, projecting the direction of interest rates requires a judgment about the economy. At the moment, housing ''is a real wild card,'' said Steven C. Huber, manager of the Strategic Income fund at T. Rowe Price. To prevent the housing market from weakening further, he said, the Fed is likely to unwind its mortgage support program gradually. And he said the Fed was unlikely to raise short-term interest rates until the unemployment rate, now 10 percent, was back in the 9 percent range. 
 STILL, many analysts project that the Fed will raise its benchmark Fed funds rate, bringing it to perhaps 1 percent by year-end. In the same period, the yield on the 10-year Treasury note may rise well above 4 percent, Mr. Gross said. And because of long-term structural deficits in the United States, he said, Treasuries may underperform the sovereign debt of some other countries, like Germany.
 For individuals focused on keeping their investments very safe, it's likely to be a challenging year.
 ''Basically, savers are going to have to suck it up,'' said Mr. Crane at Crane Data. ''Yields are so low that they're getting almost nothing in return, but this is not a time to play offense. Remember, if you're holding a money market fund or a C.D., you're there because you don't want to lose money. This is not the time to take a lot of risks.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); BONDS (89%); LIQUIDATIONS (79%); PERSONAL FINANCE (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); YIELD CURVE (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); MONETARY POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (74%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (67%)

COMPANY: PACIFIC INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT CO (PIMCO) (66%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (50%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



463 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DETROIT AUTO SHOW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1852 words

HEADLINE: Finally, Some Electricity in the Air

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
 THE main hall of the Detroit auto show has long been a place of Machiavellian maneuvers, with powerful carmakers defending their prime turf while banishing the weak and the weird to Cobo Center's basement.
 But this year at the North American International Auto Show -- with brands like Pontiac, Saturn and Saab dead or dying, and high-end manufacturers like Porsche, Rolls-Royce and Aston Martin staying away -- the main hall suddenly had room for Chinese hybrids, Korean electrics and other ''green'' cars whose makers invariably billed themselves as visionaries.
 The mass-market automakers left standing soldiered on, determined to do something to revive morale for the beaten-down industry. And this year's show certainly improved on last year's grim spectacle, which was followed by General Motors' and Chrysler's plunge into bankruptcy and government bailouts. 
 Modestly optimistic that sales have bottomed, the gathered companies could again perform their trickiest balancing act: hedging their green bets so they devote neither too few resources, nor too many, to technologies that could save, distract or bankrupt them, depending on how they roll the dice. 
 For example, judging from the prominence of the 37,000-square-foot Electric Avenue exhibit, an observer might think that most Americans buy hybrids, or that electric cars exist beyond golf-course communities and a handful of upper-crust garages. 
 The cold reality, which G.M. and Chrysler in particular must acknowledge as they seek to serve customers, shareholders, employees -- and now government overseers -- is that nearly 98 percent of Americans choose conventional internal-combustion cars. Hybrids, which still have gasoline engines, account for most of the rest.
 Yet despite the need to sell many more cars in 2011 and beyond, automakers large and small seemed to agree that dazzling, affordable battery vehicles are what's required to rescue the industry, save the planet and get average people excited about cars again.
 Adopting that auto-show story line, automakers took turns declaring a desire to seize electric-car leadership. Jesse Toprak, vice president for industry trends at TrueCar.com, a consumer Web site, said automakers' environmental efforts seem increasingly sincere, driven in part by tough fuel economy standards to take full effect in 2016. 
 The strategy is, ''If I'm forced to produce these green cars, let's figure out a way to make money and make a splash,'' Mr. Toprak said.
 But winning the lead role at auto shows doesn't guarantee stardom in the showroom, especially if gas prices remain tolerable. Most of the production-ready hybrids shown in Detroit will arrive too late to lift near-term sales, Mr. Toprak said. Perhaps counterintuitively, a sales recovery for full-size pickups and crossover S.U.V.'s would be more crucial to an industry rebound, he said.
 ''The reality is that what makes money is still bigger cars and internal combustion engines,'' he said. 
 Over two days of dirt-dry press previews largely bereft of the old Motown razzle-dazzle -- obligatory dance routines at VW and Mini, and the rapper Nelly posing with a custom Mustang were as far as it went -- automakers delivered a small batch of significant cars. 
 Sergio Marchionne, the casual-Fridays boss of Fiat and Chrysler -- perhaps the world's most watched auto executive as he leads Chrysler's latest turnaround effort -- took a Congressional delegation including House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on a professorial tour. 
 Mr. Marchionne could well have skipped the catch-all Chrysler, Dodge, Jeep and Fiat exhibits, where not a single new model was formally introduced. 
 Although Chrysler used to roll out crowd-pleasing concept cars, Audi seems to have taken up that glamorous mantle, delivering the delights that any car-absorbed teenager expects at an auto show: the E-Tron electric sports car concept and two production models, the redesigned A8 flagship sedan and the hedonistic $175,000 R8 Spyder. 
 G.M.'s chairman, Edward Whitacre Jr., was walking the show floor when he responded to a reporter's questions. The Congressional delegation, he said, ''sat in our cars, and they liked what they saw.'' Asked what message he would deliver to Washington, he didn't hesitate, ''We're going to sell a lot of cars, and we're going to pay you back.''
 That's a sentiment, at least the payback part, that Toyota lovers wouldn't argue with -- at least until automakers are healthy enough to fight over every square inch of Cobo once again.
 Here are some of the notable production cars introduced in Detroit:
 FORD FOCUS The long-awaited European-market Focus could end up being the best small car ever from Detroit. On sale in early 2011, the Focus looks smashing as either a sedan or four-door hatchback. This global Focus brings the sophisticated design and engineering that have become common in European compacts, with a 2-liter direct-injection 4-cylinder engine; a 6-speed dual-clutch automated manual; and an upscale interior with the new MyFord Touch system, which uses voice recognition or touch screens to manage cellphones and controls for audio, navigation and climate. Ford has promised an electric Focus in 2011; enthusiasts can expect a turbocharged EcoBoost version. 
 AUDI A8Large and lavish, the 2011 A8 looks to become a stronger factor in a class dominated by Mercedes and BMW. That means big power (a 372-horsepower V-8 and 8-speed automatic), the usual gorgeous Audi cabin and gadgets like night vision, automatic emergency braking and a 1,400-watt, 19-speaker stereo. Standard- and long-wheelbase A8s go on sale in November. 
 HONDA CR-Z Honda's original Insight was America's first hybrid, but its two-seat layout made it a niche car. Honda will try again this summer with the wedge-shape two-seat CR-Z. Based on preliminary specifications -- including a mere 37 m.p.g. in combined city-highway driving -- the CR-Z could end up as a neither-nor model with no special claims for performance or economy.
 TESLA MODEL S Using a $465 million federal green-car loan, Tesla expects to start building the sleek $50,000 Model S sedan in late 2011. Buyers can choose three levels of power, including a standard lithium-ion battery pack with a 160-mile range that lets the Model S run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. in 5.6 seconds. For more money, owners can have 230- or 300-mile battery packs.
 MERCEDES E-CLASS CABRIOLET On the salon-buffed heels of its E-Class coupe, Mercedes adds a softtop convertible that seems engineered for sunny days and shopping, at least for those who can afford $60,000 to $75,000 cars. The four-seat Cabriolet features AirCap, a wind diffuser that rises from the top of the windshield to keep hairdos in place. 
 BMW Z4 SDRIVE 35IS For now, BMW is disclaiming any hot-rod ''M'' version of its Z4 roadster. But the next best thing may be the 35is that goes on sale early next year with a turbocharged in-line 6 rated at 335 horsepower.
 BMW ACTIVE E Billed as a concept, the ActiveE is similar to the electric-powered 1 Series coupe that BMW will lease to specially selected Americans for field trails next year. Like the 450 Mini-E's currently operating in the United States, the ActiveE is part of BMW's Project i initiative that seeks to develop emissions-free city vehicles.
 CADILLAC CTS-V COUPE G.M. has taken the supercharged 556-horsepower V-8 from the CTS-V sedan and dropped it into a provocative two-door body. The coupe goes on sale this summer. 
 LINCOLN MKXThe revised crossover will reach dealerships this summer with modest updates -- most crucially, a 3.7-liter, 305-horsepower V-6. But the Lincoln's reason for being at the show was its MyLincoln Touch system, an expanded version of Ford's Sync controls that features e-mail access.
 BYD E6 Build Your Dreams of China, whose loopy promises -- it aims to be the world's largest automaker by 2025 -- have made eyes roll in Detroit in the past, rolled out its latest doozy: the e6 is an electric crossover that BYD promises to be in American dealerships by year-end. No one outside the company seemed to be buying it.
 CT&T C SQUARE It may look like a kit car from the '80s, but CT&T of South Korea insists that the electric sports car will be offered for about $50,000 in the United States -- through a network of 40 retail and assembly facilities -- this year. 
 Automakers also unveiled these concept cars and design studies that could someday end up in showrooms: 
 AUDI E-TRON Perhaps the most dazzling car unveiled in Detroit -- for both its petite-supercar looks and its possibilities -- the E-Tron previews an expected Audi R4 production car that could spawn midengine variants from VW and Porsche. In concept form, this little brother to the previous E-Tron -- that car resembled the exotic R8 -- featured an electric powertrain with a 155-mile range. The real R4 would probably start life with a turbo 4-cylinder gas engine and a price in the $30,000 range. 
 BUICK REGAL GS The Regal may have been the sleeper car of the show, though it was just what some critics say Detroit needs: a Euro-designed family sedan with a potent yet efficient turbo-4 engine. A sibling of the Opel Insignia, the Regal GS may reach market in 2011.
 CHEVROLET AVEO RS Expected to replace the Daewoo-based Aveo now sold by Chevy, this slightly larger car is a preview of a Michigan-built sedan and hatchback due next year.
 TOYOTA FT-CH Toyota will put the Prius name on a production version of this eye-friendly hybrid two feet shorter than the regular Prius. The FT-CH may reach dealers by 2012 and deliver more than 60 m.p.g. for less than $20,000.
 VOLKSWAGEN NEW COMPACT COUPE Like VW's acclaimed CC sedan, the N.C.C. cribs styling from pricier brands. But as with the CC, a lack of originality doesn't detract from the VW's luxurious detailing and ready-to-market design. The hybrid concept car is likely to spawn a four-door gas-powered sedan to be built in Chattanooga, Tenn. 
 GMC GRANITE This urban trucklet addressed a main issue facing GMC: how to expand and remain relevant when fewer Americans are buying its work-focused ''professional grade'' trucks. Chunky and chockablock with smart details, the Granite is a foot shorter than the Honda Civic sedan.
 MINI BEACHCOMBER CONCEPT A warm breeze of style blew into Detroit with the Beachcomber, inspired by the Mini Moke of the '60s and almost assuredly based on Mini's coming crossover. 
 CADILLAC XTS PLATINUM Looking like a CTS sedan writ large, this potential replacement for the STS and DTS could go on sale in late 2011. The concept had a deluxe cabin, all-wheel drive and the two-mode plug-in hybrid system that G.M. had intended to install in the defunct Saturn Vue. Analysts said a production XTS would go on sale with a gasoline V-6; any hybrid version would come later.
 HYUNDAI BLUE-WILL Hyundai will offer its first hybrid this year, a gas-electric Sonata sedan with the market's first lithium-polymer battery pack. But Hyundai also showed the Blue-Will, a plug-in hybrid hatchback with lithium-polymer batteries and a 1.6-liter range-extending gasoline engine.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: DON'T CALL IT DeVILLE: Cadillac XTS Platinum, a preview of the car that will replace the large STS and DTS sedans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REBECCA COOK/REUTERS)
PRIUS'S LITTLE BROTHER: FT-CH is a design study for a smaller Toyota hybrid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU1)
SIGHTS AT THE SHOW: Hyundai Blue-Will, top, a plug-in hybrid concept car
small GMC Granite crossover, left
and Audi's latest, smaller E-Tron sports car. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
STAN HONDA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES
 BILL PUGLIANO/GETTY IMAGES) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TRADE SHOWS (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); CELEBRITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); SPORTS CARS (71%); TRENDS (69%); BAILOUTS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (63%); GASOLINE PRICES (63%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); TRUECAR INC (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS519190 ALL OTHER INFORMATION SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



464 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Blue Skies

BYLINE: By DANIEL W. DREZNER. 
Daniel W. Drezner is a professor of international politics at Tufts University and blogs for Foreign Policy magazine. His latest book is ''All Politics Is Global.''

 BODY:
SONIC BOOM
 Globalization at Mach Speed
 By Gregg Easterbrook
 243 pp. Random House. $26
 America could use a truly Whiggish book right about now. More than a year into the Great Recession, it has become much harder to believe in the idea of inexorable progress. The moment is ripe for a counterintuitive, optimistic perspective that shows, despite appearances to the contrary, that the world is getting better and better every day, in every way. Gregg Easterbrook tries hard to satiate our inner optimist with ''Sonic Boom.'' 
 This book is a natural sequel to ''The Progress Paradox'' (2004). There, Easterbrook explained why Americans were so despondent even though their quality of life had improved dramatically over the past generation. In ''Sonic Boom,'' his principal thesis is that the 2008 financial crisis is merely a modest hiccup in a larger trend of ''growth, change and transformation at unprecedented velocity.'' Once the recession is over, he argues, rapid innovation and globalization will reassert themselves. Acknowledging the stresses renewed change will bring, Easterbrook nevertheless believes that the pluses vastly outweigh the minuses. 
 A prolific writer for The Atlantic and The New Republic, Easterbrook knows how to capture a popular audience, as anyone familiar with his Tuesday Morning Quarterback column for ESPN.com is aware. But there are many problems with ''Sonic Boom,'' beginning with its title and central metaphor. Easterbrook argues that globalization is indeed like a sonic boom: ''noisy, superfast, covering huge amounts of territory.'' Unfortunately, that description better fits Easterbrook's writing style than his subject matter. At times, his prose reads like an unholy mixture of management-consultese and game-show host patter (''Quickly, what is Hutchinson Whampoa? The company is the world's largest operator of ports.'') 
 Later, Easterbrook describes sonic booms as ''pleasing,'' which explains one source of the problem -- I'm pretty sure he is alone in attaching such an alluring adjective to such a loud noise. Rummaging around in Thomas Friedman's discarded metaphor bin is never a good idea, a fact that seems to dawn on Easterbrook halfway through this book. Sonic booms make fewer appearances in the later pages.
 As for the rest of the arguments here, Easterbrook tends to contradict himself or make sweeping declarations that don't hold up to scrutiny. At one point, he writes that the Internet is largely responsible for ''much faster, more compelling and more accurate news.'' Fine, except that just a paragraph earlier he characterizes the Internet as ''a source of befuddlement rather than enlightenment.'' Easterbrook makes both statements with equal conviction, leaving the reader himself a bit befuddled. He similarly goes back and forth on the utility of alternative energy subsidies and neoclassical economic theory. 
 Even more puzzling are some of his blanket assertions. For example, he flatly states that ''no nation has backslid toward tyranny'' since the end of the cold war. Now, Stalinism might not be making a comeback, but it's hard to characterize recent developments in Venezuela, China or Russia as the flowering of liberty.
 Perhaps the central problem with ''Sonic Boom'' is the tension between its themes. Easterbrook is smart enough to acknowledge that the accelerating pace of innovation will create major disruptions in the organization of the global economy. At the same time, he believes that globalization is so powerful a macrotrend that no shock can stop it. Writers like Norman Angell held similar beliefs before the start of World War I -- and it took three generations before the global economy became as interconnected again. 
 What's missing from ''Sonic Boom'' is any discussion of politics. Will aggrieved actors try to thwart future innovations as we have seen with stem cell research or genetically modified foods? I suspect that Easterbrook's conjectures are probably correct -- but I study this stuff for a living. ''Sonic Boom'' will not persuade either the pessimistic or the uninformed. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%)

COMPANY: ESPN INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

TITLE: Sonic Boom: Globalization at Mach Speed (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



465 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; GENERATION B; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: On Vacation and Looking for Wi-Fi

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINERIP. 
E-mail: generationb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
FOR several years, our extended family -- 19 of us -- has taken a holiday vacation in the tropics. Typically we go to an all-inclusive resort.
 As a younger man -- when I hitchhiked across Europe, camped in the United States Virgin Islands, rented a bungalow in Mexico -- I would have dismissed a resort vacation as highly bogus. But we're now middle-aged with insanely busy lives, and what this kind of vacation gives our extended family, which reaches from New York to Seattle, Chicago to Florida, is a chance for three generations to be together, to move at a slower pace, to enjoy one another's company.
 We eat most meals together and play together. Grandpa and the uncles golf; Grandma and the aunts play tennis; my sons surf with their Uncle Pick; I snorkel with my 13-year-old nephew Charlie. And mostly, we talk and talk. 
 We represent a pretty fair mix of white-collar jobs: an insurance executive, a regional sales manager for an office furniture company, a retail chain executive, a partner in a commercial real estate firm, a home builder, a lawyer, a teacher -- and my wife and me, journalists. As we talked, it was clear that while we all felt lucky to still have jobs, there wasn't one of us whose business hadn't been seriously wounded by this not-so Great Recession.
 And yet, even as business has slowed, we have been speeded up, and the dead giveaway was the growth of laptops in paradise. Five years ago, in Barbados, none of us consulted a computer. Three years ago, in Costa Rica, a few family members walked to an Internet cafe and checked our e-mail one afternoon just for the novelty of being online in a faraway place.
 This year I stood in a long line in the lobby of this resort in the Dominican Republic, to wait my turn to sign up for 25 hours of Internet service for $25. Several in the family brought laptops and we checked our work e-mail daily.
 It almost seems like a dream from long ago, but I can remember coming back from vacation and sitting at my desk that first day and doing nothing but catching up -- on my mail, on the back newspapers, on office politics. Nor did anyone press me. It was understood: I was in a 24-hour vacation decompression zone.
 Now, we keep up on vacation, we keep up on weekends (my incoming work e-mail suggests we also keep up past midnight on weekdays). And on Monday morning, we hit the ground running.
 These days, rarely do I receive one of those automated e-mail responses saying, ''Sorry I'm on vacation, I'll answer when I return.''
 We expect ourselves to be available.
 Whether we want to or not, most boomers have had to embrace technology. But the promise that it's making our lives easier? A lie. Indeed, I'm convinced the opposite is true, that we're working harder.
 That's the case in my own reporter's world. Twenty-five years ago it wasn't unusual for me to call the research department at the newspaper once a week for help. Now, I may call twice a year. Now, I'm expected to use all the wonderful online research tools at my fingertips.
 And yet the core of my job -- going out and talking in person to strangers about their stories -- has not changed at all, is no easier. I heard the same thing from my brothers-in-law in real estate and office furniture, and from my father-in-law in insurance. They still must travel by car, taxi, subway, plane, and meet the clients to build the bonds that close the sales at the core of their labor. It's the central lesson George Clooney, the baby boomer, teaches the 20-something Ivy League techno-whiz in the film ''Up in the Air'' -- even if your job is firing people, to do it right (and by the way, contain liability claims) you need to look 'em in the eye, and Skype won't do.
 On a Friday, we landed back at J.F.K., an airport with a baggage claim system so spectacularly dysfunctional, you're instantly transported from paradise to the brutalities of daily life.
 On Sunday, I drove through a snowstorm to spend an afternoon interviewing a couple for my next column.
 I want to be clear: no complaints here. I work in an industry that's bleeding jobs. In the last year, for my articles, I've interviewed hundreds of unemployed boomers face-to-face. There isn't a time I don't think, there but for the grace of God ...
 Still, for those of us left standing, the workplace is growing tougher, as I tried to confirm through my e-mail messages and calls to the Bureau of Labor Statistics on the Monday morning after vacation.
 In the third quarter of 2009 (the latest for which data was available), at a time when unemployment grew from to 9.8 percent from 9.4, business productivity grew at an annual rate of 8.1 percent, the highest since 2003. We were doing more with less. And while productivity is a broad economic term, and can be influenced by numerous factors including capital investment and the organization of production, one important variable is ''effort of the work force,'' i.e. -- all that laptop tapping we do on vacations, weekends and 'round midnight.
 Even more striking to me is the government's predictions about what is going to happen to us boomers in the workplace over the next decade as we reach what used to be considered retirement age.
 A lot of us will go right on working.
 In 1988, when the World War II greatest generation was hitting retirement age, 11.5 percent of people 65 and older were still working. By 2008, 16.8 percent of those 65 and older were working, and by 2018, when those 65 and over will be mostly boomers, 22.4 percent are expected to still be working, according to a new study by Mitra Toossi, an economist with the Bureau of Labor Statistics.
 She projects that by 2018, 14 percent of 79-year-olds -- 1 in 7 -- will still work, versus 6.1 percent in 1988 (1 in 16). ''It is an amazing change in a short time,'' Ms. Toossi said.
 Some of this is good -- we're healthier and want to work longer. Some is social policy -- a change is now in progress in the age when people are able to retire with full Social Security benefits, from 65 to 67.
 And some is just really bad news. The economic downturn has depleted retirement and savings accounts and that means many will have no choice.
 For the time being, lots of us are staying in condition to work until we're 79 by keeping at it on vacations and weekends.
 One of the people whose e-mail messages I answered from paradise was Allan Goldstein, 60, a college professor from Manhattan. He wrote that he had a possible column idea for me. In my e-mail messages back, I didn't tell him I was in paradise -- didn't want him to think I had better things to do than write him. I didn't want him to envision this reporter living the fat life in the tropics, while he was freezing in New York City.
 On a Wednesday at 5:17 p.m. I e-mailed him, suggesting we speak by phone on Friday (when I'd be home).
 ''Hi Mike,'' he e-mailed back 16 minutes later. ''I return from St. Croix on Friday evening. O.K. if we talk over the weekend?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY SYLVIA BORS/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESORTS (90%); FAMILY (89%); LAPTOP COMPUTERS (86%); LEISURE TRAVEL (78%); REAL ESTATE (74%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (72%); OFFICE DESIGN (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); WIRELESS INTERNET ACCESS (68%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); OFFICE FURNITURE (67%); RETAILERS (67%); TERRITORY MANAGEMENT (67%); EXECUTIVES (67%); WRITERS (65%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (92%); BARBADOS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); COSTA RICA (79%); VIRGIN ISLANDS, U.S. (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



466 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; BACKDROP; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 101 words

HEADLINE: Sure, Flying Is Less Fun, But Also Less Pricey

 BODY:
Once glamorous, air travel has turned into a slog of security rules, long waits and cramped limbs. This is partly because so many more people fly today. In 1940, passenger planes in the United States carried only 3 million people, compared with 17 million in 1950 and about 650 million in 2008, according to FareCompare.com. Keep in mind, too, that in the early 1980s, shortly after deregulation, many of the cheaper domestic roundtrip tickets sold for $250 to $300, and the same is true today, said Rick Seaney, C.E.O. of FareCompare.com. So, adjusted for inflation, the cost of air travel has actually fallen. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption with the Backdrop feature last Sunday about the history of air travel misidentified an Eastern Airlines plane photographed in the 1930s. It was a DC-2, not a DC-3.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Aeromarine West Indies Airways ''flying boat'' in New York in 1920, bound for Florida and the West Indies. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AIRCRAFT YEARBOOK, 1921)
Pan Am offered breakfast in bed in the '40s and movies in 1965. Below, a passenger checked a flight board at Minneapolis on Sept. 17, 2001. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PAN AMERICAN AIRWAYS
UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL
CRAIG LASSIG/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)
Walter Varney owned a local airline in the 1920s and later co-founded Continental. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AIRCRAFT YEARBOOK, 1922)
A Pan Am Clipper seaplane left, and an Eastern Airlines DC-3, center, in the 1930s. In 1969, Boeing dwarfed its 707 with the 747. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY THE NEW YORK TIMES
PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS)
 Preparing for the security checkpoint at Los Angeles International Airport on Dec. 29 last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO ANZUONI/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL TICKETS (86%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (85%); DEREGULATION (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



467 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 508 words

HEADLINE: Trial by Ferry

BYLINE: By JULIE MENIN. 
Julie Menin is the chairwoman of Community Board 1, which covers Lower Manhattan and Governors Island.

 BODY:
There is nothing wrong with holding the trial of the man who has described himself as the mastermind of 9/11, Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, in federal court in New York. But there is something wrong with spending upward of $200 million per year on security for a multiyear trial and disrupting the lives of people who have homes and jobs in Lower Manhattan, where the trial is to be held. Fortunately, there is a relatively easy solution to this problem: Governors Island. 
 Conducting the Mohammed trial there would not be the first time the 172-acre island, situated in the East River off Lower Manhattan, has been used for law enforcement. Before the federal government sold the island to New York State in 2003, it had long been a military installation. During the Civil War, enlisted Confederate soldiers were imprisoned in its fortress-like Castle Williams; officers were held in Fort Jay (at the time called Fort Columbus). After the Civil War, Castle Williams was a military stockade. British and American forces used the island for more than 200 years precisely because it was so easy to secure. 
 Residents of Lower Manhattan who live close to the federal courthouse where the trial is to be held have rightly expressed concern about the safety measures that will be needed. They argue persuasively that a community that has already dealt with some of the worst aspects of the aftermath of the 9/11 attacks -- years of rebuilding, environmental hazards and security checkpoints -- should not have to face additional burdens. This epic courtroom drama, they say, should not be played out in the midst of a dense residential and office neighborhood. 
 Mayor Michael Bloomberg and elected officials like Senator Charles Schumer correctly insist that the federal government pay for the entire cost of the trials. However, they have not addressed the central question of whether, in the midst of an economic recession, it makes sense for anyone to spend more than $200 million on security. 
 Enough questions have been raised that it is worth urging Attorney General Eric Holder to vet other locations for the federal trial -- beyond the courthouse -- and to reassess costs and security issues with the police. 
 As part of that vetting, Governors Island should be given serious consideration. The island has no residents and few office workers. Access is by ferry only, which should enhance security and thus potentially reduce costs. 
 Though a trial date has not yet been set, Mr. Holder needs to move swiftly to ensure that the Governors Island option receives thorough consideration. Preserving the values of democracy and the rule of law are of the utmost importance, and a federal trial in New York, which I fully support, certainly accomplishes that. Let us show the world that these values are of paramount importance not by imposing an extravagant ring of steel around a community that is still rebounding from 9/11, but rather by selecting a far safer, less expensive and arguably more appropriately historic location. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (75%); MILITARY BASES (74%); TERRORISM (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (72%); ARMED FORCES (69%); RECESSION (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); ERIC HOLDER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



468 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1312 words

HEADLINE: Credit Cards And Reluctant Regulators

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
ANYONE wondering how consumer rights might be faring in the Washington debate over financial regulatory reform has a lot to consider theses days.
 For example, the Federal Reserve Board published its final rules on credit card practices last week, requiring new disclosures and banning some abusive practices that have been immensely lucrative for the banking industry. 
 Among the regulations going into effect next month are these: Credit card issuers can't jack up interest rates for the ensuing 12 months after an account is opened -- and if your rate does go up after that, it will apply only to new charges, not an existing balance.
 Credit card issuers are concerned, of course, that these rules will crimp their profits. So some companies are devising creative ways to generate new revenue. 
 An example is Alliance Data Systems, a big issuer of private-label credit cards like those that specialty stores offer. It has decided to levy a $1 monthly surcharge to customers who choose to receive account statements by mail. 
 Proof, yet again, that if you close the door, they will come in through the window. And if you close the window, they blow through the door.
 The $1 statement fee from Alliance certainly seems to flout the spirit of both the Fed's regulations and the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009. But because it is labeled a statement fee, it does not appear to violate the letter of the law, which barred credit card issuers from levying separate fees when a consumer submitted a payment, whether ''by mail, electronic transfer, telephone authorization, or other means, unless such payment involves an expedited service by a service representative of the creditor.''
 Asked about the practice, a spokeswoman for Alliance Data Systems said the company is ''a credible, responsible public company that prides itself on upholding sound, ethical business practices, and adhering to the Credit Card Act is no exception.''
 William Ryan, an analyst at Portales Partners in New York, said the $1 statement fee wasn't a surprise, given Alliance's business model.
 ''A disproportionate part of Alliance Data Systems' yield comes from penalty fees,'' he said, ''so by default they would be more proportionately impacted by the Credit Card Act than an American Express that caters to higher-end customers.'' 
 Mr. Ryan estimates that the company's $4 billion in assets generate $400 million a year in penalty fees. If half of that vanished as a result of the Credit Card Act, the company's per-share earnings could drop by $2.25. Mr. Ryan estimates that Alliance earned $3.02 a share in 2009. 
 TO be sure, Alliance is not the only company working to mitigate the effects of new credit card restrictions. And that makes it all the more imperative that such attempts by card issuers be met with an aggressive regulatory response. 
 That, however, would be a lot to ask, given that the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency is tasked with enforcing the new rules at most card issuers. This institution not only failed in its oversight of risky practices at Citigroup, to cite just one case -- it more recently objected to one of the sound credit card rules the Fed is putting into effect.
 ''The O.C.C. to the end fought the rules and tried to get huge exceptions, carrying water again for the large banks they were regulating,'' said Travis B. Plunkett, legislative director for the Consumer Federation of America. ''Now they have to enforce this law that they disagreed with.''
 Mr. Plunkett recalled that John C. Dugan, the head of the comptroller's office, sent a letter to the Fed about a year ago recommending that it carve out of the credit card rules some of the same items opposed by the banks. One major issue that the comptroller's office argued against was the ban on retroactive interest rate increases; it argued that banks should be allowed to raise rates more quickly on potentially risky consumers.
 Bob Garsson, a spokesman for the comptroller's office, said: ''We felt the restrictions could have a perverse effect over time of making credit more expensive to more people if banks have a more limited ability to reprice based on changes to the consumer's risk profile.'' 
 The option recommended by the comptroller's office would have required advance notice to consumers and would have given them the chance to opt out, Mr. Garsson said. He said the agency viewed that as a reasonable compromise. 
 Happily, the Fed ignored this argument. 
 I asked the comptroller's office if the new rules meant that it would hire additional examiners for enforcement purposes. Mr. Garsson said the agency's ranks were adequately staffed. 
 Whether the office will pursue companies flouting the spirit or the letter of the new rules is an important question because consumers do not have a right in all cases to sue companies that violate the rules.
 Such lawsuits can act as a governor on dubious behavior, but consumers and others can't bring suits involving certain practices covered by the regulations. (Junk fees like those for submitting payments, for example, are among the areas where regulators alone may have policing power.) 
 Mr. Dugan continues to be in the big banks' corner on other matters as well. As a member of the board of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, he attended a meeting the F.D.I.C. convened last Tuesday to consider a rule that would allow it to examine executive compensation programs at banks as part of its risk-based assessment system. 
 At the public meeting, members of the F.D.I.C. staff detailed their reasons for considering the new rule. Among the arguments: risky compensation plans had been ''a contributing factor'' in recent bank failures, according to the F.D.I.C.'s inspector general. 
 The rule proposal passed the board of the F.D.I.C. with two dissents, one of them from Mr. Dugan. He said that it was ''premature'' for the F.D.I.C. to weigh in on executive pay at insured banks, adding that both Congress and the Federal Reserve Board were developing their own compensation guidance. 
 ''It would be very unfortunate to have an end result where insured institutions and perhaps their holding companies were subject to inconsistent schemes evaluating the risk of their executive compensation programs,'' he said at the meeting.
 Sheila Bair, who heads the F.D.I.C., retorted: ''To suggest this agency should not do anything when there is such an overwhelming amount of evidence that this is a clearly a contributor to the crisis and to losses we are suffering, I just cannot understand that.''
 Make that two of us. And doesn't the notion of waiting for the Fed or Congress to write rules on executive pay at banks sound an awful lot like the approach regulators took in the subprime lending arena? 
 Declaring that all agencies have to agree before any action can be taken is a time-honored way to ensure that nothing happens. 
 None of this is a surprise, mind you. But it does reinforce the need for a consumer protection agency that has the teeth to police financial institutions' offerings. For years, consumer protection has been of little interest to the major financial regulatory agencies, with the exception of the F.D.I.C. 
 THERE is no reason to believe that this mind-set will change, given that the same folks who failed to rein in abusive practices years ago are still in place at these shops. And it is just plain boneheaded to entrust consumer protection to agencies run by people who seem to care more about the interests of the financial institutions they regulate. 
 Opponents of the Consumer Financial Protection Agency, which is part of the financial reform working its way through Congress, say that such a thing smacks of ''the nanny state.'' But isn't that preferable to ''the pirate state'' that brought this economy to its knees? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); ETHICS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (76%); BUSINESS ETHICS (74%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (69%); PRIVATE LABELS (68%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (60%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (58%); ALLIANCE DATA SYSTEMS CORP (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (58%); ADS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (58%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



469 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; SQUARE FEET THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: Jonathan F. P. Rose

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Rose, 58, is the founder and president of the Jonathan Rose Companies, which specializes in sustainable development. The company is involved in both nonprofit and for-profit projects and is one of the largest developers of affordable housing in New York City.
 Mr. Rose also runs the Rose Smart Growth Real Estate Investment Fund. 
 Q. Tell me about your business. 
 A. We have five areas of work: public policy, planning, project management, development and investment.
 On the policy side, we work to create government programs that will make healthier cities. For example, we have a consulting agreement with the E.P.A. to enhance smart growth.
 Our planning work is focused on environmental issues and on low-income housing and neighborhoods. We wrote a plan for the South Bronx Greenway to make it economically viable, and we're doing work with Newark on the Passaic River waterfront.
 On the project-management side, we partner with cities and not-for-profits. We're working with N.Y.U. Polytechnic in Brooklyn to re-envision that campus.
 As developers, half our work is with not-for-profits. We also do projects for our own account. We're co-developers of an apartment building called the Tapestry, on 124th Street and Second Avenue. And in our investment fund, we're buying buildings all across the country, including New York.
 Q. Do you make much money on nonprofit projects? 
 A. Yes. As a company we have this very diversified strategy. The policy work is the part that makes very, very little money. The planning work makes a little more money. The development work is even more profitable, and the investment fund really provides us a bigger asset base.
 Q. What are the returns for your investors? 
 A. We're currently distributing between 2 and 3 percent -- that's the check we're writing every quarter. For a variety of reasons that will go up in the next year.
 Q. What is the status of Metro Green, a green affordable housing complex in Stamford that you are developing with Malkin Holdings? 
 A. Metro Green has three buildings -- right next to the Stamford train station. We completed the first one, which is 50 units, in September and it's 100 percent leased. The second Metro Green project begins next summer, then the third one sometime later. We'll probably be a LEED gold apartment building.
 Q. What types of green features are you putting into your buildings? 
 A. One of the things we love to do is buy undermanaged buildings, which very often have poor temperature controls. So we're not only putting in digital control systems, we're adding a control valve to every radiator where one may be missing, We're using much lower electricity.
 We'll use low-V.O.C. paints, bigger windows and much more energy-efficient heating and air-conditioning systems. We'll put ceiling fans in most of our units.
 Sometimes, too, it's not just what you install but how you use it. We'll use integrated pest management that lowers toxicity for residents, and green cleaning materials. We also recycle our construction and building waste.
 Q. Anything new you might be considering? 
 A. We're beginning to look at feedback systems to help people better understand their energy use. The very newest thing I heard about was literally just yesterday -- it's a technology for putting an IP address on every outlet in apartments so that you could actually track energy use, and you feed that back to a resident. A resident can see the impact, for example, of leaving the large-screen TV on stand-by all the time. I'd love to start experimenting with this.
 Q. Is sustainable building more expensive? 
 A. No. We spend about 1 percent more to make a building between LEED silver and gold. And there's just a huge amount of data that shows that we can typically reduce energy use by about 30 percent simply by very inexpensive ways, and in some ways by paying better attention. Typically we're focusing on four- to five-year paybacks.
 Q. To what do you attribute your interest in smart growth and sustainable development? 
 A. I am very lucky to have come from a family of real estate developers, and so I grew up learning the craft from my father.
 My family is also very philanthropic and I really grew up understanding the great joy one gets from giving back and also the many ways that you could help a community.
 I started this company 20 years ago with me and my secretary, and we're now 70 people and managing $1.5 billion of work.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TINA FINEBERG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LAND USE PLANNING (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); GREEN BUILDING (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); PUBLIC HOUSING (77%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (77%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



470 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; DESIGN NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1353 words

HEADLINE: M.P.G. Standards Loom, So Designers Look Afar

BYLINE: By PHIL PATTON

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
 IT wasn't a particular look or style that dominated the conversations of designers at the 2010 Detroit auto show, and it wasn't a buzzword like retro or kinetic or flame-surfaced. It was the shadow of a number: 35.5. 
 That number is not the median age of the United States population, which is 36.7 years and rising, according to the government. Rather, 35.5 is miles per gallon, the required fleet average fuel economy that automakers must achieve in 2016 under the Obama administration's rules. 
 But like the age number, the 35.5 figure is culturally, socially and economically important. It is a mandate that not just engineers, but designers as well, must deal with. The number reflects concerns over consumption and carbon. 
 It is also a number, the automakers' displays suggest, that has spurred designers to look around the world for new ideas, looks, lessons, materials and philosophies. Designers, especially those at Detroit-based companies, are being pressed to join the global community and move away from creating cars tailored to a domestic market whose roads, distances and fuel prices kept engines and cars large. No longer can the United States be the odd country out. 
 The shift began long ago on other continents. European and Asian governments dealt with economy-crippling fuel crises by taxing engine displacement and fuel itself, affecting the looks and shapes of cars. Detroit shifted only grudgingly, first with the visual trick called downsizing, then with the rebadging of imports. 
 The input from abroad was evident all around Cobo Center, where two days of press introductions began last Monday. Ford, the most successful of the Detroit automakers at the moment, emphasized smaller cars. It brought the new Focus from Europe to join the Fiesta, a subcompact that will be in showrooms later this year. 
 General Motors introduced the Aveo RS concept, a look at the design future of the smallest car Chevrolet now offers, and it showed the Spark, an even smaller car it will sell. Both were based heavily on input from G.M.'s Korean studios. 
 The first Aveo, said Dave Lyon, G.M.'s executive director for North American interior and global cross-brand design, was actually an Italian design for a Korean client -- specifically, the work of Giorgetto Giugiaro's Italdesign firm for Daewoo -- that was modified by Detroit. It was something of an afterthought. 
 Now, in the new global era of 35.5, the Aveo is being rethought and redesigned. The next Aveo, to be built in Michigan, must sell well for G.M. to meet the future fleet mileage requirements. 
 The Aveo and the Spark are hatchbacks, a shape that American buyers, in the era of 35.5, will get used to. The world's automakers can offer lessons in building and selling the hatchbacks and compact cars that the auto industry categorizes as premium small, or small cars with the amenities of large ones. 
 ''That is well established in Europe,'' said Stefan Sielaff, head of design at Audi. The A1 small car his studios are planning now, he said, will accommodate many of the high tech elements of the A8 luxury sedan -- a car with considerable dashboard real estate devoted to its telematics display screen -- that won the Eyes on Design award here for the best new production car. 
 Another lesson of the Detroit show: in the era of 35.5, design innovation will happen inside the vehicle at least as much as outside. There were abundant signs that for all the innovations in automotive technology, the automobile is losing its once-central status in the world of tech. 
 The car, as a vehicle of mythology and dream, avatar of personal expression and symbol of social mobility, now has a rival in digital communication technology. Younger buyers, designers frequently note, now invest more of their personalities in their electronics than in their cars. 
 A natural response for car designers is to add more electronics to the car itself. But more subtle lessons for car designers may lie in the cultures of the digital world: in video games and interfaces. 
 The Focus exterior makes small look agile -- it is a witty and subtle design. But Ford's group vice president for design, J Mays, brushed over all that. He insisted on showing off the new Focus literally from inside the car. Seated in the passenger seat, he said that ''the next big thing is H.M.I.,'' using the abbreviation for human-machine interface. 
 Touch or voice, that interface to automotive electronics has become a focus of controversy as well as innovation and commercial competition. 
 It was significant that for Ford, the Detroit show figured almost as an afterthought to its appearance at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas this month, where Alan Mulally, the company's chief executive, delivered the opening keynote address. 
 The electronic interface, as seen on a prominent touch-screen dashboard, was big at Cadillac, too. Once, the unveiling of a new full-size Cadillac would have been all about V-8 performance and chrome, but this year the boasts came from inside. 
 ''Designed from the inside out,'' is how Bryan Nesbitt, the designer-turned-Cadillac-brand-chief, described the Cadillac XTS Platinum concept. It is the lightly disguised large Caddy of the future, expected to replace both the STS and DTS sedans. 
 ''The interface and console are the new battleground,'' Mr. Lyon of G.M. said. ''We have more guys working on that than the exteriors.'' 
 Of course Detroit has been borrowing from the rest of the world for a long time. But the new global designs of the 35.5 era go a long way beyond the philosophy exemplified in G.M.'s old Geo nameplate, under which G.M. sold imports in the 1980s. 
 Today's globalism takes a new form. Buick borrowed from Opel, taking the Euro-market Insignia as the basis for its new Regal, representing its bid to restore some sense of sportiness to an aging customer demographic. Despite being Americanized, it retains a European flavor. 
 ''There is a very European flavor at the show,'' Phillip Zaks, chief designer at Hyundai's North American design center, said. But it is not unalloyed imitation. The Hyundai Tucson grew out of ideas developed in California, but it was completed in the Korean firm's European studio. 
 The role of electrics and hybrids in achieving 35.5 is critical. A very different approach to an electric was Hyundai's swoopy, droop-mawed Blue-Will, which appeared to have drawn global design lessons from a planet beyond earth.
 Then there was the company that was there but not there: Chrysler. 
 Yes, Chrysler and its brands were represented; it was just that they had no new designs. There was the company's elegant white display area, dotted with colorful badges and slinky models in red togas and chain-mail metal dresses. There was a mystery car -- apparently a Lancia Delta with a Chrysler grille -- without label, press conference or press release. The future Fiats and Lancias that will be made into Dodges and Chryslers may be here in 2012 -- in time for the beginning of the phase-in of the 35.5 m.p.g. regulations. 
 Volkswagen offered a different take on the world of 35.5, hinting at cars designed primarily for the United States market that will be produced in a new factory under construction in Chattanooga, Tenn. The car on display was called simply the New Compact Coupe and described as a hybrid, but the Audilike lines, by Klaus Bischoff and Walter de'Silva, can easily be projected to the larger New Midsize Sedan, as VW calls the future Chattanooga car. 
 Designers are constantly speaking of a brand's design language, but Americans have historically not been very good at learning other people's languages. No wonder Mr. Mays at Ford was proud of the voice command system he described in the Focus. 
 ''It will recognize thousands of words,'' he said, ''and multiple languages.'' 
 That is an apt symbol of the wider message of 35.5: Detroit's cars, which have talked to each other so long, repeating tales of the good old days and bragging of achievements on the racetrack, may at last be learning to speak the languages of others on the planet. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CONTINENTAL: Ford Focus will be nearly identical worldwide. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG) (AU1)
TRAVELERS: Clockwise from above, VW's New Compact Coupe concept hints at the shape of a future car to be built in Tennessee
a Lancia wearing a Chrysler grille
Chevy's Aveo RS concept previews a new model to be built in Michigan. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF KOWALSKY/BLOOMBERG
FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 WIDESCREEN: The touch screen of the Audi A8 displays Google Earth maps as well as e-mail. (AU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); NEW CAR MODELS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



471 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 5028 words

HEADLINE: Vigor Quest

BYLINE: By TOM DUNKEL. 
Tom Dunkel has written for The Washington Post Magazine, Sports Illustrated and Smithsonian. He is working on a book about an integrated baseball team in the 1930s.

 BODY:
NEARLY EVERY SUNDAY morning -- Easter and Mother's Day included -- John Bellizzi says goodbye to his wife, Francesca, grabs an equipment bag and slides into the front seat of his black BMW. He drives to a high-school soccer field about 10 miles from his home in the New York City suburb of Rye.
 Bellizzi, who is 51, is a member of the Old Timers Soccer Club, a band of stubborn, aging athletes who refuse to fall under the spell of golf. Technically, these are just pickup games, but they have been happening weekly since the early 1980s. The players go to the trouble of hiring a referee and battle full tilt (think slide tackles and heels-over-head bicycle kicks) for an hour and a half. Many of them were high-school and collegiate stars, decades ago. ''One guy had a hip replacement,'' Bellizzi, a former soccer captain at Queens College, says. ''He was out for a year, then he came back.'' 
 Advil, hot tubs and surgery keep most of the Old Timers going, but Bellizzi has ventured further. Two summers ago he became a patient of Dr. Florence Comite, a Manhattan endocrinologist affiliated with Cenegenics Medical Institute. Cenegenics, a privately held company based in Las Vegas, claims to have 10,000 patients and annual revenue of $50 million, making it the country's foremost purveyor of so-called age-management medicine. 
 Comite's relationship to Bellizzi is like that of an ace mechanic to a classic car. Her job is to keep him finely tuned despite worn parts. ''I consider what I do aggressive prevention, the basis of which is metabolism modulation,'' Comite says. ''Twenty years from now, this will be the standard of care.''
 Bellizzi is a vice president of business development at Thomson Reuters. Every three months a Cenegenics contractor comes to his office in Stamford, Conn., and draws 10 vials of blood. Comite receives a lab report that isolates scores of variables on those samples, among them glucose and cortisol, a stress hormone produced by the adrenal glands. The readings, in part, tell her if any metabolism tweaking is in order.
 Under Comite's guidance -- and at an annual cost of about $10,000, most of it not covered by insurance -- Bellizzi has gobbled vitamins and prescription-strength Omega-3 fatty acids. He follows a low-glycemic diet, lifts weights and jogs, all of which is familiar-enough health-and-fitness fare. Comite asserts, however, that ''lifestyle alone isn't enough'' to counter the corrosive effects of aging. Therefore, twice a week Bellizzi grabs a pinch of abdominal skin and injects himself with human chorionic gondatropin, or H.C.G., a hormone distilled from the urine of pregnant women.
 H.C.G. is commonly used as a fertility drug. Comite uses it for an alternative application that's perfectly legal and, she insists, safe: regular doses of H.C.G. signal the testes to secrete more testosterone, which the body generates in progressively smaller amounts after about age 30.
 Testosterone is a naturally produced anabolic steroid, best known as the male sex hormone. But Comite and a growing minority of physicians regard it as motor oil that keeps bodies running smoothly. For testosterone to trigger a cellular response, receptors must be present to receive its coded messages. Surprisingly, testosterone receptors are highly concentrated inside the heart, indicating its larger biochemical role. Numerous studies, Comite says, show that low testosterone contributes to a loss of lean muscle mass, bone density, energy and libido, thereby making older men more susceptible to cardiovascular disease, diabetes, osteoporosis, sexual dysfunction and, possibly, depression.
 Comite says she believes in the existence of male menopause. She pegs it to when the testicles stop responding to a testosterone stimulant like H.C.G., for all intents and purposes shutting down. That occurs anywhere between the ages of 45 and 75. Women also produce testosterone, though in relatively small amounts. Female hormone production is prone to sharp spikes and dips, moving in concert with the fertility cycle. For males, fluctuations tend to be less extreme. Still, similarities between the sexes far outweigh any differences. Both men and women experience systemic changes associated with aging that ''lead you down the path to disease,'' Comite says. 
 Mainstream medicine does not join her in embracing the idea of male menopause. The position of the National Institute on Aging is that ''there is scant scientific evidence that this condition, also known as andropause or viropause, exists.'' Likewise, micromanaging the body's metabolism strikes most physicians as an overly bold intervention: yet to be proved at best, dangerous at worst. The Endocrine Society, for example, questions the benefits of testosterone therapy except when administered to counteract a specific malady like delayed puberty or AIDS wasting. The society's guidelines ''recommend against . . . offering testosterone to all older men with low testosterone'' barring definitive proof of its efficacy.
 S. Jay Olshansky, a professor of public health at the University of Illinois at Chicago, is an author of ''The Quest for Immortality: Science at the Frontiers of Aging'' and is at work on a sequel titled ''Huckster's Paradise.'' He is wary of most things that smack of antiaging medicine. 
 ''If anyone is arguing that this is the new medical profession or the way things are going to be done 20 years from now, I would say they're drinking the Kool-Aid of the antiaging industry,'' Olshansky says. ''They're making money selling a repackaged version of traditional preventive medicine, and then they add some hormones and supplements. It's just such a racket.''
 Comite's notion of metabolism modulation extends beyond H.C.G. and testosterone. It encompasses health-food-store staples like the fruit extract saw palmetto and vitamin D, as well as heavier artillery that includes melatonin (an antioxidant), dehydroepiandrosterone (the body's most abundant steroid) and even human-growth hormone. When it comes to testosterone, she opts for injections over more user-friendly gels and patches.
 Comite has impeccable credentials. After graduating from Yale School of Medicine and working at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md., she was a part-time faculty member at Yale, a job she has held for the last decade. Much of her recent professional life is devoted to bridging the divide between conventional medicine and age-management medicine. That bridge probably won't be completed anytime soon. Do a Google search of ''Florence Comite'' and the first item that pops up is her biographical entry on the Web site Quackwatch.com.
 John Bellizzi has unwavering trust in her, though. They talk for hours on end about body chemistry, his treatment and lab results. Comite has pored over generations of his family medical history and sent him multiple research studies.
 ''This notion of 'we're getting old; it's bound to happen' doesn't make any sense to me,'' Bellizzi says. ''I don't think I'm so far out on the edge here that I'm gambling with my life. What I do know is I feel better.''
 It may be tempting to dismiss Bellizzi as a soccer fanatic afraid to age gracefully or to accuse Comite of squandering her talent by catering to affluent, youth-clinging patients. Nonetheless, their medical partnership could have broad, perhaps profound, implications. At root, this is a tale of empowerment, of humankind's primordial urge to exert control over the aging process. That raises intriguing questions. What constitutes responsible cutting-edge science as opposed to a reckless pushing of the envelope? Where is the line separating a vanity fix from a genuine quality-of-life improvement? Imagine that a miracle drug is discovered that guarantees vigor far beyond retirement age, but shortens your life by, say, four years. Is it worth the trade-off?
 The human body is a symphonic masterpiece of flesh and blood, but it wears out like any clanking machine on the factory floor. The ruthless tick, tick, tick of time strips gears, nibbles at bushings. On a submicroscopic level, damage is done by free radicals, unstable atoms that have a toxic effect on cell membranes and DNA. In addition, telomeres, the protective tips on chromosomes, fray from the stress of continual regeneration, much as serial photocopies of an image lose their crispness. 
 Some antiaging proponents make seductive promises about prolonging longevity. Comite steers clear of that camp. Her interest lies in extending the length of ''health span,'' as opposed to life span. Does the body have to slide inexorably downhill after 40? She says she is convinced that metabolism modulation can help stave off stroke, heart disease and diabetes; can flatten the trajectory of corporeal decline. Ideally, age-management-medicine patients will keep humming along nicely, then crash like a spent computer. As Comite puts it, ''Can we maintain optimal health until one day when we just don't wake up?''
 Tantalizing though it is, Comite's question is just philosophical conjecture. But the first hint that such a situation might be achievable came in a study that appeared in the July 5, 1990, issue of The New England Journal of Medicine. Dr. Daniel Rudman wanted to test the prevailing notion that older people lose muscle and gain fat because they produce less growth hormone. Twelve men, ages 61 to 81, were given small doses of synthetic human-growth hormone three times a week. After six months they showed a 9 percent increase in lean-muscle mass, a 14 percent decline in fat and a modest improvement in bone density. ''The overall deterioration of the body that comes with growing old is not inevitable,'' Rudman declared. ''We now realize some aspects of it can be prevented or reversed.'' 
 Rudman, who has since died, reportedly came to regret his choice of words and the fact that so many overlooked that this was a small test-group participating in a short-term study; it was not an experiment he intended to be conclusive. Still, a kind of growth-hormone and anabolic-steroid gold rush ensued -- witness the fact that today you can buy hormones from China online and consult how-to books like ''The Secrets of Mail Order Steroid Success.''
 Within two years of Rudman's study, the American Academy of Anti-Aging Medicine was established. It unabashedly presses the case for growth hormones, but there's room in the tent for low-level light therapy, whole-body vibration machines and assorted New Age nostrums. The organization boasts of being ''the first scientific nonprofit medical society to forecast the deliverance of human life spans in excess of 100 years.'' A Chicago-area doctor and amateur bodybuilder named Alan Mintz also took keen interest in Rudman's experiment. Mintz was soon augmenting his gym workouts with testosterone and growth hormone. He and his exercise partner, John Adams, owned a radiology-diagnostics company. They sold the business in 1994, pocketing millions. Rather than retire and work full time on their pecs, they started Cenegenics Medical Institute, a boutique age-management center, and relocated to Las Vegas. 
 The cultural demographics couldn't be better for their company. Baby boomers -- some 79 million strong -- are going gray. Many, like John Bellizzi, refuse to surrender their youth without a fight. By the summer of 2008, he was closing in on 50: pudgy, sluggish and worried he had lost his edge at work as well as on the soccer field.
 Flipping through an airline magazine while on a business trip, Bellizzi stumbled on an ad for Cenegenics Medical Institute. It featured startling photographs of Dr. Jeffry Life, a Cenegenics physician. The ''before'' shot showed Life with a pot belly and noodle arms. The ''after'' picture looked like some grandfather's head had been superimposed on Mr. Universe's body. Apparently no trick photography was involved; that was Life showing off his new age-management-medicine physique.
 Bellizzi pondered the ad for a few months, then called Cenegenics' toll-free number. Soon he was sitting in Comite's office on East 86th Street, exhibiting classic signs of the middle-age fade. Blood tests showed he had an underactive thyroid. He was flirting with obesity. He had high cholesterol and low testosterone. Comite made immediate diet and exercise suggestions and put him on thyroid medication; then six months later she prescribed the H.C.G. booster. She opted for using H.C.G. because it nudges the testicles into making more testosterone. With direct testosterone injections, they would be bypassed entirely and gradually atrophy.
 Bellizzi used to collapse exhausted on his couch after soccer games. Now, he says, he can ''play for another hour.'' He feels mentally sharper and is 15 pounds lighter. It's difficult to say what's benefiting him most. Eating more protein or laying off the Haagen-Dazs ice cream? Running four times a week? Bellizzi says he thinks H.C.G. deserves a great deal of credit too, while acknowledging it is ''fairly controversial.''
 Consensus is elusive in the realm of age-management medicine. There are known side effects for the more controversial treatments. For growth hormone: joint pain, fluid retention, a possible diabetes link; for testosterone: thickening of the blood, rashes, swelling of the breasts. There is a strong presumption that those compounds will supercharge an existing cancer. Some doctors, however, say these effects can be controlled or eliminated by monitoring dosages and screening at-risk patients. 
 But the bigger issue is that the medical literature pertaining to steroids and hormones is characterized by a dearth of long-duration, large-population, placebo-controlled studies. ''The same body of data, different people look at it and have very strong and opposing points of view,'' says Dr. Shalender Bhasin, a professor at Boston University School of Medicine and chairman of the Endocrine Society's testosterone-guideline panel.
 The Food and Drug Administration originally approved human-growth hormone as a treatment for stunted growth in children and then for atrophy in AIDS patients, but later authorized it for what is termed ''adult growth-hormone deficiency.'' There is wiggle room as far as interpreting that syndrome and therefore opportunity for unscrupulous doctors to prescribe the drug for somebody who merely wants to bulk up and look buff.
 Dr. Tom Perls, an associate professor of medicine also at Boston University School of Medicine, has testified before Congress that growth-hormone deficiency occurs only in about 1 adult out of 10,000. By comparison, nearly 10 percent of Cenegenics' patients receive human-growth hormone. Perls says he believes some age-management doctors fudge their diagnoses. ''They certainly could be well meaning,'' he says, ''but I think it's irresponsible to treat people, particularly with potent drugs, just because you yourself think it has some benefits.''
 Critics cite situations in which physicians enthusiastically prescribed Vioxx with disastrous consequences or prescribed hormones for postmenopausal women only to learn about an N.I.H. study released later that linked those hormones to breast cancer. They cite the case of the professional wrestler Chris Benoit, who regularly injected freakishly high amounts of testosterone and who committed suicide after killing his wife and son. Then there's Hanneke Hops, a 56-year-old Californian who died of liver cancer in 2004, six months after becoming a Cenegenics patient. Her family says growth-hormone supplements aggravated latent tumors. Alan Mintz called that ''speculation,'' saying his company would never give hormones to anyone suspected of having cancer.
 Advocates of age management have their favorite rebuttals. If athletes abused insulin, nobody would seriously consider outlawing it for the treatment of diabetes, they say. We don't accept osteoporosis as a necessary condition of growing old. Why not be just as proactive with declining hormones as we are with brittle bones?
 Dr. Marc Blackman is associate chief of staff for research and development at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Washington. Regardless of the quality and quantity of cumulative human research, many holes remain, he says. What constitutes low testosterone for a man at age 40? At 60? At 80? Thus far, there are no universal standards. Blackman, an endocrinologist, poses a cogent question: ''How do you distinguish between a normal age decline and a chemical deficiency?''
 That's ''the art'' of medicine, Florence Comite says. Judgment calls have to be made. She worries more about what gets lost in this discussion; namely, the wide-angle view of her kind of intense preventive medicine. True, her methods are expensive. But she imagines an affordable model designed for the masses, one that would be an antidote for what's ailing America's disease-based health care system. ''This isn't about the future Fountain of Youth,'' she says. ''This is about the big picture.'' 
 COMITE GREW UP in Brooklyn and Queens, a daughter of Holocaust survivors. Family members were so hungry for knowledge that they read not only at the dinner table but also while washing dishes. Her favorite book as a teenager was ''Stranger in a Strange Land,'' Robert Heinlein's science-fiction classic about an earthling boy raised by Martians. Like the book's hero, Comite knew something about alien environments. She graduated from high school at 16, sped through Brooklyn College and entered Yale Medical School at 20. Next came a fellowship in reproductive endocrinology at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, which led to a job at N.I.H. doing research in gynecology and precocious puberty.
 In 1985, Comite returned to Yale as part of the medical faculty. In addition to teaching, she founded Women's Health at Yale, arguably the first clinic in the country to treat women's health issues as a special discipline. Many men on the faculty questioned the need for such a clinic. Comite says she used to ''wake up scared'' at night, career-killer thoughts racing through her head. What if I'm wrong? What if I'm going down a path that doesn't lead anywhere?
 ''It was not a hot topic, and medicine in general was not interested in women's health,'' Dr. Paul Barash, a professor of anesthesiology at Yale, says. '' 'Eclectic' is a very good term to describe her. Basically, she had to mobilize public opinion to start getting women's health on the radar screen.''
 Comite left a tenure-track position at Yale because she became frustrated with what she saw as medicine's red tape and tunnel vision. One galvanizing moment involved a woman named Vivian, who had a badly scarred uterus and who had tried repeated in vitro fertilizations without success. She came to see Comite at Yale, still hoping to have a child, but failed to conceive. At wit's end, Vivian consulted an acupuncturist. She became pregnant after only a few treatments.
 ''I would swear on a stack of Bibles and all my oaths there was no way that woman could conceive,'' Comite says. ''That experience turned me into an open-minded skeptic.''
 This ushered in a restless phase of her career. Comite briefly reconnected with the N.I.H. as a research adviser. She helped establish a women's health clinic in Egypt, served on an Institute of Medicine committee that compiled a report on alternative medicine. Comite went into private practice in January 2005, doing what she does now but not articulating it as age-management medicine per se. That June, Alan Mintz invited her to Las Vegas, and she ultimately joined Cenegenics' medical advisory board. (Two years later, Mintz, while doing an overhead press in the gym, lost control of the weighted bar, which struck him in the back of his head. He died while undergoing a brain biopsy.)
 About 80 percent of Comite's patients are men. It's a good match. She finds male menopause an area ripe for exploration, and men are generally more receptive to the notion of age management than women, who have been bombarded for years with conflicting information about hormone therapy.
 Bob Fitzmaurice, a 48-year-old New Hampshire businessman, spent seven years trampolining around to doctors and psychiatrists, searching for relief from a crippling lethargy. Comite treated him for abnormally low testosterone. Jerome Baron, 83, made an appointment at the behest of his son, who was already a Comite patient. He had fallen several times, once breaking his nose. He takes a shot of testosterone every week and about 45 vitamins and nutrition pills every day. ''I don't trip,'' Baron cheerfully remarks. ''I'm stronger. My legs are stronger.'' And there's an added bonus: ''I started to get urges for sex, which I hadn't had in a few years.''
 Critics scoff at such anecdotal evidence. Comite understands that it comes with the territory. One of the lessons Yale taught her is that change makes most people ''uncomfortable.'' A vignette sticks in her mind. She was a junior faculty member, walking down a corridor one afternoon at the medical school, when a distinguished department head sidled up to her. She says he icily remarked, ''The problem with you, Florence, is that you're an independent thinker.'' That was not meant to be a compliment. She considers it one of the nicest things anybody has ever said to her.
 THE HEADQUARTERS OF Cenegenics Medical Institute sits on the fringe of Las Vegas, where the pavement peters out and turns to desert sand. The facade of the two-story building, with its picket line of alabaster Corinthian columns, evokes a Greek temple. This could be an embassy in some sun-drenched principality: the People's Republic of Rejuvenation.
 Dr. Jeffry Life, dressed in a dark suit and with a Bluetooth headset clinging to one ear, was seated at a desk inside a cramped, temporary office. He was in the process of moving off campus. His Cenegenics ads succeeded beyond his wildest expectations, becoming the focal point of a $5 million a year media blitz. Life had decided to lighten his Cenegenics load in favor of pursuing spinoff opportunities: speaking engagements, a book deal, a Web site and a wellness center in Las Vegas under the Cenegenics banner. 
 ''I want to get my message out to a wider audience,'' he said, his voice simultaneously authoritative and avuncular. ''I want to capitalize on this image I've created.''
 Life's message is that if a fat, 59-year-old, divorced family physician from eastern Pennsylvania can reinvent himself through a combination of lifestyle alterations and modern pharmacology, so can you. (By the way, that makeover didn't include his name. He was born Jeffry Life.) In June 2003, Life signed up as a patient with Cenegenics and a year later joined the corporate team, which now includes 40 staff physicians in Las Vegas and in branches in eight other cities, with five more scheduled to open soon.
 Every year, Life gets a new set of beefcake photos taken. Now 71, he said he put on five pounds of muscle this past year by scheduling extra tae kwon do practices and cranking it up a notch in the weight room. He can bench-press 235 pounds and can do 10 pull-ups, ''full extension.''
 His age-management program could fill a spreadsheet. Life began reciting from memory: 1,000 milligrams of calcium daily, coenzyme Q10 pills twice a day, 5,000 units of vitamin D, 4 grams of fish oil, 10 milligrams of melatonin at bedtime, a testosterone injection once a week, human-growth hormone once a day. ''That reminds me,'' he said, reaching into his desk drawer. ''I've got to give myself a shot.''
 He pulled out a syringe, loaded up on human-growth hormone, raised a pants leg and stuck the needle into his left thigh.
 Life is good for Dr. Life. He relocated, remarried and rediscovered what it feels like to be 30. ''I sometimes think what would have happened if I'd started this at 45 like a lot of my patients,'' he mused.
 Doctors and their family members account for about a quarter of Cenegenics' patients, according to John Adams, the company president. Roughly 75 percent of them are men, and the recession doesn't appear to be discouraging newcomers. Cenegenics' revenue rose 35 percent in both 2007 and 2008, and growth was 10 percent in 2009, Adams said. There's a five-month waiting list for doctors wanting to enroll in one of Cenegenics' training seminars, but professional suspicion lingers. A neonatologist in Florida recently became a Cenegenics patient, but didn't tell any of his physician friends. ''They would think I'm crazy or vain or stupid,'' he says.
 Dr. Pinchas Cohen, chief of endocrinology at Mattel Children's Hospital U.C.L.A. and a member of the Growth Hormone Society's executive board, concedes that Jeffry Life ''looks pretty good'' but cautions that he is flirting with disaster because of the possible deleterious effects of human-growth hormone and testosterone: ''I'm quite sure that he will end up a tragic case. Sooner or later, his cancer or diabetes will be diagnosed.'' 
 Every field of medicine is in constant flux. Old maxims evolve into newer truths; yesterday's hypothesis becomes tomorrow's scientific breakthrough or dead-end fizzle. But that process of intellectual friction can generate a lot of emotional heat.
 ''There is a fascinating but very clear philosophical divide between the antiaging folks and mainstream medicine,'' says Dr. Abraham Morgentaler, associate clinical professor of urology at Harvard Medical School. ''What's remarkable to me is how everybody has an opinion that often isn't based on much.''
 Morgentaler has no ties to Cenegenics Medical Institute. The feuding over testosterone therapy in particular piqued his curiosity. When he was in medical school, the accepted truth was that the higher a man's testosterone level, the greater his risk of contracting prostate cancer. Morgentaler decided to investigate that premise, unearthing as many related research papers as he could, dating back more than half a century. The trail led him to a study done in 1941 that helped Dr. Charles Huggins win a Nobel Prize. Huggins's focus was advanced prostate cancer. He discovered testosterone can feed existing tumors, a revelation that has stood the test of time. But other studies extrapolated on Huggins's work, Morgentaler says, sparking a chain reaction of soft science that went a step further and implied that testosterone causes prostate cancer. As Morgentaler delved deeper, he said he was ''dumbfounded'' at all the positive evidence of testosterone's general health benefits that had been ignored. His research odyssey turned into a book, ''Testosterone for Life.'' 
 ''The stuff Dr. Comite is talking about is real,'' says Morgentaler, referring to the biological causes of middle-age malaise. He frequently prescribes testosterone and offers this prediction: within five years testosterone will be as popular a yardstick of good health as cholesterol. ''There are all these people walking around the United States who are getting older,'' he said. ''They know they don't feel right. They've lost pep. Their brain doesn't work as well. Mainstream medicine has no answers for them.''
 ON A FEBRUARY afternoon seven and a half months into his Cenegenics journey, John Bellizzi sat on a stationary bicycle in Comite's Manhattan office, pedaling as if he were on a Tour de France hill climb. He was in the final stages of a VO2 aerobic fitness test. A conelike rubber mask covered his nose and mouth, sucking up information from his labored breathing. Lance Armstrong pedals a test bike like this for an hour at high resistance. Bellizzi cranked for 12 minutes. ''I couldn't have done a lot more,'' he said upon dismounting.
 Steven Villagomez, an exercise physiologist, stood close by. ''I'll go over this with Dr. Comite,'' he said, scanning a computer printout. ''She'll be thrilled to see these numbers.''
 Since his intake exam in June 2008, Bellizzi had seen his weight drop to 165 pounds from 181; body fat to 15 percent from 27 percent. His cholesterol level declined to 162 from 231 and continues to fall. 
 ''Your heart is stronger, pumping more effectively,'' Comite pronounced after digesting his VO2 results. This summer Bellizzi celebrated his first anniversary of treatment. He's feeling energetic enough that Comite has twice cut his H.C.G. dosage. His body is generating double the amount of testosterone that it did a year ago.
 Is this the future of health care? Will metabolism modulating soon gain widespread acceptance? The National Institutes of Health announced in November that they are embarking on a six-year, $45 million study of the mental and physical benefits of testosterone therapy. Eight hundred elderly men will undergo tests at 12 facilities nationwide.
 Preliminary results of the Testosterone Trial, as it is called, won't be available until at least 2015. In the meantime, Bellizzi's one-man experiment rolls on. He and his wife weighed the pros and cons over a kitchen-table brunch of fresh fruit and organic yogurt following a Sunday soccer game.
 ''I wish he wouldn't do it,'' Francesca said. She's comfortable with everything but the H.C.G. injections. Have they done enough testing? Is this worth the expense and the uncertainty?
 ''I'd be a little concerned about taking testosterone,'' John admitted. ''I'd have to re-evaluate. But I'd be very leery about H.G.H. and doing more hormone modulation than I am now.''
 The majority of Comite's patients never need human-growth hormone, although a guy who says he intends to kick soccer balls until ''the pain exceeds the pleasure'' may want to keep that option open. As for testosterone, H.C.G. eventually loses its effectiveness as the testicles run dry. The only option is to turn to synthetic testosterone. 
 Comite has no doubt, when that time comes, that Bellizzi will make the decision to start injecting testosterone. ''He'll make it because he'll realize he's not feeling as good as he was before,'' she says.
 Maybe he will reach for the needle. Maybe he won't. Right now, all Bellizzi knows is that he'll be playing soccer next Sunday. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 31, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 17 about the use of hormones to forestall the aging process misspelled the third word in the name of one of them. It is human chorionic gonadotropin, not gondatropin.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM41)
LIFE PRESERVERS: Bellizzi's regimen includes vitamins and a hormone distilled from the urine of pregnant women. (MM43)
 BODY WORK: Bellizzi working out at home. His anti-aging care costs about $10,000 a year in medical visits and supplements. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HENRY LEUTWYLER) (MM44) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCCER (90%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (87%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (83%); SPORTS (77%); GOLF (77%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); STEROIDS (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (72%); WEIGHTLIFTING (71%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (70%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (68%); ENDOCRINOLOGY (65%); EXECUTIVES (64%); OILS & FATS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



472 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; SAN JOSE JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: For Latino Group, Health and Savings Grow In Backyard Gardens

BYLINE: By PATRICIA LEIGH BROWN

DATELINE: SAN JOSE 

 BODY:
At dawn, Maria Lupercio Alarcon wakens to the heady scent of onions and cilantro from her family's first garden, outside her bedroom window.
 The two-month-old vegetable garden, from which Mrs. Alarcon picks extravagant bursts of broccoli for breakfast with scrambled eggs, is both comforting and unfamiliar. It is one of 30 backyard vegetable gardens recently planted by a nonprofit group here called La Mesa Verde, or The Green Table, which makes house calls to help residents of the city's low-income, predominantly Latino neighborhoods grow their own organic produce.
 ''People don't eat vegetables unless they are close by, to be honest with you,'' Mrs. Alarcon, a mother of three who grew up in Guadalajara, Mexico, said of the human tendency to eat whatever is at hand, especially if it is cheap. ''If you have vegetables,'' she said, pointing to luxuriant tangles of peas and other delights, ''then you can come get them. To see them growing is a blessing.'' 
 The fledgling effort to bring backyard vegetable beds to San Jose neighborhoods like the Washington-Guadalupe and Gardner districts -- historic portals for immigrants -- is part of a national movement, from West Oakland to Little Rock, Ark., to make healthy food readily accessible to marginalized urban neighborhoods. 
 ''Nobody was going into the homes,'' said Raul Lozano, 55, the son of farm workers, whose passion for gardening inspired him to form La Mesa Verde after 15 years as executive director of a Latino theater company. ''You can get beer in the neighborhood. But not vegetables.''
 In San Jose, with roughly 300 sunny days a year, the new gardeners were recruited from food pantry rolls and word of mouth. 
 Once known as ''Goosetown,'' after Italian immigrants who raised geese there, the Gardner neighborhood is less than two miles from downtown but is fragmented by highways. In the 1980s, it acquired the nickname Barrio Horseshoe, a reference to a contested sliver of territory between street gangs. 
 In recent years, with help from a city neighborhood revitalization initiative, it has become a place of ''prideful homes,'' as Mr. Lozano put it, where the familiar ting-a-lings of vendors selling ice cream, tamales and pork rinds with lemon and chili punctuate the afternoons. These are the working poor -- maids, landscapers, restaurant workers, teacher's aides -- ''people trying to make ends meet with two or three jobs and who don't have time to commit to a community garden,'' said Poncho Guevara, the executive director of Sacred Heart Community Service, which started Mr. Lozano's program with over 100 volunteers. 
 ''For years,'' he added, ''residents raised concerns that they had no place to obtain fresh produce. This puts the solution in their hands.'' 
 The program, including bilingual gardening classes and the installation of two raised beds per yard with soil, seedlings and a drip-irrigation system, costs $210 a family, financed by Sacred Heart through local foundations, a federal community services block grant and individual contributions. Raised beds use 40 percent less water and require less weeding, Mr. Lozano said. Volunteer ''master gardeners'' call twice a month, with the idea that residents themselves will eventually mentor new families, ''keeping the knowledge base in the community,'' Mr. Lozano said. 
 For Arturo Vargas, a carpenter and roofer, and his wife, Rosa, backyard produce is more than a culinary nicety. The couple, who have four children, share their two-bedroom house with three families -- 14 people in all. Before the garden, Mr. Vargas estimated that the family spent $4 a week on cilantro alone. 
 ''Last month we saved money on lettuce, next month, snap peas,'' Mr. Vargas said, his exorbitant cascades of peas flourishing with the help of goat manure from his uncle's ranch. 
 Mrs. Alarcon said her garden had saved her family about $90 a month in grocery bills. 
 Mr. Lozano had been germinating the idea for ''a full-service holistic experience,'' as he put it, since 1994, when he first moved to a house in the Gardner neighborhood with a big backyard. He decided to enroll in a 16-week master gardener program offered by the University of California extension school. Although he worked at a social service agency and then for the theater company, ''I always had a connection to working in the ground,'' he said.
 As a child in Reedley, in the Central Valley, he worked with his extended family in the fields, laying papers beneath grape vines in the hot sun to catch raisins as they fell. In fourth grade, his family moved to Mountain View, where his father, Frank, who died six years ago, got a job as a construction laborer laying sewer pipes and overpasses of what would become known as Silicon Valley.
 There, during summers, Mr. Lozano picked onions and string beans to earn money for school clothes, his boots mended with copper wire. Until 1969, when the family was finally able to buy a home, he lived without hot water or cooking gas. ''When you're growing up,'' he said, ''you don't realize how poor you are.'' 
 Dayana Salazar, a professor of urban and regional planning at San Jose State University, said the approach was ''common sense'' for the Latino community. ''They understand the connection between food and the land,'' Ms. Salazar said. ''This is also what happens in the rest of the world: you have a piece of land, you use it to the maximum. You don't use it for display.'' 
 The program now extends beyond the neighborhood and hopes to reach 100 yards in all by spring. Gardeners like Nelly Vilcherrez, who is from Peru, have been adding their own touches -- like huacatay, a native herb she uses to make Peruvian salsa.
 Mrs. Vilcherrez's 4-year-old son Fernando has grown partial to organic broccoli with ketchup, while her older son, Jorsson, 12, enjoys the picking. 
 The garden, her first, installed beside the shade porch her husband, Bernardo, built, relaxes her, she said, making her less worried about the children's whereabouts in a rough neighborhood. ''It brings a lot of health for families,'' she said. ''It brings the family closer.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FROM THE GROUND UP: Maria Lupercio Alarcon, top, in her garden
Fernando Vega, 4, who loves broccoli
 and Raul Lozano, left, who directs master gardeners like Mike Kent. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DARCY PADILLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (92%); GARDENING (91%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); POOR POPULATION (78%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); SLUM DWELLINGS (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); RESTAURANTS (72%); NUTRITION (72%); PARAEDUCATORS (70%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (70%); CITIES (70%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); FOOD CHARITIES (65%); THEATER & DRAMA (64%); THEATER (64%); GANGS (60%); FARM LABOR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (92%); LITTLE ROCK, AR, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



473 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; FOOD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Recipe Redux: Heavenly Hots, 1987

BYLINE: By AMANDA HESSER

 BODY:
Sometimes the name of a dish is irresistible. Ratatouille. Financiers. Mooncakes. Oysters Rockefeller. Fallen souffle. Anything confited. And my recent favorite, pudding chomeur, which translates to ''unemployed-person pudding.'' (Biscuit dough baked in maple syrup and cream, it's a delight that Canadians have been keeping to themselves.)
 Six years ago, when I began work on a cookbook of New York Times recipes, several readers wrote in about heavenly hots. There was no question: I had to try a recipe with that name.
 Although heavenly hots sound like a late-night cable offering, they're nothing more salacious than pancakes. Once you make them, you'll understand the name. They are so feathery, creamy, tangy -- so heavenly -- that you may find yourself unable to let them cool off before devouring them. 
 Heavenly hots clarify what's wrong with other pancakes, namely that most of them are god-awful: doughy, heavy thuds in our bellies. You always think they're a great idea until about 10 minutes after you eat them. 
 What makes the hots so heavenly is that they ignore all the classic ratios of flour to sugar to eggs (sorry, Michael Ruhlman!). They're made with low-gluten cake flour and just enough of it to lash the batter of sour cream, sugar and salt into fragile cakes. 
 The only problem with heavenly hots is that your first batch is likely to be a wash. The batter is very loose, and it produces pancakes -- some might call them blini -- that are about as sturdy as wet tissue paper. You need to take deep breaths when it's time for flipping, and you also need to let the hots know who's boss. Timid jabs with a spatula will not end well. (See tips for flipping in the recipe headnote.)
 Heavenly hots were popularized at the Bridge Creek Restaurant in Berkeley, Calif., but the original recipe came from Bob Burnham, a chef who once worked for John Hudspeth, later the owner of Bridge Creek. Burnham would serve a sugarless version with caviar. At Bridge Creek, they were breakfast, served in stacks and doused with maple syrup -- ''real maple syrup,'' Hudspeth said, ''which was unusual in Berkeley at the time.'' It is the kind of recipe that makes an impression. Hudspeth named his company Heavenly Hots Inc. And Marion Cunningham, the author of ''The Fannie Farmer Cookbook'' and a friend of Hudspeth's, included the hots in ''The Breakfast Book.'' I've never seen them in other restaurants, but they certainly deserve to live on. And they may, in a slightly different form, at Gottino, an enoteca in Manhattan. The heavenly hots were such a hit with Jody Williams, the chef and owner, that she took to calling them ''heavenly hotties.'' 
 Sometimes when I give chefs recipes for this column, they use modern techniques and concepts to pick them apart or polish them up. But with heavenly hots there wasn't much to do but eat them and then use the ideas in the pancake recipe to improve another recipe. 
 Williams cooks Italian food, and one of the dishes that has long vexed her is necci, or chestnut crepes, which tend to be bone dry. She decided to combine the chestnut flavor of necci with the light structure of the hotties ''and then serve them with chestnut honey and pecorino,'' making something ''not quite a dessert and not quite a savory,'' she said. Her ''heavenly necci'' worked so well that she created two variations, one with half sour cream and half ricotta, and one that's a larger pancake baked in the oven. This last variation she called ''oven hots,'' which reminded me of another oven-baked pancake, also with an irresistible name: the Dutch Baby. It's a thin German pancake that curls up like a wave on the edges and is sprinkled with lemon juice and sugar. But that's another story.
 Recipe: 1987: Heavenly Hots
 This recipe appeared in The Times in an article by Joanna Pruess. The recipe came from Bridge Creek Restaurant in Berkeley, Calif. A few tips: Don't cook the pancakes all the way through. You want the center to be a pocket of cream. The pancakes are so fragile that it may take a few tries to flip them. I used the thinnest, most flexible spatula I own, wedged it halfway under the pancake, letting the other half hang, then turned my wrist and gently laid it down on the other side. I recommend this over more aggressive flipping, which will tear the pancakes.
 4large eggs 
 1/2teaspoon salt 
 1/2teaspoon baking soda 
 4tablespoons cake flour 
 2cups sour cream 
 3tablespoons sugar 
 Solid vegetable shortening for greasing griddle or skillet.
 1.Whisk together all the ingredients except the vegetable shortening in a large bowl; beat until smooth. This can also be done in a blender. Chill the batter overnight. (The batter will keep, refrigerated, for up to one week.)
 2.The next day, heat the griddle or skillet over medium-high heat. Beat the batter to re-emulsify it. Lightly coat the griddle or skillet with shortening. Drop small spoonfuls -- I used * tablespoon -- of batter onto the griddle, making sure that when they spread out they measure less than 3 inches in diameter. When a few bubbles appear on top of the pancakes and the bottoms are browned, turn and cook the second side briefly. (You don't want to cook the pancakes all the way through because you want the center to remain creamy.) Serve with syrup or honey on the side. Makes 50 to 60 small pancakes.
 Recipe: 2009: Heavenly Necci
 By Jody Williams, chef and owner at Gottino in Manhattan.
 1/2teaspoon salt
 1/2teaspoon baking soda
 1/4teaspoon nutmeg
 3tablespoons superfine sugar
 2tablespoons cake flour
 1tablespoon chestnut flour
 1tablespoon whole-wheat flour
 4large organic eggs, lightly beaten
 1 1/2cups sour cream
 Vegetable shortening for greasing griddle
 Chestnut honey, 
 for serving
 Pecorino Toscano or sheep's-milk ricotta, for serving.
 1.In a medium bowl, sift together the salt, baking soda, nutmeg, sugar and flours. Make a well in the center of the dry ingredients, then add the eggs and sour cream, and beat until smooth. The mixture will be very loose. Chill the batter for at least 30 minutes.
 2.Heat a griddle over medium-high heat. Lightly grease the griddle with shortening. Drop tablespoons of chilled batter onto the hot griddle (the pancakes should spread about 3 inches). When bubbles appear on the surface of the pancakes and the bottoms are lightly browned, flip them gently and brown the other side, about 2 minutes total.
 3.Serve warm with chestnut honey and a wedge of young pecorino Toscano or a spoonful of ricotta. Makes 40 pancakes.
 Variations
 Ricotta Hots: 1 cup sour cream and 1 cup drained ricotta make really rich cakes that are easier to handle and still fluffy. (To drain ricotta, spoon it into a strainer lined with cheesecloth; set the strainer over a bowl and place it in the refrigerator overnight.)
 Oven Hots: Heat the oven to 500 degrees. Rub a 6-inch skillet with shortening, then heat in the oven until smoking. Pour a thin layer of batter into the skillet and place in the oven until set, about 5 minutes. The cake should bubble and brown around the edges but remain soft and creamy in the middle. Serve warm with powdered sugar, chestnut honey and ricotta or pecorino.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: SOURCE: Heavenly hots were included in Marion Cunningham's ''Breakfast Book,'' which also featured beloved recipes for yeast-raised waffles and coffeecake.
 ACCOMPANIMENT: Don't weigh down the featherweight hots with a leaden syrup. How about a light maple syrup or acacia honey served on the side or, better yet, a sprinkling of lemon-zest sugar or cinnamon sugar? ELEVATOR PITCH: Heavenly hots are Russian blini meet pudding -- the ideal Sunday breakfast. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TOM SCHIERLITZ) (FOOD STYLIST: BRIAN PRESTON-CAMPBELL) (MM22-23) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (87%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



474 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2288 words

HEADLINE: Buying Landmarks? Easy. Keeping Them? Maybe Not.

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
IT seemed a great idea at the time. In June 2007, Jerry I. Speyer and his son Rob bought six buildings in Chicago, making them one of the largest commercial landlords in the city.
 The Speyers, who focus on prominent towers like Rockefeller Center and the Chrysler Building in Manhattan that are packed with blue-chip tenants, were elated. They had captured several buildings at the heart of Chicago's business district, including the sprawling Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the stately Civic Opera House.
 But within weeks, nearly everything went wrong. The Speyers, who are co-chief executives of Tishman Speyer Properties, had counted on selling three of the buildings to pay down $1.4 billion in loans used to finance the deal. But they could unload only one. Soon, the commercial vacancy rate in Chicago climbed to 15 percent, and property values plummeted.
 Now the Speyers are in tough negotiations with a representative of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to restructure the loans on the Chicago properties. If those talks fail, the ownership group led by Tishman Speyer could face foreclosure. The Fed inherited the debt in 2008 when JPMorgan Chase bought the original lender, Bear Stearns, and the government took on many of its troubled assets. 
 As it happens, Jerry Speyer was a director of the New York Fed from 2001 through 2007. The Federal Reserve, meanwhile, has hired the Blackstone Group -- the very people who sold the assets to the Speyers in 2007 for a hefty profit -- to handle the negotiations on its behalf.
 ''We clearly bought the real estate at the top of the market,'' Rob Speyer, 40, said in an interview at the company's Rockefeller Center offices. ''In retrospect, we overpaid.''
 Much as they charged from deal to deal a few years ago, the Speyers are now shuttling from one troubled asset to the next. This month, a joint venture of Tishman Speyer and the investment firm BlackRock defaulted on a $3 billion mortgage for Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village in Manhattan. The partners' purchase of these huge apartment complexes in 2006 -- for $5.4 billion -- is now regarded as a high-water mark for an overheated, speculative market.
 Tishman Speyer also has its hands full with two other sour deals: the $22.2 million acquisition of Archstone Smith, a company that owned 70,000 apartments, and the $2.8 billion purchase of CarrAmerica, which owned 26 office buildings in Washington, a city where vacancy rates have hit a record level. 
 ''Anybody who bought property in the last six years has their equity pretty well washed out,'' said Ray Torto, chief economist at CB Richard Ellis, a real estate firm. ''People are looking back on that period as the peak of the madness, the bubble. The expectation was that there was always someone who would pay a higher price after you.''
 Instead of rents and values rising unchecked, the value of commercial office buildings in the United States has dropped 43 percent, on average, since November 2007, according to economists' estimates. If unemployment continues to rise, an ugly situation could turn nightmarish. 
 Caught in the same riptide as many of their competitors, the Speyers now spend much of their time locked in rooms with bankers. Lenders are deciding whether to restructure the loans by extending the term and offering lower interest (in return for more capital from the Speyers and their partners), or to simply foreclose and hope the assets will be worth more in coming years. 
 THE travails of the Speyers are not that different from those of other investors who poured ever-larger sums into real estate during that delirious period when every day seemed to bring another gigantic deal at a record-breaking price. But the Speyers' problems are unlikely to break the firm or mimic those of Harry Macklowe, whose debt-fueled, $7 billion acquisition of seven Manhattan office buildings ultimately sank much of his real estate empire. 
 The biggest risk the Speyers now face is to their reputation, not their bank accounts.
 Tishman Speyer manages a $33.5 billion portfolio of 72 million square feet of commercial space -- the rough equivalent of all the office space in Houston and Los Angeles combined -- on four continents. (Those numbers do not include residential properties like the Stuyvesant Town and Archstone apartments.) Most of the property is purchased with other people's money, be it the Crown family in Chicago, the government of Singapore, the Church of England or Calpers, the giant California pension fund.
 Investors typically put their money into an investment fund established by the Speyers and expect, say, a 20 percent annual return. The fund, in turn, buys a series of properties or projects, with or without partners. Each deal involves a single-purpose entity or corporation to invest the equity and take on debt. This means that if the deal goes bad, the lenders can take back the property, but they cannot seize other assets owned by the fund or demand that Tishman Speyer make up for any losses.
 Tishman Speyer, which has no corporate debt, earns fees for developing and operating the buildings but usually puts little of its own money into a deal.
 In the $5.4 billion Stuyvesant Town deal, for instance, BlackRock and Tishman Speyer invested only $112 million each of their own money, which they have written off. Jerry and Rob Speyer personally contributed $56 million of Tishman's share. Real estate and bank executives say Tishman Speyer took $18 million a year in fees; company executives say they began waiving the fees in fall 2008. 
 So the question for companies like Tishman Speyer and others that helped orchestrate huge deals during the real estate boom isn't whether they'll go broke: it's whether investors and banks will so easily and unblinkingly put billions of dollars in their hands again after this carnage. 
 ''There's a lot of big-name managers out there who have done a lot of damage to their reputations in the downturn,'' says Michael Kirby, director of research at Green Street Advisors. 
 Calpers, the nation's largest pension fund, has already cut ties with its longtime advisory firm, MacFarlane Partners, and is likely to shed BlackRock as well, in part because its $500 million investment in the Stuyvesant Town deal is now worthless. 
 Clark McKinley, a spokesman for Calpers, acknowledged that the pension fund had written off its investment at Stuyvesant Town and lost billions of dollars on property. ''We took some very tough medicine in real estate. It's been a hugely painful lesson,'' said Mr. McKinley, adding that Calpers was ''also evaluating manager relationships and taking appropriate action, including ending some partnerships.''
 The Speyers argue that a few bad deals have to be put within a larger context for a company that has made money for its investors during good times and bad. Tishman Speyer sold $12 billion worth of buildings for enormous profit during a 12-month period in 2006 and 2007. 
 In Manhattan, that list includes the former headquarters of The New York Times Company, a building that Tishman Speyer sold for $525 million in 2007, three times what it had paid 30 months earlier, and the landmark Lipstick Building, on Third Avenue at 53rd Street, which sold for $648 million, $413 million more than it paid in 2004.
 Today, Tishman Speyer is building 17 residential projects in Brazil and two developments in China. And it is sitting on $2 billion in cash for new deals.
 ''After writing off the equity in a handful of distressed deals, our annual returns on both a 10-year and a 30-year basis are over 20 percent, on average,'' Rob Speyer said.
 THE negotiations between Tishman Speyer and the New York Fed's representative over the debt in the Chicago deal illuminate the often tangled relationships among moguls, lenders and government regulators. Jerry Speyer was a director of the New York Fed for seven years and chairman in 2007, when his term expired. His good friend Richard S. Fuld Jr., then chairman of Lehman Brothers, was also a director in 2007, and Lehman was Tishman Speyer's partner in the Archstone deal.
 As chairman, Mr. Speyer met often with the president of the New York Fed, Timothy F. Geithner, who is now the Treasury secretary. After Mr. Speyer, who is 69, stepped down, the two men continued meeting in 2008 as Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers collapsed, including at a lunch at the Four Seasons and a dinner at Gracie Mansion.
 ''I had no conversations with him about Chicago or any Tishman-related deals,'' Mr. Speyer said of the meetings.
 Mr. Speyer is also well acquainted with two current directors, Lee C. Bollinger, the president of Columbia University, and Kathryn S. Wylde, president of the Partnership for New York City, a research and lobbying group that represents some large banks and companies. 
 Mr. Speyer, chairman emeritus of Columbia, was instrumental in bringing Mr. Bollinger to New York from the University of Michigan, and Ms. Wylde is a protege from his days as chairman of the Partnership. Another director, James S. Tisch, the president of the Loews Corporation, is, like Mr. Speyer, a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.
 Though he has ties to directors of the New York Fed, Mr. Speyer notes that his company is not dealing directly with it to renegotiate loans on the Chicago properties. Instead, Tishman Speyer is in talks with the Fed's representative, Blackstone -- and the two companies have been at the negotiating table before. Tishman Speyer bought the Chicago buildings from Blackstone. And a few months earlier, a partnership led by Tishman Speyer bought the 26 CarrAmerica buildings in Washington from Blackstone, too. 
 In the end, the Fed will decide how to settle with Tishman Speyer, but Jack Gutt, a New York Fed spokesman, said that the directors ''don't vote on this matter.''
 Tishman Speyer itself put up $200 million from one of its investment funds for the Carr buildings. As in Chicago, the combination of a recession, layoffs and a credit freeze sharply drove down the value of the heavily leveraged buildings.
 In August, Tishman Speyer suspended interest payments on $570 million in secondary loans related to the Carr buildings and began talks on restructuring $1.6 billion in senior debt; the negotiations continue.
 When the Speyers and Lehman Brothers decided to buy Archstone Smith, the publicly traded operator of multifamily housing, and to take it private, Tishman Speyer invested $250 million for 5 percent of the deal. The bulk of the debt and equity came from Lehman Brothers, Bank of America and Barclays.
 The problem with the strategy was that rents as well as sale prices retreated quickly as the recession deepened, pushing down property values. And there were few buyers for the thousands of apartments the company tried to sell to cut its debt.
 A year ago, Tishman Speyer's partners poured $485 million more into Archstone to prop up the company. The Speyers decided not to participate, effectively writing off their investment. As a result, their stake in the deal was reduced significantly.
 In California, Tishman Speyer and its joint venture partner Walton Street Capital are trying to fend off lenders on the Playa Vista property in western Los Angeles. The partners are completing an office complex on one parcel but defaulted on a 56-acre portion of the property. 
 NONE of its troubled deals, however, have generated as many headlines as Stuyvesant Town and Peter Cooper Village, the sprawling housing complexes that have been a middle-class haven in Manhattan for six decades. The sale set off a hue and cry among tenant advocates who complained that speculators were gobbling up a chunk of the rent-regulated housing.
 The rent roll at Stuyvesant Town did not come anywhere close to covering the debt service. The Speyers and BlackRock were betting that income would swell as they renovated apartments, raised rents and replaced rent-regulated residents with tenants willing to pay higher, market rents.
 But the conversion process did not move as quickly as they anticipated. And market rents have dropped over the last two years as new luxury apartments have come on line and the recession has set in. On Jan. 8, Tishman Speyer and its partner defaulted on a $3 billion mortgage after exhausting $890 million in reserve funds for interest and renovations. There is $1.4 billion more in secondary loans and $1.9 billion in equity, but the latest appraisal puts the value of the complexes at about $1.9 billion, about a third of the purchase price.
 In another blow, the owners may owe tenants as much as $200 million in back rent after New York's highest court ruled last fall that the owners had improperly deregulated and raised rents on 4,400 apartments. The owners are now negotiating over the size of the rent rebate. 
 Tishman Speyer says it is in discussions with its senior lenders to restructure the debt. It will probably take many months to untangle the finances, but given the extent of the losses and the political interest in the two complexes, some bankers and real estate executives say it is hard to imagine how the Speyers could remain in control.
 Five lenders that together hold about $300 million in senior mezzanine loans notified Tishman Speyer and BlackRock on Jan. 11 that they intended to pursue their ''rights and remedies,'' including a possible foreclosure sale. The lenders include Concord Capital and Wachovia.
 Despite the recent problems, the Speyers don't act downtrodden.
 ''We've done a lot of deals,'' says Jerry Speyer. ''We've had some fantastic results. We've also had some bad results. I'd argue that there's nobody that does what we do that has a better record.'' 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 24, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about Tishman Speyer Properties misidentified the adviser hired by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to negotiate a loan restructuring with Tishman Speyer over office buildings in Chicago. It is BlackRock, not the Blackstone Group. The article also misstated the size of a deal in which Tishman Speyer acquired Archstone Smith. It was $22.2 billion, not million.
 And a chart with the article referred incorrectly to the career of a New York Fed director, Kathryn S. Wylde. Although she is president and chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, she was not promoted to that post by Jerry I. Speyer, the chairman of Tishman Speyer and a former chairman of the Partnership. (Go to Article)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: At various properties, Rob, left, and Jerry Speyer are dealing with the fallout of a deflated market. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1) GRAPHIC: Ties to the Fed: Jerry Speyer, the chairman of Tishman Speyer Properties, has connections or something in common with four of the current nine board members of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Mr. Speyer was a New York Fed director from 2001 through 2007. Tishman Speyer is trying to renegotiate loans with the New York Fed on properties in Chicago that it bought from the Blackstone Group. The Fed acquired the loans when it took over part of the portfolio of Bear Stearns. (BU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (70%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); JOINT VENTURES (61%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (83%); BLACKROCK INC (83%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); CBRE GROUP INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); BLACKSTONE GROUP LP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%)

TICKER: BLK (NYSE) (83%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); CBG (NYSE) (56%); BX (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (83%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (83%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS531312 NONRESIDENTIAL PROPERTY MANAGERS (56%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



475 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1419 words

HEADLINE: No Longer Their Golden Ticket

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
THE first-year corporate lawyers of ''The Deep End,'' a series that has its premiere on ABC this week, inhabit an alternative legal universe, where advancement on the partner track seems measured by their perfect grooming and ability to model designer suits and trade flirtatious banter. 
 In the sleek offices of the fictional firm Sterling Huddle Oppenheim & Craft, high above the Los Angeles smog canopy, life is a colorful, quip-filled adventure. ''This is your lucky chance, your break in the clouds, your four-leaf clover,'' a senior lawyer informs Dylan, a fresh Columbia Law School graduate, during his interview.
 Associates may grumble that the firm is a pit of back-stabbing, a machine that grinds young lawyers down. But they still find time for laughs over beers, games of basketball on a rooftop court and, of course, sex. 
 Adventure? Laughter? Among law associates? This must be a period drama. 
 In fact, ''The Deep End'' was conceived in 2007, that halcyon era of $160,000 starting salaries and full employment even for law grads who had scored in the 150s on their LSAT's. 
 Those days are over. As the profession lurches through its worst slump in decades, with jobs and bonuses cut and internal pressures to perform rising, associates do not just feel as if they are diving into the deep end, but rather, drowning. 
 Lawyers who entered the field as recently as a few years ago could reasonably expect a life of comfort, security and social esteem. Many are now faced with a different landscape. Firms shed more than 4,600 lawyers last year, according to a blog that tracks the legal industry, Law Shucks. Bonuses for those who survive are shriveling, and an increasing number of firms now compensate associates based on grades for performance -- shades of law school -- rather than automatically advancing them on the salary scale. 
 For those just starting out, it's easy to think that the rules have changed six minutes into the first period. 
 ''I thought, 'Great, I can afford to buy a house at 23,' '' said Jacqueline Muna Musiitwa, recalling her first year as an associate in 2006 at Pillsbury in San Francisco. ''If I start this way at 23, goodness knows what it will be like when I'm 40.'' 
 She accepted the notoriously grueling workload for the prospect of Caribbean vacations, a convertible and a big loft apartment. But young lawyers now entering the field can feel no such assurance, said Ms. Musiitwa, 27, who left Pillsbury after a year to start a boutique firm. If she were an associate now, she would ''have to work a million times harder,'' she said, ''just to make sure that next time there's a cut, I'm not on that list.'' 
 One 2008 graduate of a top-10 law school, who worked at a large Chicago firm for a year, said she spent days trying to look busy as business dried up while not billing a single hour, before being laid off last fall along with a quarter of the other first-year hires. 
 ''We used to gather in someone's office, close the door, and say, 'I hate my life, why are we doing this?' '' she said. Like most other young associates interviewed for this article, she asked that her name not be used for fear of jeopardizing her climb up the already rickety ladder of a law career.
 The main reason for the squeeze is the Great Recession, which has cut deeply into the kinds of companies -- in financial services, real estate, high tech -- that are the wellsprings of fees for corporate lawyers. The client companies that survived are doing fewer deals, and driving harder bargains with their lawyers: many negotiate a flat fee for the job, meaning firms can no longer bill by the hour for every legal eagle on the case. 
 Even associates who find plenty to do worry that outstanding performance is no longer enough to protect them, said Daniel Lukasik, a Buffalo lawyer who runs an information and outreach Web site called Lawyers With Depression, adding that his traffic is up 25 percent since June, to about 25,000 visitors a month. 
 Mr. Lukasik recently received a call from a man who said he was a fifth-year associate in Manhattan who complained that he felt expendable even though he was a top performer.
 ''He said to me, 'What more do I have to do?' '' Mr. Lukasik recalled. '' 'I'm billing a large amount of hours, I'm a team player,' but he said it's very possible he might lose his job. And he was a Yale graduate, at a top-20 firm.''
 Elizabeth Tillinghast, a former lawyer who is now a practicing psychiatrist in Manhattan, said: ''Lawyers are famous for having high levels of depression and anxiety, but it has increased. Everybody's morale is down.''
 A recent survey by the New York City bar association found that 50 percent of lawyers seeking counseling from its lawyer-outreach program list mental health as their primary concern, up from 40 percent in 2005.
 The life of a law associate may always have been a grind, in which associates got used to exchanging familiar nods with the late-night cleaning crew. But it was not an existential crisis, as many say it is today. People complained -- but they did not howl. 
 A midlevel associate in the New York office of a white-shoe firm, who writes provocatively about law-firm life under the name Legal Tease on her blog, Sweet Hot Justice, described a big law firm as ''an absolute torture shack.'' 
 The worst thing about the field's contraction, she said in an interview, is that it has walled off the traditional escape route -- suffering at a law firm for a few years until you pay off your education loans, then moving onto a lower-paying but comfortable gig as in-house lawyer for a company. 
 ''I'm happy to take a huge pay cut, I'd love to get out, but there are no jobs,'' she said. ''There's nowhere to go. The revolving door is jammed and everybody is suffering.'' 
 The pain of 26-year-olds earning six figures may not seem great in a country where unemployment hovers around 10 percent. But, Legal Tease argued, that six-figure salary looks a lot smaller when you divide it by the number of hours worked. ''If you do the math, you're making less than a baby sitter -- not a nanny even, but an actual baby sitter in high school,'' she insisted. 
 She is one of the lucky ones -- definition: employed. 
 Plenty of recent law school graduates are not finding work at all, said Eileen C. Travis, the director of the New York City bar association's lawyer assistance program. ''There is pretty much a freeze on hiring,'' she said. 
 Some partners say that the next generation may have to expect less from a legal career. ''What has come to pass is that a law degree is not a ticket to a six-figure salary and a six-figure bonus,'' said Matthew A. Feldman, a partner at Willkie Farr & Gallagher in New York. 
 Smart, talented people will still find advancement within firms, he said. But ''speaking candidly,'' he added, ''in the past, associates were a little oblivious'' in presuming that if they ''simply showed up every day and didn't offend anyone, they were there indefinitely. They have had a wake-up call.'' 
 It is more than dips in income that are reshaping the law firm culture. The prestige and self-identity of being a lawyer are in play. Pre-shakeout, lawyers could tell themselves that they were, if not exactly Masters of the Universe like investment bankers, perhaps Major-Domos of a Mid-Size Galaxy. 
 As a young lawyer, you could get through 1 a.m. due-diligence sessions by reminding yourself that you were following in the tradition of Louis Brandeis, Clarence Darrow or, at least, Ally McBeal. 
 It is harder to maintain that sense of esteem now that your contract work is being farmed out to low-cost lawyers in Bangalore, and your client who is splitting up with her spouse can handle it herself with a $31.99 do-it-yourself divorce kit from Office Depot, said David Lat, the managing editor of Above the Law, a well-read blog about the legal industry.
 ''There's a different feeling in the air,'' said Mr. Lat, a Yale Law-educated former associate at a major firm. And in some quarters, the sense of outrage is giving way to simple fatigue and resignation. 
 In 2008 when firms announced cuts in bonuses and office perks, ''there was an outcry, a certain sense of entitlement,'' he said. Lawyers, being lawyers, had fight. Now, less so. 
 ''That sense of entitlement is so 2007,'' he said. With 14,000 lawyer and legal staff jobs lost since the beginning of 2008, ''to whine about how your firm no longer has chair massages on Friday seems a little petty.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: THE GOOD OLD DAYS: Commencement ceremonies at Harvard Law School in June 2003. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM BOURG/CORBIS) (ST8) DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOE ZEFF DESIGN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BASKETBALL (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



476 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2175 words

HEADLINE: 24 Hour Cycle

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD

 BODY:
At the laundromat, irregular things happen. People square off over washers -- mine; no, mine. They sit on the counters where you were planning to fold T-shirts. Women conveniently forget a negligee in a dryer so you'll find it and marry them. Street people try to sell utterly unnecessary things. Pesky process servers visit bearing summonses. People stare without mercy.
 Charles Johnson has a 10-second rule. Mr. Johnson is 44, an occasional personal trainer with loose hours, and was juggling three loads one Wednesday afternoon at the Clean Rite Center in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. He insists on doing the wash for his family (wife, two kids) ''because I do it better, not because I have to.''
 He does the cleaning too. In eight years, he said his wife has touched a mop perhaps twice. She cooks. 
 ''In a laundromat you get a lot of eye drama,'' he said. ''That's when someone may or may not like you and they look at you and you look at them and then you try not to look at them. So my rule is if you stare at me more than 10 seconds, I'll talk to you and find out why you're staring at me.'' 
 One guy passed muster. They spoke about the pyramids and a lot else. With another, Mr. Johnson ended up doing calisthenics in the park. 
 Sixty-one Speed Queen washers and 62 dryers gush and rumble 24 hours at the 5,000-square-foot Clean Rite at Putnam Avenue and Fulton Street, commingling with soft blather from flat screens hung on the wall. On a weekday, 75 to 100 people clean their clothes here; on weekends it can reach 250. Those frenzied Saturday and Sunday afternoons, people park laundry bags next to the taken machines, marking their place in line. Attendants troop around, booming out commands to keep things moving: ''Washer 21, last call. Dryer 14, empty this baby.''
 The Clean Rite sits in one of those working-class to middle-class neighborhoods that not many years ago was not a very good one -- too many drugs, hookers -- and is transitioning into a better one. The blue and gold corner laundromat arrived six years ago, not happily for some smaller, less clean laundries that have since vanished.
 For many in this city of renters stacked on top of one another in diminutive spaces, the laundromat is a vital necessity. In older apartment buildings, personal washing equipment is often prohibited; the basement laundries that do exist are frequently unattractive or unwelcoming -- or nonfunctioning.
 New York City has 2,654 laundries -- self-service ones like Clean Rite and dry cleaners who take in bags for fluff 'n' fold. That is one for every 3,151 people. They do much more than scrub out dirt. The Clean Rite is an ad hoc theater, where people flirt, debate, gossip, argue, break up, discover love, loiter, do business and just about anything else that can be squeezed into 27-minute heavy-soil cycles. 
 An assertion in the back gathered attention.
 ''Mister, you're not folding the towel properly,'' the wife said.
 ''There you go being anal again,'' the husband said. ''We are talking about a towel.'' 
 ''We are talking about my towel. Next we are going to be talking about folding your head.''
 Discussion gravitated to personal hygiene, the cellphone use of a daughter, the disappearance of a banana yogurt. It got brutal, got vulgar.
 People buried their eyes in their clothes.
 Crude washing machines go back to the 1800s, but it was the introduction of the automatic washer by Bendix in 1937 that led to the self-service laundry. They began to multiply in the mid-1940s. In those primitive days, users had to make reservations. Coin slots and meter mechanisms were notoriously unreliable. People overloaded washers. Smoke poured out.
 Clean Rite began in 1996 in Springfield Gardens, Queens. Alex Weiss, who was returning from Hong Kong, where he owned a trading business, started the company with his father, Mark, who ran basement laundries in city apartment buildings. The son liked the fact that there was no inventory and customers did the labor. Today there are 40 Clean Rites across the city, and Alex Weiss's company, Laundry Capital, controls about 150 laundromats around the country. 
 Coins are irrelevant inside the Clinton Hill Clean Rite; washers fill swipe cards at refill stations near the entrance. The cards discourage robberies and, as Alex Weiss put it, ''You don't have to get arthritis from putting the coins in the little slots.''
 Laundromats have always been recession-resistant, clothes getting dirty independent of stock indexes. But the recent economic turbulence has seen people let more time lapse between washes, stuff more clothes into machines, do it themselves rather than drop it off with the attendants, even do the wash in their bathtubs. 
 Lydia Vega, 49, is a small, rosy woman, eyes in frequent motion. As the manager of the Clean Rite, she sees things. Above all, she sees that an astonishing number of people do not know how to do laundry. 
 ''They'll say, this machine is good, but this one doesn't have enough water,'' she said. ''Well, you have nightgowns in one and towels in another. Heavy clothes will absorb more water. They don't know what cycle. What clothes to put with what. They will put in way too much soap. If I see a washer and it's got 14 minutes left and there's too much soap, I'll put in fabric softener, which will cut it.''
 When not rescuing clueless customers, she does wash and fold for drop-off customers. 
 She knows the regulars, rarely by name but by washing habits. Like the retired couple who insist on machines No. 1 and 2 because of their proximity to the front windows. They like to watch the passing humanity as their clothes spin.
 People leave all sorts of things in their laundry: iPods, keys, crayons, remote controls. ''Once a woman called me over and said the washer was on fire,'' Ms. Vega recalled. ''I rushed over and it was a flashlight that had turned on.''
 The attendants give advice on both laundry and life.
 Graham Holley, 39, studying to be a stand-up comic, was debating which comic character to choose for a class assignment. Beverly Edwards, who has been working at the Clean Rite for five years, said use the country bumpkin one, it reminded her of Gomer Pyle. He used it. The teacher said it was great, it reminded him of Gomer Pyle. 
 Someone asked Ms. Vega for tennis balls. The way to dry a comforter is with a couple of tennis balls: they keep it fluffy. People bring their own balls, but Ms. Vega tries to keep some on hand. People don't always return them.
 John Fuller, 51, bounced in with a merry smile: Anybody need him? He's the animated neighborhood handyman, available for any and all odd jobs. The laundromat is his unofficial office.
 He had been overhauling a bathroom at the deli across the street, and popped in to see if fresh work loomed. Actually, a man with a busted pipe had just been in looking for him. He knew you go to the Clean Rite and find John Fuller. 
 Mr. Fuller has his own washer and dryer, but twice a week washes his work clothes here to spare his machines the layers of grime. 
 The characters come with regularity, people with some interest in washing clothes but not necessarily very much interest.
 Richard Orange sat near the side door one Thursday afternoon. He wore a saturnine expression and ate a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, no soiled clothes in sight. Mr. Orange, 65, said he was a retired subway booth clerk who lived nearby with his uncle's family. 
 He studied a sheaf of papers, awaiting a spark of inspiration. Much of his time at the laundry is spent scribbling fastidiously in notebooks. He is writing a book. He has slaved at it for seven years. He described it as a ''very important'' work cautioning about humankind's destruction of Earth. The framework for it is three children who visit another solar system, whose leaders tell them to return home and warn civilization about its malevolent ways. 
 ''The theme of my book is man needs to stop kidding himself and get his act together,'' he said.
 The working title is ''The Final Spiritual Cosmic Link.''
 One of the more mysterious visitors is the lost soul who parks a shopping cart outside brimming with bottles. She gets on the pay phone, calling 311 to complain vigorously about transgressions against her, mainly about flawed tenants in houses she says she owns. 
 Her name is Christine Alfayed. She is 55 and homeless -- by choice, as she tells it. ''I am an upper-upper-class person,'' she said. ''I know I look like a vagrant. That is so people don't bother me.''
 She said she is married to Donald J. Trump, that Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is her adopted uncle, that she owns the Pathmark at the Atlantic Terminal mall nearby, that she is bidding on a penthouse in Manhattan, that she used to be a physician's assistant and that since the summer of 2007 she has lived on the street. 
 By redeeming bottles and cans, she said, she makes enough to eat and to do her laundry once a month. ''I have no financial problems, none.'' 
 She wheeled off, paused at a garbage bin, reached in. 
 The dead of night, the witching hours. The noise tapered off. A few washers going, sloshing loads. Who does the wash on the graveyard shift? 
 Alex Sherba and Rebecca Stabile, both 25. Last September, they moved here from Rhode Island, where work opportunities were invisible. He's a musician. She teaches theater.
 Why come to the Clean Rite at 1 a.m.? ''We procrastinate a lot,'' Mr. Sherba said. 
 Ms. Stabile said, ''We often do it late because we can't find a time when we can both come. We do it together because we have to carry the laundry down the block.'' 
 They had two large, stuffed, rolling suitcases.
 While they waited, they played cards: Uno and rummy. He was ahead. Then she was, stomping him.
 An aisle over was Henry Kelly, 45, a welfare investigator. He is single, lives in the East Village, drives nearly five miles to the Clean Rite. ''The machinery is very reliable,'' he said. 
 On that Friday, he said, ''I got home early from work and took a nap. Then I was up and I had a million and one things to do this weekend, so I said I'll do the laundry.'' 
 Every other Saturday, Carlene James climbs into bed at 10 and sets her alarm for 2:30 a.m. She rises without rousing her husband and four kids. By 3, she is at the Clean Rite. She chooses this moment to do her linens. She requires three super-giant washers, and there are exactly three. At this ungodly hour, competition is zero. 
 She is 36, a school office manager. Her apartment building has its own laundry room, but it's too slow there. ''I'm very fussy with my clothes,'' she said. ''I put soap in during both cycles. I'm always here when they're done so no one touches my clothes. I once got in an argument with a guy who said I was taking too many dryers. That's why it's good to come at 3 a.m.''
 Cleavie Jordan, 47, the midnight-to-8 a.m. attendant, said perhaps a dozen customers came in during the shift, sluggish for his taste. Occasionally, though, the small crimes of the city enliven the night. A month or so ago, three guys beat up someone outside. A continuing issue is deadbeats wanting to use the bathroom to do drugs. ''I can tell by looking at them,'' Mr. Jordan said. ''I tell them no and they curse me out.'' 
 Since virtually the only money the laundromat keeps around is sealed in the swipe-card machines, which themselves are embedded in the wall, and an ATM, there is low motivation for robberies. Which does not mean they never happen.
 One recent evening, an attendant dashed out for a sandwich. In a New York half-minute, a street character stole behind the front desk and snatched all the detergent and fabric softener and bleach he could hold. The soap thief.
 People sell things at the laundromat: DVDs, pots, knife sets, socks, sneakers; don't ask where they came from. One evening a man was selling steaks, to undetectable interest. A regular who hawks movies circulated with a portable player to preview selections. Someone took ''Precious.'' Someone took ''Nine.'' $5 each. Another man was offering a silver flashlight: $3. Two minutes later: $2.
 On it went: smelly clothes, soap, chatter, life.
 A woman wearing a sweatshirt inscribed with ''Pain Is Weakness Leaving the Body'' put $10 on her swipe card. A sinewy woman in relaxed-fit jeans studied a manual to become a court security guard. A man with pocked skin was fixated on a talk show where a woman discussed her habit of eating toilet paper.
 Henry Fernandez, 57, moseyed in with his wife, Yaya, a couple of loads to do. He had no legitimate reason to be at the Clean Rite. A washer and dryer sit in the basement of his house a few blocks away. He comes to socialize. He's well-known in the neighborhood. His mother is famous for cooking meals and bestowing them on the needy. Her name is Felicia Smith, and people know her as ''Mrs. Smith, the Puerto Rican woman.'' 
 He was talking now, to this man, that woman. ''It's pleasant here,'' he said. ''You never know who you'll run into. What can I say, I really like the laundromat.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A TRIP: Henry Kelly, a welfare investigator who lives in the East Village, drives nearly five miles to do his laundry at the Clean Rite in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. ''The machinery is very reliable,'' he said.(MB1)
ROUND AND ROUND: The manager, Lydia Vega, second from top at right, keeps tabs on the 61 washers and 62 dryers and on customers like Tamiko Jackson, top left, and Rebecca Stabile and Alex Sherba, bottom left.
 RECESSION-RESISTANT: On weekend days, as many as 250 people use the laundromat.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL NAGLE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(MB6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (89%); COIN OPERATED LAUNDRIES (89%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (71%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



477 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; SURFACING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 556 words

HEADLINE: Designs on a Boston Hot Spot

BYLINE: By ERICA CERULO

 BODY:
BACK in 2006, the inhabitants of Fort Point said to be home to New England's largest concentration of visual artists, met the news of plans for luxury condos with predictable resistance. Goldman Properties, a national real estate development firm, intended to turn the onetime industrial hub on Boston's Inner Harbor into the city's newest hot spot -- Boston's SoHo or South Beach. But much to the relief of the many artists, schemes to convert the stout 19th-century masonry buildings that define the neighborhood's architecture haven't come to fruition, thanks to the economic downturn.
 Yet despite the change in development plans, the district has evolved in the last few years, though at a slower, more manageable pace. As would be expected, design is the central retail focus. The Fort Point Arts Community (617-423-4299; fortpointarts.org), an organization that supports and promotes the local creative set, has been hosting an open-studios weekend every fall for three decades (this year, giving visitors access to the paint-splattered work spaces of about 150 neighborhood artists). Last winter it introduced a shop that sells wares made by local artists, ranging from scarves to prints. 
 Other artsy boutiques dot the neighborhood's maze of streets. Front (25 Channel Center Street; 857-362-7289; bobsyouruncle.com), a quirky shop that opened in 2008, specializes in clever stationery and tableware. Birch and Willow (319 Rear A Street, third floor; 617-423-3437; birchandwillow.com) offers a selection of lighting made from plant materials like twigs and branches (a 20-inch-high ''Thicket'' sconce is $295). 
 Then there's the waterfront Institute of Contemporary Art (100 Northern Avenue; 617-478-3100; icaboston.org), which last year hosted the first museum retrospective of Shepard Fairey, of Obama poster fame. Through March 28, ICA is exhibiting immersive video projections by the Polish artist Krzysztof Wodiczko; it also features a well-curated gift shop with items like pyramid-shaped mirrors ($80 for three). 
 New food and drink options have followed the art influx, most notably two space-sharing spots from Barbara Lynch, the restaurateur behind Boston gems like No. 9 Park. On the top floor is year-old Sportello (348 Congress Street; 617-737-1234; sportelloboston.com) -- Italian for counter service -- offering cozy, pasta-centric dishes like chestnut bigoli with lobster, sage and brown butter ($17). Downstairs is Drink (617-695-1806; drinkfortpoint.com), where impeccable cocktails (all $10) include a neighborhood namesake, which adds Benedictine to a conventional Manhattan.
 There are plenty of tempting daytime options, like a branch of Flour (12 Farnsworth Street; 617-338-4333; flourbakery.com), a bakery and cafe serving cinnamon-cream brioche ($2.95) and roasted lamb sandwiches ($7.50), and Channel Cafe (300 Summer Street; 617-426-0695; channel-cafe.com), delivering a locavore fix.
 A too-cool attempt at a mixed clothing-and-dining concept, Achilles Project, closed its doors in August, but perhaps that's just a sign that the Fort Point growth is developing at a healthy pace. In February, the 55-acre area achieved Landmark District status, making it much tougher for developers to strip away the Boston Wharf Company-constructed buildings -- news that definitely made residents happy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Sportello, Italian for counter service, has joined boutiques and cafes in the Fort Point section. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE McDONALD THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RETAILERS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%)

COMPANY: CAST SA (54%)

TICKER: CAS (PAR) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



478 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CT; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ARTS CONNECTICUT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: A String of Successes In New London Music

BYLINE: By PHILLIP LUTZ

DATELINE: New London 

 BODY:
 THE bassist Brian Torff is known worldwide for his glittering performances with the piano giants George Shearing, Marian McPartland and Errol Garner. So it was something of a surprise to find him, on a rainy night after Christmas, leading a piano-free trio in a basement club here. 
 But New London's music scene is full of surprises these days. Despite long-term problems with large projects, it is registering small successes: thriving indie-rock bars, a revitalized regional symphony, a nascent improvisers' collective, a new performance space and the Jazz Underground, a new club that was packed for Mr. Torff's show. 
 ''New London has always been on the verge of greatness, but never quite crossed that line,'' said Bob Sylvester, 67, a co-owner of the club and a native of New London. ''But it does seem a little different this time.''
 Since opening in September, the Jazz Underground, tucked away on Golden Street, has been drawing weeknight customers at a fairly steady rate with local and regional talent. The club's better-known weekend attractions -- like Mr. Torff and the singer Giacomo Gates -- have easily filled its 50 seats. 
 For these artists, the Jazz Underground, whose ambience and acoustics suggest an appreciation of club design, offers a place to experiment outside the glare of Manhattan. Mr. Torff made the most of the opportunity -- playing front-line melodies like a trumpeter, liberally tapping his bass with a timbale stick and, generally, fashioning a set that went well beyond a straightforward rendering of standards. 
 Speaking between sets, Mr. Torff, who is the music program director at Fairfield University, said that he liked the artistic freedom the club afforded him. And he enjoyed the chance to give a boost to the fortunes of a rare jazz startup -- to which, he said, he was offering his services at a reduced rate. 
 ''We've got to pull together,'' he said.
 Like the Jazz Underground, the Oasis Pub, on nearby Bank Street, also had a full house -- albeit a more animated one. In the club, a growing magnet for local and out-of-town bands, perhaps a dozen people sat at the bar or in the single booth, while 60 or so others gyrated to the punk-inspired sounds of Brazen Hussy, one of three groups on the bill.
 Just keeping the action under control in the close quarters seemed a full-time job for the major-domo, Sean Murray. But Mr. Murray, 29, has also been prominent behind the scenes, booking the bands and, in recent years, prodding the club's owners to enlarge the stage and make other improvements to the space.
 Mr. Murray, who assembled more than a dozen bands for the I Am Festival in the city's Waterfront Park in September, has won over cultural figures like David Dorfman, 54, chairman of the dance department at Connecticut College. Mr. Dorfman, who doubles as a saxophonist in the ensemble Above/Below, has played the festival and the pub, which he said he admired for its programming and ''appropriately grungy'' atmosphere. 
 ''To me,'' he said, ''the notion that 'Hey, I want to hear three great bands at the Oasis tonight' is a lovely night in New London.'' 
 But Mr. Murray has had less success in winning over Steven M. Sigel, the longtime executive director of the Garde Arts Center, on State Street, the small downtown's most extensive cultural development. Mr. Sigel has been cool to Mr. Murray's suggestion that he present indie-rock bands.
 As he stood in the middle of the Garde's new performance space -- coincidentally named the Oasis Room, it consists of a floor, a stage, lighting and sound equipment but no permanent seating -- Mr. Sigel said, ''It doesn't make sense doing something here that you'd just as soon see in a bar.'' 
 He also said that the Oasis Room -- which was carved out of an existing banquet area after plans for a more elaborate theater stalled in the financial downturn -- had, since opening in 2008, been filling its 125 portable seats with performers like the singer-songwriters Simone and Tom Rush. 
 The space has been a bright spot for the Garde, a nonprofit group charged with maintaining a cavernous former movie theater in the same building as the Oasis Room. Despite a $14 million renovation, hundreds of the theater's 1,400-plus seats have routinely gone unsold since the theaters of the Mohegan Sun and Foxwoods casinos opened in the 1990s. The casinos vie with the Garde for talent and ticket buyers, Mr. Sigel said. 
 The recession has led to program cuts in the big theater and a recent $25,000 payment from the City Council to help it operate, Mr. Sigel said. But, he said, the picture brightened recently when the Mystic Aquarium and National Geographic Live agreed to present a series of five themed shows -- the first, a concert by the Soweto Gospel Choir, is set for next month.
 Another user of the space, the Eastern Connecticut Symphony Orchestra, has been generating excitement with a new conductor, Toshiyuki Shimada, who has expanded the orchestra's repertory, serving up a piece by a contemporary American, Jennifer Higdon, at his official debut concert in November. The concert also attracted a big-name soloist, the pianist Peter Serkin.
 ''I want to continue to have this great passion on the stage so it will permeate into the audience,'' said Mr. Shimada, who is also the music director of the Yale Symphony Orchestra.
 Gabriel Kastelle, a violist with the orchestra, praised the new conductor for his commitment to 20th-century composers -- the orchestra's next concert, on Jan. 23, will feature works by Jacques Ibert and Igor Stravinsky -- and suggested that his programming sense would appeal to New Londoners' restive spirit. 
 Mr. Kastelle also said he hoped to tap that spirit by drawing on New London's pool of adventurous instrumentalists for a new collective dedicated to pushing the boundaries of improvised music. The collective has held two sessions in two months, and more are in the works, he said. 
 ''There is definitely a ferment that is nice to feel,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HIGH NOTES: Clockwise from top left: Brian Torff on bass at the Jazz Underground
Saturday night at the Oasis Pub on Bank Street
Sean Murray, who books bands at the Oasis
the restored theater of the Garde Arts Center
 Steven M. Sigel, executive director of the Garde.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY C. M. GLOVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (90%); MUSIC (90%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); FESTIVALS (78%); POP & ROCK (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (76%); CHRISTMAS (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



479 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN PEARL RIVER, N.Y.; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1483 words

HEADLINE: Lots for the Family to Love

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER

 BODY:
A ROCKLAND County hamlet in Orangetown, several miles southwest of Nyack, Pearl River is not nearly as trendy as its neighbors. It doesn't have Hudson River views or storied estates. Its downtown of unadorned storefronts is a plain Jane next to Nyack's or Piermont's. 
 But residents like Cathy and Peter Clancy have found more than enough to satisfy them. One asset they cite is simple good looks: small- and medium-size Capes and colonials on well-kept lots. Another is the homespun values of many residents and merchants.
 It has been 14 years since they paid in the low $200,000s for a four-bedroom two-bath ranch on a quarter acre. Today the Clancys -- he is a police sergeant in New York City and she is a saleswoman for a trade show company -- are rearing three children in Pearl River. It's a place without pretensions, Mrs. Clancy said -- ''a good place for a family.'' 
 Another plus: Even as home prices in trendier neighboring towns rose sharply in the early 2000s and then plummeted in the market crash, the value of the Clancys' ranch inched slowly up to the $400,000s and held relatively steady.
 As Richard Ellis, the managing member of Ellis Sotheby's International Realty in Nyack, put it, ''Properties next to the Hudson had more demand and soared in price more quickly. And while communities like Pearl River did not, they also did not fall as much in value. It's been a safe, solid investment for a lot of buyers.''
 Not that the poor economy hasn't been felt in the hamlet. The four-block downtown shopping area, especially, is pockmarked with vacancies. 
 ''These days we live in the shadow of malls,'' said Jack Neugarten, known as Ed, and the owner since 1978 of Ed's Market, an old-style butcher shop with sawdust on the floors. Mr. Neugarten prides himself on knowing most customers by name, and on the quality of his meat -- in particular the corned beef. It is especially sought after around St. Patrick's Day, as census numbers show about 47 percent of residents are of Irish descent, and the second-largest St. Patrick's Day parade in the state is held there (the largest being in Manhattan), according to Denis M. Troy, a former president of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, an Irish Catholic group with some 700 members in the area. 
 Bemoaning the proximity of the Palisades Center in West Nyack, the Nanuet Mall in Nanuet, and large stores just to the south in New Jersey, which do not tax clothing, Mr. Neugarten declared, ''They do an injustice to small merchants like myself.''
 Still, said Mr. Troy, an Orangetown councilman who lives in Pearl River, getting any kind of competitive traction in the current economy isn't easy for a hamlet without its own government. 
 As one of 10 hamlets and 4 villages in Orangetown (among them Piermont and part of Nyack), Pearl River must vie for government grants to improve sidewalks and lighting and otherwise make the downtown a more desirable shopping destination.
 And as for becoming a village -- with its own local government and presumably more clout -- that idea is not popular with most residents, said Daniel G. Smith, a landscaper and member of the local Rotary Club who grew up in Pearl River. ''If the town had its own administration,'' he said, ''it would just present another level of taxes, and most of us don't want that.''
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 Pearl River has about 16,000 people; it is 17 miles north of Manhattan and just north of New Jersey. Slightly less than half of its seven-square-mile area is zoned residential. Of the rest, about half a square mile is set aside as open space and about a third of a square mile as parkland; the remainder is commercial, according to the assessor's office. 
 One of the largest parks is the municipal Blue Hill Golf Course to the east, overlooking Lake Tappan, a reservoir that cuts through Orangetown.
 The hamlet was laid out in the 1870s around Central Avenue downtown. Today, roads fanning out from the avenue are lined with tidy bungalows, ranches, Capes and colonials, on lots of one-eighth to three-fourths of an acre throughout the hilly terrain.
 One large commercial landholder is Glorious Sun Robert Martin, a Manhattan- and Hong Kong-based real estate company that owns the 1.1 million square foot Blue Hill Plaza, one of the largest office parks between New York City and Albany. The two Blue Hill buildings -- the taller one, at 21 stories, was one of the county's first skyscrapers in the early 1970s -- are on 93 heavily treed acres along Veteran's Memorial Drive in the southeast section. Pfizer, another major commercial landowner, occupies a 550-acre site, most of it in the northern part of the hamlet.
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Prices range from $329,000, for a two-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath ranch, to $1.135 million for a five-bedroom three-and-a-half-bath colonial. The median for a single-family house in 2009 was $418,000, down from $445,000 the year before and $443,300 in 2004, according to the Lower Hudson Valley Multiple Listing Service. 
 Mr. Smith, 52, the Rotarian, says it was in 1951 that his father, Lawrence, now 89, bought the colonial that the two men now share with a third-generation family member, his son Sean, 22. The eldest Mr. Smith paid $13,000. 
 Newcomers like Dan and Kate Inserra, who own Danny's BBQ Bar & Grill in the downtown, are dealing with a vastly different market. But Pearl River still offers bargains, especially compared with many other sections of Rockland. For instance the listing service put the median for a single-family in Upper Nyack last year at $550,000. 
 Mr. and Mrs. Inserra, who are renting a carriage house for $1,000 a month, are looking to spend about $400,000 on a three- or four-bedroom house. ''We have lots to choose from,'' Mr. Inserra said, explaining that they will wait to see if prices drop further, but will act in time to take advantage of the government's tax credit for first-time home buyers. Realtor.com now lists eight single-families from $400,000 to $450,000, including a four-bedroom two-bath ranch at $428,998, with taxes of $7,773 a year. Condominiums start at $165,000, for a studio; a two-bedroom one-and-a-half-bath is listed at $284,500. In total, there are about a dozen now listed. 
 WHAT TO DO
 A focus of the downtown entertainment scene is Jane on Main, a combination restaurant/gathering place/shop that its owner, Jane Carroll, opened in August. It has become a favorite destination for many groups, among them young mothers with toddlers during the day, and couples and young singles later on. Kenneth Olori, 23, a lifelong resident, who repairs construction equipment, often heads to one of the several bars in towns with friends, or to Pearl River Lanes for a night of bowling. Increasingly, though, he spends evenings at Jane on Main, which, as he put it, offers ''good food and good conversation.''
 For families like the Clancys, with school-age children, the general area offers a variety of recreational pursuits. During Christmas vacation, Mrs. Clancy and her three children -- a girl, 12, and boys 10 and 7 -- skied at Mount Peter in nearby Warwick and skated on an outdoor ice rink at Bear Mountain.
 THE SCHOOLS
 The Pearl River School District, which encompasses most of the hamlet of Pearl River as well as slivers of Orangeburg, West Nyack, Nanuet and Tappan, has an enrollment of about 2,700 in three elementary schools, a middle school and a high school. 
 Of fourth-graders last year, 92 percent met state proficiency standards in English and 97 percent in math, versus 77 and 87 percent statewide.
 SAT averages last spring were 531 in reading, 563 in math and 535 in writing, versus 480, 500 and 470 statewide. 
 Of the 198 graduates in 2009, said Sandy Cokely, a district spokeswoman, 70 percent are attending four-year colleges, 23 percent are at two-year colleges and 1 percent at vocational schools. Another 2 percent entered the military, 1 percent joined the work force and the rest were undecided. 
 THE COMMUTE
 The train commute to the city on New Jersey Transit's Pascack Valley Line to Secaucus Junction and then Pennsylvania Station, or to Hoboken and then via PATH train, takes about 55 minutes. A monthly ticket costs $215. Some commuters drive about 25 minutes to the park-and-ride section of the Vince Lombardi Service Area of the New Jersey Turnpike and board a New Jersey Transit bus into the Port Authority, which takes another 30 minutes or so, depending on traffic.
 THE HISTORY
 Pearl River, originally called Muddy Brook, was renamed about 1870, after a resident said he had discovered pearls in mussels from the waterway, according to Robert P. Knight, an author of a book published in honor of the hamlet's centennial in 1973. Julius E. Braunsdorf bought and developed the land in the early 1870s, donating a strip of property running through it to the now-defunct New Jersey and New York Railroad. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: STRIKING: Bowling is a popular pastime in Pearl River, a Rockland hamlet that makes up for its lack of Hudson River views with tidy streets and affordable real estate. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN STAVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (89%); AUCTIONS (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (73%); PARADES & MARCHES (72%); HOME PRICES (70%); MEAT STORES (67%); TRADE SHOWS (53%); CENSUS (50%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%)

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



480 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4550 words

HEADLINE: The Immaterialist

BYLINE: By ARTHUR LUBOW. 
Arthur Lubow is a contributing writer for the magazine. His last article was about the preservation of modern dance.

 BODY:
I first encountered Tino Sehgal's work under ideal conditions: total ignorance. Happening to be in Berlin in 2006 at the time of the city's art biennial, I heard from an art-dealer friend that there was one exhibition not to miss. ''I won't tell you anything more,'' he said, as he walked me to the site and bid me farewell. I trod up a creaking staircase in a building from the turn of the last century and entered a decayed ballroom, its ornate moldings and gilt mirrors testifying to a more glorious past. Lying on the floor, a man and a woman, fully dressed, were embracing languidly. There was no one else in the room. My presence went unacknowledged. In a state of mounting confusion and embarrassment, I stayed until I could stand it no longer, and then I retreated down the staircase. Out on the street, I sighed with relief, because I once again knew where I was. 
 Had I remained longer, I might have recognized that the two were re-enacting the curved-arm caressing gesture of Rodin's marble statue ''The Kiss,'' as well as poses from other osculatory works, some less widely known but in their own way iconic, like Jeff Koons's ceramic sculpture series ''Made in Heaven.'' And eventually I would have heard one member of the intertwined couple speak these words: ''Tino Sehgal. 'Kiss.' 2002.'' But I didn't need that information for the piece to linger in my memory and arouse my curiosity.
 I knew the name of the artist, and I watched for him. Although Sehgal was very busy, thriving in the incubation culture of art fairs and international exhibitions, he did not surface in New York until his inaugural show at the Marian Goodman Gallery in November 2007. This time when I walked into the exhibition space, I had more of an idea of what to expect, but once again I was knocked off-balance. ''Welcome to this situation,'' a group of six people said in unison to greet me, ending with the auditory flourish of a sharp intake of breath; then they slowly backed off, all the while facing me, and froze into unnatural positions. At which point one of the group recited a quotation: ''In 1958, somebody said, 'The income that men derive producing things of slight consequence is of great consequence.' '' Jumping off from that statement, the conversationalists -- Sehgal refers to them as ''interpreters'' -- began a lively back and forth. Occasionally one of the six might turn to a gallery visitor and utter a compliment or say, ''Or what do you think?'' and then incorporate that person's comment into the exchange of words. Mostly they seemed content to natter at high velocity among themselves. It all continued until the moment when a new visitor arrived, an event that acted as a sort of rewind button. ''Welcome to this situation,'' they chanted again, breathing in and backing off as they had done before and then assuming another stylized stance. A new quotation was dropped and another discussion commenced. Just as in Berlin, I felt a battleground developing in my mind, between a fascinated desire to stay and a disquieted urge to flee. 
 If you are not a devotee of the cult of contemporary art, especially its Conceptualist cadre, you may feel a whirring sensation beneath your eyelids starting up right about now. Your skepticism isn't, or shouldn't be, a matter of ''Is this art?'' Almost a century has elapsed since Marcel Duchamp aced that one by attaching titles to everyday objects (a urinal, a bicycle wheel) and demonstrating that anything can be art if the artist says it is. Nevertheless, the ineffaceable critical question remains: ''Is it good art?'' Later this month, when Sehgal's one-man show takes over the Guggenheim Museum's rotunda for a six-week run, thousands of noninitiates, many no doubt having come to see the Frank Lloyd Wright building without any advance notification of what art exhibitions are on, will be able to decide for themselves.
 If the overall response to ''This Situation'' at the Marian Goodman Gallery is any guide, even some who expect to hate Sehgal's work will leave enthralled. ''I often see shows I don't like, but this was the only show I've ever seen that didn't like me,'' wrote New York magazine's art critic, Jerry Saltz, judging ''This Situation'' to be the best exhibition he encountered in 2008. Unlike so much of contemporary art, Sehgal's art evokes passionate reactions among the unschooled as well as the cognoscenti. Anyone who has seen the onlookers trudging passively through an art museum (all too often the Guggenheim ramp resembles the humane cattle slaughterhouses designed by Temple Grandin) can appreciate the achievement. What fascinates me about Sehgal is that working only with human clay, he can call forth thoughtful and visceral responses from people who remain unmoved by more conventional paintings and sculptures. When I expressed this to him, he laughed at me. ''I'm more ambitious than that,'' he said. ''That's too little of a game.''
 At any time of day, Sehgal, who is 33, looks as if he has just tumbled out of bed. His tousled hair is innocent of exposure to a brush. His overcoat long ago parted company with its lining. In the six months since we first met, I have usually seen him in the same black jeans, black one-button pullover and white sneakers. My initial impression was that this was a man who was completely careless about his appearance, but I eventually concluded that the scrupulous inattention to wardrobe and grooming was of a piece with his refusal to fly on airplanes (visiting America from his home in Berlin, he travels by ship) or to carry a cellphone. More to the point, this conspicuous avoidance of unnecessary consumption conforms to the credo that underlies his work. Sehgal makes art that does not require the transformation of any materials. He refuses to add objects to a society that he says is overly encumbered with them.
 It's his rigorous devotion to an art that vanishes instantly that Sehgal and his curators emphasize. ''There's a purity to his approach,'' says Catherine Wood, the curator of contemporary art and performance at the Tate Modern in London. ''There are a few artists who are making live action that is based in sculpture, but what sets him apart is his purist insistence on the immateriality -- or ephemeral materiality -- of the work, so it crystallizes and disperses again, so there is no trace left at all.'' Fifty years ago, Yves Klein sold empty spaces in Paris in return for gold; the buyers received a certificate of ownership. In the conceptual art that flowered in the late 1960s and early '70s, artists like Bruce Nauman, Dan Graham, Vito Acconci, Joan Jonas and Lynda Benglis performed before a camera; the videotape documented that action and became a commodity that could be sold by an art dealer. Around the same time, Michael Asher and Daniel Buren were staging interventions in art museums, removing panels from the building facade or paintings from the wall and calling attention to the change; if you are interested, you can check out the installation photographs. Then and now, the gallery that represents Ian Wilson will sell you the right to have a discussion with the artist; once it has occurred, the conversation is commemorated with a certificate that belongs to you. In their flight from the object-based art market, these Conceptualist and post-Minimalist artists left behind them, like bread crumbs, objects that provided a path back in.
 In contrast, Sehgal is an absolutist. He does not allow his pieces to be photographed. They are not explained by wall labels or accompanied by catalogs. No press releases herald the openings of his exhibitions; indeed, there are no official openings, just unceremonious start dates. All of this can engender skepticism, but the aspect of Sehgal's work that his detractors find most irritating is the way the art is sold. First of all, there is the fact that it is sold, just as if it were made of, say, cast bronze: in editions of four to six (with Sehgal retaining an additional ''artist's proof'') at prices between $85,000 and $145,000 apiece. Unlike some of his Conceptualist predecessors, Sehgal is totally unapologetic about the fact that his work is commercially traded. ''The market is something you can't be outside of and you can't want to be outside of, if you are doing anything specialized,'' he told an audience last May at the Museum of Modern Art, which bought ''Kiss'' in 2008 in a transaction that the museum's director, Glenn Lowry, deemed ''one of the most elaborate and difficult acquisitions we have ever made.''
 As far as money goes, at a museum-discount price of $70,000 it was a minor MoMA purchase; but Lowry was not overstating the cost of time and energy. Since there can be no written contract, the sale of a Sehgal piece must be conducted orally, with a lawyer or a notary public on hand to witness it. The work is described; the right to install it for an unspecified number of times under the supervision of Sehgal or one of his representatives is stipulated; and the price is stated. The buyer agrees to certain restrictions, perhaps the most important being the ban on future documentation, which extends to any subsequent transfers of ownership. ''If the work gets resold, it has to be done in the same way it was acquired originally,'' says Jan Mot, who is Sehgal's dealer in Brussels. ''If it is not done according to the conditions of the first sale, one could debate whether it was an authentic sale. It's like making a false Tino Sehgal, if you start making documentation and a certificate.''
 The act of going to a logical extreme can have illuminating results. Yasmil Raymond, who worked at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis for five years before becoming a curator at the Dia Art Foundation in New York, says that the Walker's acquisition of a Sehgal work, ''This Objective of That Object,'' was the most contentious in her time there. In the piece, five interpreters surround a visitor, turn their backs to her and declaim, ''The objective of this work is to become the object of a discussion.'' If the visitor says nothing, the interpreters will eventually crumple to the floor; but a response will reanimate them, and one of them will cry, ''A comment, a comment, we have a comment!'' And at that, with the visitor's comment as a starting point, a conversation begins. What is curious is that the purchase of the work generated its own passionate discussion. ''At the Walker, they have six board meetings a year, and this was the most difficult one I ever was at,'' Raymond says. ''It was the only time someone on the acquisitions committee voted against an acquisition. There was a small insurrection. Three people abstained, and one voted against it. It was a polemical reaction. Then all the other board members had to defend and insist on why they were voting for this. They were really articulate on why the Walker had to acquire the work, about supporting unsafe ideas, on the risk of creativity and artistic practice.'' It was exactly the kind of conversation Sehgal hopes to provoke.
 Over the course of a career barely a decade long, Sehgal has produced two kinds of art. The earliest works, like ''Kiss,'' are silent and sculptural: a viewer encounters a piece in a museum or gallery just as if it were a marble statue. Sehgal is adamant that he is producing a work of art, not theater: unlike a performance, a Sehgal is on display for the entire time the institution is open, and the human actors are identified no more precisely than as if they were bronze or marble. (They are, however, paid.) But because the piece is formed of people, not of metal or stone, the viewer is aware that, regardless of how absorbed the models seem to be in their activity, at any moment they have the capability of turning their gaze on him -- as, indeed, they periodically do in ''Kiss.'' That potential for interaction is explored extensively in Sehgal's second line of work, the ''constructed situations'' (like ''This Situation''), in which the visitor is drawn in and becomes a participant.
 Residing in the ether of spoken instructions and ephemeral enactment, these pieces can misleadingly appear to be slapdash or freely improvisatory. In fact, Sehgal supervises his work with painstaking care, in the unremitting state of anxiety of a control freak who has opted to work in an uncontrollable milieu. ''These pieces are very delicate,'' Raymond observes. ''The human being is such an explosive material. You have to treat it delicately and sometimes put pressure on it. We're dealing with the most fragile of all material -- the human mind.''
 In the Guggenheim show, ''Kiss'' will be on view on the ground floor, but the main work is a constructed situation that dates from 2006 and has been installed twice in Europe. At Sehgal's insistence, and for the sake of allowing a visitor to experience the piece with something like the Edenic innocence in which I fell upon ''Kiss,'' I won't divulge what happens other than to say that on the spiral ramp of the rotunda, each individual or group will be engaged in conversation by several different interpreters of very different ages. To install the work, Sehgal must enlist the interpreters, train them and, finally, cajole them into showing up regularly and keeping up their enthusiasm.
 First comes the recruitment. For older candidates, many of whom are college instructors, Sehgal relied on recommendations and then held lengthy personal interviews during the past year. The younger ones he and his team had to find in casting calls. If you regard Sehgal as a 21st-century sculptor who abjures digging stone out of a ravaged earth, then the interviews that he conducted of grade-school children and teenage college students throughout the city were the ecologically informed equivalent of the scouting missions that Michelangelo made to the marble quarries of Carrara. The small children he sought were between ages 8 and 12, while the teenagers were typically college freshmen. Like the older interpreters, the teenagers would be required to converse in an interesting and intelligent way, but the children had to be able chiefly to encapsulate what they were told in a summary form. They also needed to be outgoing enough to chat readily with strangers. In November, I watched Sehgal, accompanied by a Guggenheim assistant curator and professionals from a New York-based casting agency, interview groups of little kids and teenagers, usually eight at a time.
 One sample of children came mostly from St. Ann's School, a private school in Brooklyn. ''I'm just going to ask what your name is and how old you are and what you like doing, and then after we're going to play a little game,'' Sehgal announced, as he would say in pretty much precisely those words at every audition of children. An 8-year-old boy with a piping voice and charming self-possession said, ''The last thing I've done is create a litmus solution.'' An 8-year-old girl favored musical comedy. The others had equally enriching extracurricular activities to report.
 Then it was time for the game, which Sehgal explained would begin simply and become more difficult. The game consisted of listening to the answer to a question and then repeating what was said. Taking suggestions for a question from the children, he chose, ''What is a stool?''
 A young woman from the casting agency said: ''A stool is a piece of furniture that has four legs and usually is taller than a chair. You can sit on a stool, and sometimes you can climb on a stool to get something.''
 The children raised their hands to offer their recaps. Like the blind men around the elephant, they would get different parts of it. Sehgal listened. From those who did not volunteer, he tried to coax a response.
 The game escalated to ''What is a computer?'' and then ''What is a democracy?''
 ''A democracy is a system of government where the citizens of the country elect their leader,'' said another casting agent. ''The United States is a democracy. The hope is that in electing a leader, the voice of the people will be heard through that representative. The opposite of a democracy is a dictatorship, where one person has all the say and all the power.''
 Now we were in deeper waters. Most of the children had trouble pronouncing the word ''democracy,'' and their capacity to recall and regurgitate the disjointed bits of information varied appreciably. With the final question -- ''What is an abstraction?'' -- things became more challenging still. Forget about pronunciation or any comprehension of the term. What they came back with was a mixture of things they remembered and things they made up. Those whose recollections outdistanced their imaginations were the preferred ones, so long as they were not incapacitated by shyness.
 Afterward Sehgal reviewed the young contestants with his associates, each of whom had written down ratings. He compared the students with ones they had recently seen at the Thurgood Marshall Academy in Harlem, where he found a higher proportion of promising candidates adept at reciting back what they heard.
 ''The thing about these St. Ann's kids is they're socially very able,'' he told me. ''The Thurgood Marshall kids are put in the world to receive -- they are there to pay attention. It's not that the St. Ann's kids are not intelligent. They are. They are already in the mind-set of 'What can I bring into the world out of myself?' ''
 For the Guggenheim exhibition, such qualities would be more appropriate in the teenage interpreters. The artist's quarrying continued.
 As a youth, Sehgal was attracted to the study of dance (how people move) and political economy (how society works). His father, now retired, was an I.B.M. manager from India, his mother a German native and homemaker. Sehgal was born in London and raised primarily in Dusseldorf, Paris and a town close to Stuttgart; he has a younger sister, who grew up to become a philosopher specializing in Alfred North Whitehead. Their father talked with them in English, their mother in German. Sehgal speaks fluent English with a faint German inflection.
 When he was an adolescent, Sehgal says, a direct encounter with the political process disenchanted him permanently from parliamentary politics. Friends asked him to speak at a hearing in favor of a transportation initiative in Stuttgart. ''I remember seeing the minister of transportation dive and dodge,'' he says. ''All he could do was administer what the public opinion was, or else he would be voted out in the next election.'' If electoral politics could not produce fundamental change, why bother with it? ''It's much more interesting to change the values,'' he says. ''I was never interested again in parliamentary politics. I became interested in culture.''
 This political awakening strengthened his attraction to dance. Aside from its physical appeal, dance, in his eyes, had the virtue of creating something that disappeared at the moment it was produced. ''My work comes out of my experiment with myself,'' he says. ''As a person in the first world, you're quite heavy as a person in what you use up. Can I actually solve this for myself? Can I have something to do, keep myself interested and not be somebody who is situated outside society, and can I do this without transforming lots of material?'' He moved at age 18 to Berlin, where he studied political economy and dance. After a few years he relocated to Essen, again taking classes in both subjects.
 Through friends in Berlin, he became friendly with the experimental choreographer Xavier Le Roy and later with another avant-garde dance artist, Jerome Bel, who were challenging the preconceptions that audiences brought to dance performances. In 1999, he took a job in Ghent, Belgium, at Les Ballets C. de la B. dance collective. At the same time, he was developing his own work. His first noteworthy piece was called ''Twenty Minutes for the Twentieth Century,'' in which he performed by himself, naked, on a stage decorated with only a work light, calling up signature movements in 20 styles: Nijinsky, Balanchine, Merce Cunningham, Trisha Brown, down to Xavier Le Roy. (Notwithstanding its title, the piece was approximately 55 minutes long.)
 He presented ''Twenty Minutes'' in a festival at the Moderna Museet in Stockholm, where one appreciative spectator was a curator of about the same age, Jens Hoffmann. ''Afterward I told him it was like a museum of dance,'' Hoffmann recalls. ''He said, 'This is exactly what I was trying to do.' '' Sehgal was more of a conceptual artist than a choreographer. ''I always felt closer to Marcel Broodthaers than I did to Martha Graham,'' he says. He loves the intellectual discourse that surrounds contemporary art; it's absent from dance criticism. (He carries these preferences into his private life. His partner, Dorothea von Hantelmann, is an art historian who has written extensively about ''performativity'' in visual art; they have a 2-year-old son, Nalin.) Hoffmann encouraged him to present his work in art venues, not dance theaters. 
 As a curator of the Manifesta biennial art exhibition in Frankfurt in 2003, Hoffmann brought ''Instead of Allowing Some Thing to Rise Up to Your Face Dancing Bruce and Dan and Other Things'' (2000), a piece that Sehgal had devised specifically for a contemporary art museum, the S.M.A.K. in Ghent. As its unwieldy title indicates to those in the know, it is a gloss on pieces of conceptual art of the early '70s by Bruce Nauman and Dan Graham. In those earlier works, the artist or a friend of the artist performs a series of stipulated movements, which are captured on a videotape for display in a gallery or museum. Sehgal selected 16 gestural moments from those videos and asked a performer to stitch them together with slowed-down, unaccented motions. He got the S.M.A.K. to agree to show the work nonstop during museum hours for a week; as one performer's shift was ending, a successor would appear and writhe alongside him for about half a minute, and then the first one would depart. In a blatant way, human beings were filling the role that sculptures occupy in a museum.
 ''When I saw the visitors' reaction, I was clear that this was it,'' Sehgal says. ''Their reactions were so much stronger than I expected. They couldn't believe it was a person. They thought it had to be a robot or a puppet. There was such an expectation that in a museum something must be an object.''
 Once he decided to transform choreographic material into sculpture, Sehgal needed to find a way to keep a piece going continuously. The silent interpreters in the early works perform in a loop, and the only visible connecting hinge occurs at a shift change, when one actor relieves another. That was relatively simple.
 With ''This Is Good'' (2001), the first of his constructed situations, each new arrival of a visitor triggers an activity of limited duration; it is as if the piece were a kinetic sculpture powered by a push button. When someone enters the gallery, a guard begins windmilling his arms and hopping from one leg to the other and then says: ''Tino Sehgal. 'This Is Good.' 2001.'' Calling attention to the usually unnoticed employees in a museum, the piece plays off Sehgal's mission to make people, not objects, the material of his work. But the payoff is limited. Things got more interesting with ''This Is Exchange'' (2003), in which the visitor is enlisted as a co-producer of the piece. At the entrance to the museum, a ticket taker asks the visitor to engage in a conversation about the market economy; after five minutes, if a ticket buyer who agreed to the request is still gamely playing along, she receives a partial refund of the admission fee. For many visitors, especially those who argued that they detested the market economy, it came as an unsettling surprise to receive this reminder that whatever their opinion of it, they were nonetheless immersed in it. Which, of course, was one of Sehgal's aims.
 Although Sehgal sells pieces to private collectors, his work seems to function best in a museum or a gallery, where its subtraction of a material object is made visible by the institutional surroundings that give shape to his void. ''My work definitely needs this framing as art, and the stronger this framing is,'' he says, ''the more works of mine are possible.'' Because the activity in his work is so close to the routines of everyday life, he has found ways to emphasize its artificiality. One signature device is the removal of all emphases in movement; his interpreters proceed in a slow trancelike state. ''The most important thing is you don't see an accent,'' he said at a ''Kiss'' rehearsal I attended. ''In everyday life, basically, in whatever we do there is an accent. Here, there is a continuous flow.''
 Eliminating the object has opened a seemingly limitless number of possibilities for Sehgal. At the C.C.A. Wattis Institute for Contemporary Arts in San Francisco, Jens Hoffmann, who became the director in 2006, has been presenting an ongoing series of Sehgal pieces. Usually visitors to this small contemporary art museum realize fairly soon that they are in the presence of a Sehgal work. But not always. In one piece, a visitor would arrive to find the museum apparently empty of all people. ''Once when a person thought there were no guards around, he started stealing catalogs,'' Hoffmann recalls. ''The guard came up and said: 'Would you please put the books back? This is a piece by Tino Sehgal.' ''
 Is it possible to be both playful and profound? Sehgal is wagering yes. The moral earnestness that underlies his work would be ponderous if unleavened by humor; the games would be just child's sport if they did not illuminate serious matters. The mixture can confuse people. At a meeting that Sehgal, on one of his human-quarrying forays, held last May with the administrators of a Harlem after-school program, he was pressed to explain what he aimed to accomplish in the Guggenheim piece. ''The real deal is what happens there,'' he said. ''The real deal is the conversation.'' For an educator who was trying to wean children from the cycle of poverty, this was palpably an unsatisfactory answer. He asked Sehgal again what was his goal. ''It's a structure to have a conversation about people's values,'' Sehgal said.
 A little later in the discussion, the man returned to his theme. ''So I guess you're saying your ambition is to change perception,'' he said. ''Is that correct?'' And this time, Sehgal took the bait.
 ''That's a very simple way of saying what I'm doing,'' he said. ''For the last two or three hundred years in human society, we have been very focused on the earth. We have been transforming the materials of the earth, and the museum has developed also over the last two or three hundred years as a temple of objects made from the earth. I'm the guy who comes in and says: 'I'm bored with that. I don't think it's that interesting, and it's not sustainable.' Inside this temple of objects, I refocus attention to human relations.''
 This time the man nodded in understanding, with an expression I recognized. He was seeing things from another perspective, as he participated in a conversation within a framework constructed by Tino Sehgal. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tino Sehgal, foreground, with his associates in Central Park, across from the Guggenheim Museum. (MM24-25)
As he does with all of his exhibitions, Tino Sehgal begins a six-week run at the Guggenheim this month with no official opening and no fanfare. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JUSTINE KURLAND) (MM29) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ART DEALERS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (90%) NEW YORK, USA (71%) GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



481 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; CAREER COUCH; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 845 words

HEADLINE: When Stress Flirts With Burnout

BYLINE: By EILENE ZIMMERMAN. 
E-mail: ccouch@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Q.You are a professional who is accustomed to stress, but all the uncertainty and anxiety in the workplace these days is putting you under more pressure than usual. You feel burned out -- are you?
 A. Determine whether you're suffering from burnout by assessing how you feel both mentally and physically, said Debbie Mandel, a stress management expert in Lawrence, N.Y., and author of ''Addicted to Stress.'' 
 Ms. Mandel suggested asking yourself these questions about the signs of burnout: Do you have various aches and pains that come and go? Do you have trouble focusing? Are you very irritable with others and, if so, why? Are you having more conflicts than usual with people at work? Are you fatigued all the time? 
 ''Awareness is key,'' Ms. Mandel said. ''Just knowing this is happening is a start, because then you can work to counteract it.'' 
 Look for physical symptoms, too, because stress can cause problems like insomnia, backaches, headaches and chest pain, said Dr. Lorrie Elliott, associate medical director of the Center for Partnership Medicine, an executive health program at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago.
 Although these symptoms are often stress-related, if they are severe or persistent, you should seek help from a physician to see if there are underlying health problems, Dr. Elliott said.
 Rebecca Weingarten, an executive coach and co-founder of DLC Executive Coaching and Consulting in New York, said her clients were reporting burnout even though they regularly operated under high levels of stress.
 ''These are new stressors, like fear of the unknown, having to manage and motivate employees during very difficult times or keeping productivity up with a reduced work force,'' she said. 
 Q.What steps can you take to prevent burnout?
 A. Start by recognizing that this is a difficult time for American business and that anxiety and uncertainty are now facts of life, said Robert Rosen, a psychologist and chief executive of Healthy Companies International, a management consulting firm in Arlington, Va. 
 Change your expectations from idealistic to realistic, he said: ''Expect life to be tough sometimes but also expect that you are resilient and will bounce back. Focus on the positives in your life -- like family or hobbies -- because it's rare that everything falls apart at once,'' said Dr. Rosen, who is also the author of ''Just Enough Anxiety.''
 Make time for exercise and be conscious of your diet. Good nutrition and exercise help fight depression and lethargy. Block out time for things you enjoy outside of work, like painting, music or time with family, Dr. Elliott said. ''Set aside some time each day -- at least an hour -- where you focus on something relaxing and meaningful to you other than work.'' she said. 
 Q.If it's too late to prevent burnout, can you reverse it?
 A. Yes. Regaining some balance between work and the rest of your life will relieve the stress and accompanying symptoms, said Gayle Lantz, president of the leadership consulting firm WorkMatters in Birmingham, Ala. 
 Try dividing your day into 60- to 90-minute chunks where you are highly focused on a task or project, then leave your desk and take a complete break from work, she said: ''Go for a walk, have a cup of coffee, but leave the space where you are working and totally disengage for 15 minutes.''
 It's crucial to lower the level of stress hormones in your body -- the ones engaged in the ''fight or flight'' response. You can do that by meditating, even for a few minutes. 
 Judith Orloff, a psychiatrist, assistant clinical professor at UCLA and author of ''Emotional Freedom,'' suggested that professionals experiencing stress meditate for several minutes at least twice a day, but especially when feeling overwhelmed. ''Close your eyes, focus on an image you find replenishing, such as a waterfall or a sunset, and breathe deeply,'' she said. ''Focus only on your breathing, nothing else. This calms both your body and mind.'' 
 Connect with peers who have also experienced high levels of stress, Ms. Lantz said. ''Many times what contributes to burnout is what is going on in someone's mind, not in reality,'' she said. 
 Q.It will probably take a while for the economy to turn around and for workplace anxiety to subside. If you're a manager, how can you lead others during this period so they feel less stressed?
 A. Try to have people concentrate on their work, rather than worrying about things like the financial health of the company or who was recently laid off. ''Get people to focus on execution, on getting their job done,'' Dr. Rosen said. You will also need your team's help to reduce your own stress, as you rely more heavily on its work. 
 Make sure to let each person who works for you know that he or she is very valuable and why, Ms. Weingarten said. ''Acknowledge there are negative things happening,'' she said, ''but that you all need to move forward in spite of them, and that when hiring starts again they are the ones you will be thinking about for promotions.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS REED) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WORKPLACE STRESS (90%); BUSINESS COACHING & MENTORING (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (77%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (76%); CONSULTING SERVICES (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); NUTRITION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (72%); NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



482 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK 2010 FORD TAURUS SHO; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: The New Taurus at the Top

BYLINE: By JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
TESTED: 2010 Ford Taurus SHO 
 WHAT IS IT? The fourth generation of the high-performance version of Ford's big family sedan.
 HOW MUCH? $38,595 base; $43,250 as tested, with options including upgraded interior, navigation system, sunroof and performance package. 
 WHAT MAKES IT RUN? A 3.5-liter V-6 with two turbochargers and direct fuel injection (365 horsepower, 350 pound-feet of torque); 6-speed automatic transmission; all-wheel drive. 
 IS IT QUICK? Do you want to reach 60 m.p.h. in 5.2 seconds? In a full-size sedan? Really? 
 IS IT THIRSTY? The federal economy rating is 17 m.p.g. in town, 25 on the highway.
 THE COMPETITION:Chrysler 300C AWD, $40,800. The Pontiac G8 GXP and Chevrolet Impala SS have been discontinued.
 TO benchmark the performance of the new Taurus SHO with the EcoBoost engine, I took it to the nasty Nacimiento-Fergusson Road just south of Big Sur on the California coast. This vile, narrow strip of crumbling asphalt zigzags uphill like an amusement park thrill ride, rising from the cool Pacific Coast over steep mountains and into hot, dusty highlands.
 Not many people travel this road. Not many people even know about it. If you do know it, you probably know to avoid it.
 The automobile companies, however, know this road -- and occasionally, they punish test cars on it. That is how, in 2001, I came here with a group of journalists testing preproduction Ford Thunderbirds. 
 So a return seemed in order. The T-Birds were powered by V-8 engines and this Taurus SHO has a twin-turbo V-6. Ford says it produces power on par with a V-8 while achieving 6-cylinder fuel economy. (The last-generation SHO of 1996-99 had a V-8 developed with Yamaha.)
 The outcome? It is hard to believe the 2002 Thunderbird and the 2010 Taurus SHO were engineered by the same company.
 The all-wheel-drive Taurus SHO devoured the 7.5 miles to the 2,664-foot summit -- a 6.7 percent average grade, as measured by my GPS system. It seemed eager for more, like a frisky puppy (albeit a very large breed). 
 In 2001, the T-Birds in the test fleet arrived at the top steaming and wheezing. Nacimiento-Fergusson so humbled the T-Bird, as I recall, that its public introduction was postponed while engine-cooling problems and other deficiencies were addressed.
 In my more recent test, the Taurus SHO was problem-free despite my best efforts to harass it -- for purely educational purposes, of course. 
 The car has a sledgehammer of an engine; all-wheel drive keeps the SHO glued to the road. Enthusiasts may choose to replace the stock 19-inch wheels and tires with even more grippy 20-inch Goodyear Eagle F1 Supercar tires and spoke wheels, which are part of the $995 performance package upgrade that also includes stiffer steering, different axle ratios and bigger brakes.
 For now, there are few external clues to distinguish the base SHO from the most basic regular Taurus costing $12,600 less. The interior has some Lincolnlike upgrades, but over all I question whether Ford is taking this wolf-in-sheep's clothing thing a little too far. A savvy buyer could simply add the 22-inch wheels to the base car and create a Great Pretender that would look like the SHO but lack the muscle.
 Over all, the new Taurus gets solid marks for styling, finish and handling. Its base V-6 puts out 263 horsepower, which would seem more than adequate for most people. If you feel more is needed to haul around 4,400 pounds of sedan, the SHO's twin-turbo EcoBoost engine should blow away your concerns. Its 365 horsepower compares with 220 for the very first SHO of 1989.
 In back-to-back tests, the base Taurus returned an impressive 28 m.p.g. in spirited highway driving; the SHO version got 25.3 m.p.g. (The leadfoots at Car and Driver magazine managed only 16 m.p.g.)
 If 0-to-60 acceleration drives your purchase decisions, know that Car and Driver got the SHO there in an impressive 5.2 seconds. Yes, the SHO is refined, fun and fast. It lunches on its so-called competition. And I reveled in revisiting the Nacimiento-Fergusson Road with it.
 But if the highly anticipated EcoBoost engine is just a more efficient way to propel a big bodacious American car down the highway faster, do we really want to go down that road again? JERRY GARRETT 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NO HEAVY BREATHING: The latest Taurus SHO gets the twin-turbo EcoBoost V-6 instead of a V-8. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (73%); NAVIGATION SYSTEMS (72%); GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM (72%); MOUNTAINS (71%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (66%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



483 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3223 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley Tries On a New Psyche

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
JAMES P. GORMAN, a 6-foot-2 Australian, recently took up boxing lessons, in keeping with some of the trappings of his Midtown Manhattan office. On one wall, opposite an inspirational poem by Rudyard Kipling (''The Thousandth Man''), hangs a photograph of Elvis Presley sparring with Muhammad Ali. 
 ''I have a lot of respect for Ali,'' says Mr. Gorman.
 As the new chief executive of Morgan Stanley, an investment bank that narrowly escaped the financial smackdown that destroyed many of its competitors, Mr. Gorman may have to get ready for some fisticuffs. 
 He is tasked with overhauling a firm that put a primacy on high-risk trading under his predecessor, John J. Mack, and one that has spent the last several years often riven by factional disputes and internal debates over strategy.
 Under Mr. Mack, Morgan Stanley made errant mortgage bets and commercial property gambles that cost it billions of dollars and almost destroyed it. The firm was saved by a $10 billion bailout from the federal government, since repaid, and by Asian investors who wrested a large stake in the firm in exchange for cash. 
 During Mr. Mack's tenure, from 2005 to the end of last year, the stock price fell 32 percent. And the firm, which will celebrate its 75th anniversary this year, is expected to announce this week the first annual loss in its history.
 ''There is no question there have been rough spots,'' Mr. Gorman said, in his first interview since becoming chief executive on Jan. 1. ''We have had periods of management turmoil, misplaced trading positions. We have invested in real estate at the wrong end of the market. Clearly there were some mistakes made, but you can't be in a complex global bank and not have mistakes.''
 He added that the bank now had ''a sense of clarity about what we want to be'' -- and that it wouldn't be trading with large amounts of its own capital. ''We are a very focused investment bank,'' he said, ''very client-centered.''
 Mr. Gorman, 51, will have to prove that the steadier, more diversified bank he hopes to build -- with less megatrading and more advisory work for clients -- can still take on more aggressive Wall Street titans like Goldman Sachs or JPMorgan Chase, rivals that thus far have navigated the crisis more successfully. 
 Mr. Gorman says that Morgan will eventually begin taking bigger risks and wagering more money to do so, but that it will avoid big, concentrated bets on complex products that few people understand -- and that have the potential to blow up an institution. 
 ''We are still taking risks,'' he says, but ''we will not have the outsize risk positions that will endanger the firm.''
 Still, some analysts remain tentative about Morgan Stanley's prospects in a financial landscape littered with corporate wreckage and dominated by a handful of wily survivors. While the firm's traditional investment banking franchise has emerged strongly from the crisis -- topping JPMorgan and Goldman in some of its businesses -- it has shrunk its fixed-income division and taken piles of money off the table in its broader institutional securities business. 
 Guy Moszkowski, an analyst at Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch, notes that Morgan Stanley has about $17 billion in capital committed to its institutional securities business, compared with his estimate of around $40 billion at Goldman and $33 billion at JPMorgan.
 Over the last few years, ''they seemed to hang back from risk-taking even at times when they could get paid richly,'' Mr. Moszkowski says.
 ''Then they pushed themselves forward when the party was already ending,'' he adds. ''Morgan Stanley lagged again last year. The net result is they zigged when they should have zagged. There is an issue in that they have fallen behind their peers, though I believe they can resolve it.''
 MR. GORMAN'S arrival at Morgan Stanley is, of course, heavily informed by Mr. Mack's track record. Mr. Mack, who is staying on as chairman and will continue to occupy his old office, inspired fierce loyalty among his traders but ultimately drew mixed reviews as a manager.
 Mr. Mack, 65, had spent most of his career at Morgan Stanley and was one of the architects of its 1997 merger with the brokerage firm Dean Witter. The chief executive of Dean Witter, Philip J. Purcell, outmaneuvered Mr. Mack for control of Morgan in the following years. Mr. Mack left in 2001, ushering in an era of pitched battles between Purcell supporters and Mack loyalists who remained.
 After much to-and-fro, Mr. Purcell -- who pushed for less risk-taking at the firm but delivered lackluster financial results -- was forced out in 2005, and Mr. Mack made a triumphant return. And that is where the real debate on his performance begins, especially in light of the outsize losses Morgan Stanley absorbed.
 ''John really did do most of the things that the shareholders and some of the retired employees were hoping he would do,'' says Robert G. Scott, a former senior executive at the firm who was among those who successfully agitated for Mr. Mack's return. ''The C.E.O. is critical, but the people who are executing the strategy in various business units have a tremendous responsibility for the results, and the seeds for that underperformance were sown before John took over.''
 Others, however, have a harsher view.
 ''What's the legacy of John Mack?'' asks William D. Cohan, a former investment banker and the author of ''House of Cards,'' a best seller about the financial crisis. ''He nearly lost the firm by taking big risks. In the Mack era, a dirty little secret is that had they stuck to Purcell, they would not almost have gone out of business in 2008.''
 Mr. Mack acknowledges some regrets about the course of his career -- that he never consummated a proposed merger of Morgan Stanley's asset management business with BlackRock, which has become one of the world's largest money managers, and that he never flushed out more senior managers when he returned in 2005. 
 ''There were things you just didn't know until you asked specific questions,'' he says. ''Certain positions were a lot older than anyone ever told me. When you come into an organization, you need fresh eyes. You don't need anyone who can defend what's been in place in the past.''
 But on his legacy he is clear, he says: he changed the firm for the better.
 Passionate, emotional, intuitive and a former bond trader, Mr. Mack worked hard to restore swagger and confidence to traders and others who believed that Morgan Stanley lost its way under Mr. Purcell. 
 After returning, Mr. Mack boasted of his renewed appetite for risk and pushed the firm into fashionable areas like subprime mortgages, commercial real estate and leveraged lending. To emulate other banks like Goldman, he advocated using the firm's own capital to pursue bigger, hairier trades.
 That strategy worked at first -- 2006 was a record year -- but Morgan Stanley's swashbuckling wasn't backed up by adequate risk controls, a reality embodied by the biggest trading loss in its history and an event that more than any other may mark the Mack era. 
 The loss came at a specialized trading shop housed inside the firm and run by a man named Howie Hubler, then in his mid-30s. Mr. Hubler's 50-person team correctly wagered $1.4 billion that the subprime mortgage market was weak and would become progressively worse, insight that paid off in 2006 and into early 2007. 
 But to protect itself against possible losses on that trade, the team bought contracts that would enable it to profit if the subprime sector stabilized. Those latter bets proved extremely vulnerable, and as the mortgage market imploded -- setting off one of the worst economic crises in American history -- Morgan Stanley was trapped. The firm ended up losing $10 billion on the wagers.
 A person familiar with the trade, who requested anonymity because of contractual obligations that prevent him from speaking about the firm, said the unit was never a rogue operation and that many of Morgan Stanley's leaders were aware of its activities and approved of them, including the group's proposals to wind down the position.
 At the same time, the firm was slammed by losses on direct commercial property investments, like Crescent Real Estate, a $6.5 billion portfolio of urban office properties that it bought at the peak of the boom in 2007. Last November, facing defaults on borrowing tied to the portfolio, Morgan Stanley surrendered it to Barclays Capital. For the first three quarters of 2009, Morgan Stanley booked real estate losses of $2.1 billion. 
 Mr. Mack says the firm took on such risks because everyone else on Wall Street was doing it, too. ''Did I have too much leverage?'' he says. ''Yes. But the whole industry did.'' 
 He says that some of the trading positions were put on the books in the Purcell years and that Morgan Stanley's chief risk officer didn't report directly to him, which prevented crucial information from reaching his office.
 Mr. Mack responded to the trading debacle by ousting his protege, Zoe Cruz, the firm's co-president, who was in charge of the institutional securities group. 
 In an unusual gesture on Wall Street, Mr. Mack has taken some responsibility for his mistakes by forgoing a bonus for the last three years. In Congressional testimony last week, he said he was an advocate of greater regulation because of the threats to the financial system that he saw during the crisis. 
 He also shuttered all but one of Morgan Stanley's proprietary trading desks and ousted some senior executives in its real estate businesses. And, rather than bowing to regulatory demands that he sell the firm, Mr. Mack strengthened Morgan Stanley's balance sheet by selling a chunk of the firm to the Asian investors. That move, as well as taxpayer largess in the form of federal bailout money, kept it from collapsing.
 Yet, for all of this, Mr. Mack arguably made another mistake after the worst of the crisis's initial stages had passed -- by dialing back risk-taking too far. Rivals like Goldman Sachs took advantage of the reduced number of competitors to ring up record trading profits last year, windfalls that Morgan Stanley missed out on.
 ''We were probably too conservative,'' concedes Mr. Mack. ''But we had not built out enough of a platform in sales and trading.'' 
 Waiting in the wings as all of these financial dramas played out was Mr. Gorman, a former lawyer from Melbourne who was one of Mr. Mack's first major hires when he returned to the firm in 2005.
 CEREBRAL, circumspect and analytical, Mr. Gorman's style contrasts with Mr. Mack's brasher, more intuitive approach -- a telling reminder of just how much the financial crisis has traumatized Morgan Stanley and the extent to which the bank's board, and Mr. Mack himself, recognize the need for a calm, risk-conscious hand at the tiller.
 In 1987, after receiving an M.B.A. from Columbia's Graduate School of Business, Mr. Gorman joined the consulting giant McKinsey, where, among other things, he was a member of the financial services practice. In 1999, David H. Komansky, then the chief executive of Merrill Lynch, recruited Mr. Gorman as its marketing chief. Mr. Gorman describes Mr. Komansky -- who, not unlike Mr. Mack, is a larger-than-life figure -- as his first mentor.
 ''He told me: One, stay grounded; two, don't underestimate the importance of personal relationships inside and outside the firm,'' Mr. Gorman says of Mr. Komansky. ''And three, if someone is doing the wrong thing, no matter how big a producer they are, they are out.''
 MR. GORMAN eventually oversaw Merrill's global private client business and made many changes he would later employ at Morgan Stanley -- segmenting the market and focusing on wealthier clients. A former Merrill colleague described him as a quick study and unafraid of internal battles with Mr. Komansky's successor, E. Stanley O'Neal. 
 ''He was not always focused on the political ramifications of something,'' says this person, who requested anonymity because of contractual obligations that prevent him from speaking about Merrill. ''I watched him in a tug of war with O'Neal and not let it go. If he thinks something is right, he is going to dig in. This is a good thing.''
 Friction with Mr. O'Neal primed Mr. Gorman to accept Mr. Mack's invitation in 2005, a call that came partially at the recommendation of Laurence D. Fink, the chief executive of BlackRock. 
 ''He understands how to bring culture to an organization,'' says Mr. Fink. ''He can talk about the high-level strategy and understands the details of the business.''
 At Morgan Stanley, Mr. Gorman led the global wealth management division and tied up a number of loose ends from the Dean Witter merger: replacing 27 of the top 30 managers, removing the 2,000 least productive financial advisers, unifying all of the firm's retail business under one name, streamlining technology systems, overhauling marketing and focusing on wealthier clients.
 Mr. Gorman worked from Morgan Stanley's offices in Purchase, N.Y. Once a week, Mr. Mack, who lives nearby in Rye, would go to the gym and then stop by for an 8:30 a.m. meeting with Mr. Gorman.
 In addition to having valuable face time with Mr. Mack, Mr. Gorman also lavished praise on his boss: in Mr. Mack's office hangs a printed, signed and framed e-mail message from Mr. Gorman, richly complimenting Mr. Mack for his leadership during the financial crisis.
 Such overt gestures haven't given Mr. Gorman the reputation of being a toady. Many around the office describe him as ''nice'' and ''decent.'' Or, as one of his senior colleagues puts it, Mr. Gorman is ''definitely not a slimeball.'' 
 After the trading losses in 2007, Mr. Gorman became co-president. The firm also put him in charge of thinking about long-term strategy with its chief financial officer. During the crisis, Mr. Gorman argued forcefully for a big strategic shift, with an emphasis on cutting complex products and expanding retail brokerage services. 
 To that end, Mr. Gorman pushed Morgan Stanley to pay $2.75 billion last year to acquire a 51 percent stake in Smith Barney, the big brokerage firm owned by Citigroup, another struggling financial behemoth. Morgan Stanley hopes to take full control of Smith Barney by 2014. The takeover gives it about 18,000 financial advisers and one of the biggest wealth management businesses in the world. 
 According to Howard Chen, an analyst at Credit Suisse, history may decide that Morgan Stanley bought Smith Barney ''for a song.'' The deal was certainly transformative. The retail business now makes up 35 percent of Morgan Stanley's total revenue (compared with 57 percent for its traditional institutional business), up from about a quarter share before the deal.
 WHATEVER its long-term merits, the deal did little to reverse Morgan Stanley's sagging fortunes. Around the middle of last year, with the share price lagging, Mr. Mack confirmed previous plans to step down. Mr. Gorman won the race to succeed him, in part because the firm's board, which voted unanimously for him, was impressed by his strategic abilities and work he had done turning around the retail business.
 The board liked that Mr. Gorman wanted to strengthen Morgan Stanley's institutional securities group and reduce risk-taking, says Robert Kidder, a director. 
 ''We concluded that James was decisive, strategic and had knowledge of a range of the firm's activities,'' says Mr. Kidder. ''We believed he was the kind of person who would build a strong and strategic team over time.'' 
 According to another person familiar with the board's thinking, who requested anonymity because the deliberations were confidential, Mr. Gorman's calm demeanor offered a marked and welcome break from Mr. Mack's more volatile temperament.
 Despite his embrace of plain-vanilla retail enterprises, Mr. Gorman says that the firm's core business remains its investment banking and institutional sales and trading -- and that the company's recovery won't be complete until those businesses are nursed back to health. To buttress its risk management capabilities, Morgan Stanley has started what it calls Project Phoenix, which will measure and monitor proper risk-return ratios across the company. 
 Some analysts still have concerns. Institutional Risk Analytics, a research firm, recently gave Morgan Stanley's shares a negative rating ''because of the bank's poor financial performance, low levels of tangible common equity and failure to make any significant disclosure regarding off-balance-sheet exposures.''
 Morgan Stanley says that it has healthy levels of common equity and that it discloses details of its off-balance-sheet exposures. It points out that three other analysts upgraded their ratings of the firm this month.
 Some analysts wonder whether Mr. Gorman has the investment banking and trading chops to rally the bank's core institutional troops, or whether his resemblance to Mr. Purcell -- who also began his career at McKinsey and rose to prominence in retail brokerage -- may be too limiting. 
 ''I no more or less resemble Phil Purcell than any 5,000 people here,'' says Mr. Gorman. ''And a lot of people ran brokerages -- Sandy Weill, Jamie Dimon, David Komansky.''
 The money manager Barton Biggs, who spent 30 years at Morgan Stanley before leaving in 2003 to run his own company, says he thinks the mood at Morgan is upbeat. ''People respect Gorman as being a different person than John,'' he says. ''He is not a mingler. He is not going to walk the trading floor, slapping backs. But he is a first-rate intellect and he impresses with his organization and his thoughtfulness.''
 STANDING in his office recently, Mr. Gorman flips through sheets of corporate contacts he has made since his McKinsey days. He describes the back-to-back breakfasts, coffees and dinners he will be having with hedge fund managers and corporate titans over the next few weeks. 
 ''This is a period of time when you are dealing with a lot of complicated constituencies -- regulators, shareholders, legislators, politicians, the media,'' he says. ''There are a lot of things in flux and you have to feel comfortable dealing with a lot of complexity, which I do.''
 As Mr. Gorman continues to get his stride, he will have Mr. Mack peering over his shoulder as chairman for at least the next two years. Mr. Mack says he's looking forward to spending more time at his Tuscan vineyard and shows off a picture of himself standing beside Cher backstage in Las Vegas, as well as other mementos from a 40-year career. ''I really like my new role,'' he says. ''I didn't come to work until 9:30 today!''
 But some analysts wonder that if things turn sour, will Mr. Gorman find himself isolated in an institution where Mr. Mack's constituency is still powerful?
 ''Listen, this would not work if I wasn't his man,'' says Mr. Gorman. ''We have a terrific relationship.''
 On a recent afternoon, the two men posed in Mr. Gorman's doorway, arms around each other's shoulders, demonstrating their camaraderie. 
 ''We do this every day,'' says Mr. Gorman, joking, while Mr. Mack smiles beside him.
 Mr. Gorman acknowledges, however, that the alternative -- fighting with Mr. Mack -- would be a terrifying prospect.
 ''I would not box John,'' he says. ''He has big shoulders.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: James P. Gorman, the new chief executive of Morgan Stanley, wants to build a steadier, more diversified operation -- but will still have to battle aggressive rivals on Wall Street. (BU1)
James P. Gorman at Morgan Stanley's Midtown Manhattan headquarters. He says he is making the firm more client-centered.
When he was C.E.O., John Mack inspired trader loyalty but ultimately mixed reviews as a manager. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6)
 John Mack, left, in 1997, when he orchestrated the merger with Dean Witter, then led by Philip J. Purcell, right. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JON LEVY/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES) (BU7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BAILOUTS (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (75%); ANNIVERSARIES (65%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (91%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (91%); GS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (91%); JOHN J MACK (79%); MUHAMMAD ALI (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



484 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Bernanke And the Beast

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to President George W. Bush.

 BODY:
IS galloping inflation around the corner? Without doubt, the United States is exhibiting some of the classic precursors to out-of-control inflation. But a deeper look suggests that the story is not so simple.
 Let's start with first principles. One basic lesson of economics is that prices rise when the government creates an excessive amount of money. In other words, inflation occurs when too much money is chasing too few goods. 
 A second lesson is that governments resort to rapid monetary growth because they face fiscal problems. When government spending exceeds tax collection, policy makers sometimes turn to their central banks, which essentially print money to cover the budget shortfall. 
 Those two lessons go a long way toward explaining history's hyperinflations, like those experienced by Germany in the 1920s or by Zimbabwe recently. Is the United States about to go down this route?
 To be sure, we have large budget deficits and ample money growth. The federal government's budget deficit was $390 billion in the first quarter of fiscal 2010, or about 11 percent of gross domestic product. Such a large deficit was unimaginable just a few years ago.
 The Federal Reserve has also been rapidly creating money. The monetary base -- meaning currency plus bank reserves -- is the money-supply measure that the Fed controls most directly. That figure has more than doubled over the last two years.
 Yet, despite having the two classic ingredients for high inflation, the United States has experienced only benign price increases. Over the last year, the core Consumer Price Index, excluding food and energy, has risen by less than 2 percent. And long-term interest rates remain relatively low, suggesting that the bond market isn't terribly worried about inflation. What gives?
 Part of the answer is that while we have large budget deficits and rapid money growth, one isn't causing the other. Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, has been printing money not to finance President Obama's spending but to rescue the financial system and prop up a weak economy. 
 Moreover, banks have been happy to hold much of that new money as excess reserves. In normal times when the Fed expands the monetary base, banks lend that money, and other money-supply measures grow in parallel. But these are not normal times. With banks content holding idle cash, the broad measure called M2 (including currency and deposits in checking and savings accounts) has grown in the last two years at an annual rate of only 6 percent.
 As the economy recovers, banks may start lending out some of their hoards of reserves. That could lead to faster growth in broader money-supply measures and, eventually, to substantial inflation. But the Fed has the tools it needs to prevent that outcome.
 For one, it can sell the large portfolio of mortgage-backed securities and other assets it has accumulated over the last couple of years. When the private purchasers of those assets paid up, they would drain reserves from the banking system.
 And as a result of legislative changes in October 2008, the Fed has a new tool: it can pay interest on reserves. With short-term interest rates currently near zero, this tool has been largely irrelevant. But as the economy recovers and interest rates rise, the Fed can increase the interest rate it pays banks to hold reserves as well. Higher interest on reserves would discourage bank lending and prevent the huge expansion in the monetary base from becoming inflationary.
 But will Mr. Bernanke and his colleagues make enough use of these instruments when needed? Most likely they will, but there are still several reasons for doubt.
 First, a little bit of inflation might not be so bad. Mr. Bernanke and company could decide that letting prices rise and thereby reducing the real cost of borrowing might help stimulate a moribund economy. The trick is getting enough inflation to help the economy recover without losing control of the process. Fine-tuning is hard to do.
 Second, the Fed could easily overestimate the economy's potential growth. In light of the large fiscal imbalance over which Mr. Obama is presiding, it's a good bet he will end up raising taxes for most Americans in coming years. Higher tax rates mean reduced work incentives and lower potential output. If the Fed fails to account for this change, it could try to promote more growth than the economy can sustain, causing inflation to rise.
 Finally, even if the Fed is committed to low inflation and recognizes the challenges ahead, politics could constrain its policy choices. Raising interest rates to deal with impending inflationary pressures is never popular, and after the recent financial crisis, Mr. Bernanke cannot draw on a boundless reservoir of good will. As the economy recovers, responding quickly and fully to inflation threats may prove hard in the face of public opposition.
 Investors snapping up 30-year Treasury bonds paying less than 5 percent are betting that the Fed will keep these inflation risks in check. They are probably right. But because current monetary and fiscal policy is so far outside the bounds of historical norms, it's hard for anyone to be sure. A decade from now, we may look back at today's bond market as the irrational exuberance of this era. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY DAVID G. KLEIN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INFLATION (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MONEY SUPPLY (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); BONDS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); INTEREST RATES (68%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (67%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (64%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (92%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



485 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1221 words

HEADLINE: Election Tests Staying Power Of Democrats

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
There may be no better place to measure the shifting fortunes of President Obama and the Democratic Party than in the race being fought here this weekend for the Senate seat that had been held by Edward M. Kennedy.
 When Mr. Obama was inaugurated one year ago this week, he and his party had big majorities in the Senate and House, enjoyed the backing of much of the country and were confidently preparing to enact an ambitious legislative agenda. Republicans seemed directionless and the conservative movement exhausted.
 This weekend, Democrats are struggling to hang on to a seat held by Mr. Kennedy for 46 years in one of the most enthusiastically Democratic states in the country. Conservatives are enjoying a grass-roots resurgence, and Republicans are talking about taking back the House in November.
 As Mr. Obama prepares to come here on Sunday to campaign for the party's beleaguered Senate candidate, Martha Coakley, Democrats across the country are starting to wonder aloud if they misjudged the electorate over the last year, with profound ramifications for the midterm elections this year and, potentially, for Mr. Obama's presidency. 
 Win or lose in Massachusetts, that a contest between a conservative Republican and a liberal Democrat could appear so close is evidence of what even Democrats say is animosity directed at the administration and Congress. It has been fanned by Republicans who have portrayed Democrats as overreaching and out of touch with ordinary Americans.
 ''It comes from the fact that Obama as president has had to deal with all these major crises he inherited: the banks, fiscal stimulus,'' said Senator Paul G. Kirk Jr., the Democrat who holds the Massachusetts seat on an interim basis pending the special election. ''But for many people it was like, 'Jeez, how much government are we getting here?' That might have given them pause.''
 Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, said the atmosphere was a serious threat to Democrats. ''I do think there's a chance that Congressional elites mistook their mandate,'' Mr. Bayh said. ''I don't think the American people last year voted for higher taxes, higher deficits and a more intrusive government. But there's a perception that that is what they are getting.''
 Ms. Coakley, the state attorney general, could still defeat her Republican opponent, State Senator Scott Brown. Polls show the race as very close, and measuring public opinion in special elections is always difficult. 
 Support for the health care overhaul could grow if it is enacted into law and Americans decide that it has left them better off, as Mr. Obama says will happen. The economy could take a turn for the better by this summer, validating Mr. Obama's policies in time to influence the midterm elections. And for all the national forces at play here, Ms. Coakley has, in the view of most Democrats, made things worse with a slow-starting and low-energy campaign marked by several high-profile errors.
 Still, Mr. Obama's decision to tear up his weekend schedule to come here reflects concern in the White House that a defeat of Ms. Coakley would be seen as a repudiation of the president's first year. It would also raise the question of whether Mr. Obama squandered political capital by focusing so much on health care at a time of rising unemployment.
 ''If it works well, it was a good thing to do for the country here,'' Mr. Bayh said. ''But there's definitely an opportunity cost. You could only spend political capital once; it now can't be spent on other things.''
 The Massachusetts campaign has neatly encapsulated the major themes that have come to deplete Mr. Obama's popularity, themes that have fueled the rise of the Tea Party movement on the right and created an atmosphere where growing numbers of Democrats in conservative-leaning districts and states have decided not to run again.
 Mr. Brown is running directly against the health care plan, and Ms. Coakley is standing by it. Should Mr. Brown win, it would undercut assurances Mr. Obama has been offering nervous Democrats that health care will ultimately lift them at the polls. 
 ''This is Ted Kennedy's state -- why can any Republican be competitive here?'' asked Dick Armey, a former congressman who leads a conservative grass-roots organization that has been active on behalf of Mr. Brown. ''The reason is health care.''
 Of course, Republicans holding statewide office are not unheard of. Though Massachusetts last had a Republican senator in 1979, Republicans held the governor's office from 1991 to 2007. Former Gov. Mitt Romney, a moderate on issues like abortion and gay rights, went on to an unsuccessful bid for the presidency by moving to the right on some issues.
 Mr. Brown has portrayed Ms. Coakley as an advocate of big government, big spending and big deficits; Obama advisers and other Democrats have worried that the expanding deficit, now at a level not seen since World War II, was hurting Mr. Obama with independents who lifted him to victory in 2008. Polls suggest that those voters have flocked to Mr. Brown, as they did to Republican candidates for governor in Virginia and New Jersey last year.
 ''I don't know what else it would take to wake up the Democratic leadership about the unpopularity of their agenda across the country than losing a Senate race in Massachusetts,'' said Senator John Cornyn of Texas, the chairman of the Senate Republican campaign committee.
 Mr. Brown has also portrayed Ms. Coakley -- and by inference, her party -- as acting as if she were entitled to the Kennedy seat, a perception Ms. Coakley reinforced by at first running an extremely lackadaisical campaign. With populist anger running strong, anything that smacks of establishment entitlement is politically dangerous.
 The risks to the White House are both immediate and long-term. A victory by Mr. Brown would mean losing the 60th vote Democrats need to stave off a filibuster in the Senate. 
 ''If he's running against 60 votes and wins, that is not good,'' said Bob Kerrey, a former Democratic senator from Nebraska. 
 But most ominously for Democrats contemplating the midterm elections, the battle here suggests an emerging dangerous dynamic: that Mr. Obama has energized Republican activists who think he has overstepped with health care and the economic stimulus, while demoralizing Democrats who think he has not lived up to his promise.
 ''When Brown avails himself to the Tea Partiers and the Club for Growth members and all of that wing of the party, yes, they have a lot of intensity on their side,'' said Senator Robert Menendez of New Jersey, who leads the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee. But, Mr. Menendez said, Democrats would match that enthusiasm now that the party has made a greater effort to draw distinctions between the two candidates.
 Mr. Obama may have had no less treacherous road to take, given the tangle of political problems and divisions within the Democratic Party that confronted him last year. 
 Still, some Democrats are wondering if Mr. Obama would be in a better position now if he had embraced a less ambitious health care proposal, as some aides urged, permitting him to pivot more quickly on the economy. Depending on what happens Tuesday, that is a debate that might be reverberating in the White House for a long time to come.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: State Senator Scott Brown campaigning on Saturday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL DWYER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
 The Senate candidate Martha Coakley greeting friends and foes Saturday in Gloucester, Mass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); LIBERALISM (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (62%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MARTHA COAKLEY (89%); TED KENNEDY (73%); EVAN BAYH (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



486 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Taking Away Directors' Rubber Stamps

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
IT sounds like good work if you can get it, and thousands of people in corporate America do. On average, they attend 8 to 12 meetings annually. Although they are supposed to have fiduciary obligations, they often appear simply to warm their assigned seats, and to raise their hands when their leader calls for a vote. For that, they can receive as much as $640,000 a year. 
 Who are these people? Company directors, who are typically handpicked from other companies, banks, academia and, in some cases, social directories. 
 But underworked, overpaid corporate boards are doing serious harm to the shareholders of public companies and the economy as a whole, according to ''Money for Nothing: How the Failure of Corporate Boards Is Ruining American Business and Costing Us Trillions'' (Free Press, $27), by John Gillespie and David Zweig.
 In the wake of the global economic debacle, the name of the game for authors of business books is assigning blame. Many recent books have pointed accusatory fingers at the problems of specific firms like Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers and Fannie Mae, and of certain executives.
 But ''Money for Nothing'' casts a much wider net, blaming the financial crisis on a systemic collapse of corporate democracy caused by the failure of many if not most corporate boards to simply do their jobs. ''The boards were supposed to monitor risks, provide judgment and supervise managers on behalf of shareholders,'' Mr. Gillespie and Mr. Zweig write. ''Boards, at the very least, should have acted in the classic sense like a governor on an engine that measures and regulates the machine's speed and, if necessary, turns it down to keep it from blowing up.'' 
 Mr. Gillespie, a former investment banker, worked for Lehman Brothers and Bear Stearns, which collapsed in 2008, and Morgan Stanley, which took a beating that year. Mr. Zweig, a co-founder of Salon.com, worked at Dow Jones and Time Inc., whose parent company's former chief, Gerald M. Levin, recently acknowledged that the merger he engineered with AOL was the worst deal of the decade.
 The authors write in a nonpedantic, readable style, and they don't mince words. They declare that boards ''are prone to give away the shareholders' store'' when approving compensation and perks for corporate management. 
 They devote an entire chapter, ''The Myth of Shareholders' Rights,'' to showing the heavily lopsided power of corporate managements in board elections and proxy votes. And they explain why so many companies incorporate in Delaware, where state laws exempt corporate executives -- and directors -- from financial liability for their actions.
 The authors provide examples that will already be familiar to many readers. But they also offer a valuable new perspective by focusing on the tragicomic miscues of the people who were ostensibly meant to ''govern'' out-of-control managements.
 At Lehman, for example, the board failed to put a brake on an expanding portfolio of commercial real estate and risky securities. Between 2000 and 2007, while the risk committee met just twice a year, the full board approved salary, stock, options and bonuses for the C.E.O., Richard Fuld, totaling $484 million. In a September 2008 conference call, Mr. Fuld followed his announcement that the firm had lost $3.9 billion in the third quarter by declaring, ''I must say the board's been wonderfully supportive.''
 Four days later, Lehman filed for bankruptcy, costing shareholders $45 billion. 
 The authors note that Rick Wagoner, the former General Motors chairman, declared in 2008 that: ''I get good support from the board. We say, 'Here's what we're going to do and here's the time frame,' and they say, 'Let us know how it comes out.' '' (Memo to the board: your shareholders lost $52 billion in equity during Mr. Wagoner's watch.)
 Mr. Gillespie and Mr. Zweig do not believe that the solution to board laxity lies solely in more regulations. They complain that boards tend to be focused more on avoiding legal problems than on ''formulating of company strategy, identifying risks, and evaluating executive performance.''
 THE authors conclude with a list of more than two dozen recommendations for comprehensive reform. These include creating a new class of ''public directors'' appointed to corporations by a special nonprofit organization, reform of voting procedures currently subject to manipulation by management and, simply but perhaps most important, a law prohibiting people from simultaneously holding the positions of chief executive and board chairman. 
 ''No one can reasonably expect a person to oversee himself or herself,'' the authors say. ''The C.E.O. works for the board, not the other way around; the continuation of combined roles inhibits the board in exercising its responsibilities because it creates an insurmountable imbalance of power,'' they write. 
 But no amount or manner of structural change can ensure that directors will step up and take responsibility for their fiduciary duties to shareholders, the authors assert. Boards overwhelmed by the power and glory of corporate chieftains tend to commit sins of omission, like not asking probing questions and not challenging management presentations of ''fact,'' rather than sins of commission like active participation in securities fraud.
 Mr. Gillespie and Mr. Zweig drive this point home with a bit of black humor as they recount their jailhouse interview with L. Dennis Kozlowski, the former Tyco chairman and chief executive who was convicted of grand larceny and securities fraud. Asked to articulate the highest praise he could muster for his former board, Mr. Kozlowski replied, ''They didn't slow me down.'' Talk about money for nothing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); WRITERS (88%); EXECUTIVES (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); BOARD CHANGES (76%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%)

COMPANY: PEOPLE CO LTD (72%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (68%); TIME INC (64%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (55%); MORGAN STANLEY (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); SALON MEDIA GROUP INC (53%); DOW JONES & CO INC (52%)

TICKER: 7865 (JASDAQ) (72%); MS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713940 FITNESS & RECREATIONAL SPORTS CENTERS (72%); SIC7991 PHYSICAL FITNESS FACILITIES (72%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (68%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (68%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (64%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (52%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (52%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



487 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 836 words

HEADLINE: What's Our Sputnik?

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Taipei, Taiwan 

 BODY:
 Dick Cheney says President Obama is ''trying to pretend that we are not at war'' with terrorists. There is only one thing I have to say about that: I sure hope so.
 Frankly, if I had my wish, we would be on our way out of Afghanistan not in, we would be letting Pakistan figure out which Taliban they want to conspire with and which ones they want to fight, we would be letting Israelis and Palestinians figure out on their own how to make peace, we would be taking $100 billion out of the Pentagon budget to make us independent of imported oil -- nothing would make us more secure -- and we would be reducing the reward for killing or capturing Osama bin Laden to exactly what he's worth: 10 cents and an autographed picture of Dick Cheney.
 Am I going isolationist? No, but visiting the greater China region always leaves me envious of the leaders of Hong Kong, Taiwan and China, who surely get to spend more of their time focusing on how to build their nations than my president, whose agenda can be derailed at any moment by a jihadist death cult using exploding underpants. 
 Could we just walk away? No, but we must change our emphasis. The ''war on terrorists'' has to begin by our challenging the people and leaders over there. If they're not ready to take the lead, to speak out and fight the madness in their midst, for the future of their own societies, there is no way we can succeed. We'll exhaust ourselves trying. We'd be better off just building a higher wall.
 As the terrorism expert Bruce Hoffman noted in an essay in The Washington Post: ''In the wake of the global financial crisis, Al Qaeda has stepped up a strategy of economic warfare. 'We will bury you,' Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev promised Americans 50 years ago. Today, Al Qaeda threatens: 'We will bankrupt you.' '' And they will.
 Our presence, our oil dependence, our endless foreign aid in the Middle East have become huge enablers of bad governance there and massive escapes from responsibility and accountability by people who want to blame all their troubles on us. Let's get out of the way and let the moderate majorities there, if they really exist, face their own enemies on their own. It is the only way they will move. We can be the wind at their backs, but we can't be their sails. There is some hope for Iraq and Iran today because their moderates are fighting for themselves.
 Has anyone noticed the most important peace breakthrough on the planet in the last two years? It's right here: the new calm in the Strait of Taiwan. For decades, this was considered the most dangerous place on earth, with Taiwan and China pointing missiles at each other on hair triggers. Well, over the past two years, China and Taiwan have reached a quiet rapprochement -- on their own. No special envoys or shuttling secretaries of state. Yes, our Navy was a critical stabilizer. But they worked it out. They realized their own interdependence. The result: a new web of economic ties, direct flights and student exchanges. 
 A key reason is that Taiwan has no oil, no natural resources. It's a barren rock with 23 million people who, through hard work, have amassed the fourth-largest foreign currency reserves in the world. They got rich digging inside themselves, unlocking their entrepreneurs, not digging for oil. They took responsibility. They got rich by asking: ''How do I improve myself?'' Not by declaring: ''It's all somebody else's fault. Give me a handout.'' 
 When I look at America from here, I worry. China is now our main economic partner and competitor. Sure, China has big problems. Nevertheless, I hope Americans see China's rise as the 21st-century equivalent of Russia launching the Sputnik satellite -- a challenge to which we responded with a huge national effort that revived our education, infrastructure and science and propelled us for 50 years. Unfortunately, the Cheneyites want to make fighting Al Qaeda our Sputnik. Others want us to worry about some loopy remark Senator Harry Reid made about the shade of Obama's skin.
 Well, what is our national project going to be? Racing China, chasing Al Qaeda or parsing Harry? Of course, to a degree, we need to both race China and confront Al Qaeda -- but which will define us?
 ''Our response to Sputnik made us better educated, more productive, more technologically advanced and more ingenious,'' said the Johns Hopkins foreign policy expert Michael Mandelbaum. ''Our investments in science and education spread throughout American society, producing the Internet, more students studying math and people genuinely wanting to build the nation.'' 
 And what does the war on terror give us? Better drones, body scanners and a lot of desultory T.S.A. security jobs at airports. ''Sputnik spurred us to build a highway to the future,'' added Mandelbaum. ''The war on terror is prompting us to build bridges to nowhere.''
 We just keep thinking we can do it all -- be focused, frightened and frivolous. We can't. We don't have the money. We don't have the time. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AL-QAEDA (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (69%); PEACE PROCESS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); DEFENSE SPENDING (55%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (53%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (53%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (53%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (89%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (79%) TAIWAN (93%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); CHINA (92%); HONG KONG (79%); IRAQ (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



488 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; MAGAZINE PREVIEW; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 8980 words

HEADLINE: Obama's War Over Terror

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER. 
Peter Baker is a White House correspondent for The Times and a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
The evening before he was sworn into office, Barack Obama stepped out of Blair House, the government residence where he was staying across from the White House, and climbed into an armored limousine for the ride to a bipartisan dinner. Joining him in the back seat were John Brennan, his new counterterrorism adviser, and two foreign-policy advisers, Denis McDonough and Mark Lippert. The three men with the president-elect were out of breath, having rushed more than a mile from transition headquarters on foot after failing to find a taxi in Washington's preinaugural madness. As the motorcade moved out, they updated Obama on gathering evidence of a major terrorist plot to attack his inauguration. After a weekend of round-the-clock analysis, the nation's intelligence agencies were concerned that the threat was real, the men told him. A group of Somali extremists was reported to be coming across the border from Canada to detonate explosives as the new president took the oath of office. With more than a million onlookers viewing the ceremony from the National Mall and hundreds of millions more watching on television around the world, what could be a more devastating target? 
 ''All the data points suggested there was a real threat evolving quickly that had an overseas component,'' Juan Carlos Zarate, President George W. Bush's deputy national security adviser for combating terrorism, told me last fall. As the inauguration approached, signs of a plot ''seemed to be growing in credibility and relevance.'' Another senior Bush official involved in those tense events a year ago said that protecting the new president was not enough. Even a failed attack would send a debilitating message to the world. ''If something happens on the podium and there's chaos,'' this official told me, ''that's the first time you see the new president, and you really don't want that.''
 The threat seemed to weigh on Obama. He canceled a practice session to go over his inaugural address with aides at Blair House. David Axelrod, his senior adviser, later interpreted that as a sign that Obama was thinking about the suspected plot. ''He seemed more subdued than he had been,'' Axelrod told me not long ago. Obama had not yet taken office, and he was already being confronted with the threat that consumed his predecessor's presidency. No matter how much he thought about terrorism as a senator or as a presidential candidate, it was another thing to face it as the person responsible for the nation's security -- and quite another thing again to know the threat was aimed directly at himself, his wife and their two daughters. ''It's not as if you don't know what you're getting into,'' Axelrod said. ''But when the reality comes and the baton is being passed and you're now dealing with real terrorism threats, it's a very sobering moment.''
 There was little Obama could do but ask questions and rely on the people who had been fighting this fight for years. His advisers worked side by side with the outgoing administration. The two teams gathered in the Situation Room of the White House shortly before the inauguration to sift through what was known and to hash out what should be done about it. The final iteration of Bush's team sat across the table from the brain trust of Obama's administration -- Condoleezza Rice, Stephen Hadley and their colleagues on one side, Hillary Rodham Clinton, James Jones and their colleagues on the other. 
 Clinton immediately put her finger on a problem. According to participants, she asked, What should Obama do if he is in the middle of his inaugural address and a bomb goes off somewhere on the mall? ''Is the Secret Service going to whisk him off the podium so the American people see their incoming president disappear in the middle of the inaugural address?'' she asked. ''I don't think so.''
 Among those in the room was Robert Gates, who served two years as Bush's defense secretary and would remain in that post under Obama. Gates would eventually stay away from the inauguration in a secret location. With no other member of Obama's cabinet confirmed by the Senate, Gates -- an incumbent cabinet officer who also had the imprimatur of the newly elected commander in chief -- was the most logical person in the line of succession to take over the presidency should the worst happen.
 At the heart of the deliberations about what to do was John Brennan, a former C.I.A. officer. A Middle East specialist known for setting up the National Counterterrorism Center for Bush, Brennan was coming back after three years out of government as the top counterterrorism official in the White House. He had wanted to be C.I.A. director but found his potential appointment sunk by liberal protests over his ties to the old order, so instead he was made assistant to the president for homeland security and counterterrorism, a position that did not require Senate confirmation.
 As he helped manage the inaugural threat, culling reports and coordinating between two administrations, Brennan was already becoming the most important voice in the ear of the new president as he moved to reshape the nation's struggle with terrorists. If it is now Obama's war, Brennan is his general. And the first battle set the tone. ''It was a poignant reminder of the seriousness of the issue the president would be facing, on the eve of the inauguration,'' Brennan told me in November. 
 Brennan suspected that the threat was a classic ''poison pen,'' when one group of radicals rats out another group to get Americans to take out its rivals, and he was right. In this case, officials familiar with the situation said, some Somali extremists knew that a rival group was traveling to the United States and planted false information about its intentions that got back to the Americans. In the end, what for 72 hours looked like a credible threat turned out to be a false alarm.
 For a fledgling president, the incident would be a lesson in the fluid, murky nature of terrorism. The challenge of leading the struggle against violent extremists is more than just hunting down bad guys; it's distinguishing between what's real and what's not, tracking down where threats begin, figuring out the right response and finding a balance between acknowledging danger and projecting confidence. The Obama administration spent its first year in office trying to find its balance. 
 BARACK OBAMA WAS inaugurated as the first president to take office in the Age of Terrorism. He inherited two struggles -- one with Al Qaeda and its ideological allies, and another that divides his own country over issues like torture, prosecutions, security and what it means to be an American. The first has proved to be complicated and daunting. The second makes the first look easy.
 The attempted bombing of a Northwest Airlines passenger jet on Christmas Day heightened a debate that has percolated over the past 12 months. Obama's approach has been either a dangerous reversal of the Bush years or a consolidation of the Bush years, depending on who is talking. In fact, the new president, during his first year, has adopted the bulk of the counterterrorism strategy he found on his desk when he arrived in the Oval Office, a strategy already moderated from the earliest days after Sept. 11, 2001. He did, however, shave back some of the harsher edges of the remaining Bush policies and in the process of his recalibrations drew simultaneous fire from former Vice President Dick Cheney and the American Civil Liberties Union.
 Obama, then, found himself in a place where he seems most comfortable, splitting the difference on a tough issue and presenting it as the course of reasoned judgment rather than of dogmatic ideology. Where Bush saw black and white, Obama sees gray. Where Bush favored swagger, Obama is searching for a more supple blend of force and intellect. Where Bush saw Islamic extremism as an existential threat equivalent to Nazism or Communism, Obama contends that that view warps the situation out of proportion and plays into terrorists' hands by elevating their stature and allowing them -- even without attacking again -- to alter the nature of American society. 
 With joblessness still plaguing the economy and health care dominating his agenda, Obama has not wanted his presidency to be defined by the war on terror, as Bush's was. He has given relatively few public speeches on the topic and declined to discuss it for this article. Rather than seeing terrorism as the challenge of our time, Obama rejects the phrase ''war on terror'' altogether, hoping to recast the struggle as only one of a number of vital challenges confronting America. The nation is at war with Al Qaeda, Obama says, but not with terrorism, which, as he understands it, is a tactic, not an enemy.
 ''There was a tendency on the part of some to view the world through that prism -- you know, are you with us or against us, black and white, this global war on terror,'' Brennan told me a couple of months ago in his windowless, low-ceilinged, soundproof office in the West Wing, where mobile phones are banned. ''It was almost all-consuming. It was the driving force for our foreign policies, that we were now engaged in this march on the global war on terror.'' That attitude, Brennan went on to say, proved counterproductive. ''This president recognizes that there's still a very serious terrorist threat that we face from organizations like Al Qaeda,'' he said. ''But at the same time, what we have to do is make sure that we're not pouring fuel on the flames by the things that we do.''
 And so perhaps the biggest change Obama has made is what one former adviser calls the ''mood music'' -- choice of language, outreach to Muslims, rhetorical fidelity to the rule of law and a shift in tone from the all-or-nothing days of the Bush administration. He is committed to taking aggressive actions to disrupt terrorist cells, aides said, but he also considers his speech in Cairo to the Islamic world in June central to his efforts to combat terrorism. ''If you asked him what are the most important things he's done to fight terrorism in his first year, he would put Cairo in the top three,'' Rahm Emanuel, his chief of staff, told me.
 The policies themselves, though, have not changed nearly as much as the political battles over closing the prison at Guantanamo Bay and trying Khalid Shaikh Mohammed in New York would suggest. ''The administration came in determined to undo a lot of the policies of the prior administration,'' Senator Susan Collins of Maine, the top Republican on the homeland-security committee, told me, ''but in fact is finding that many of those policies were better-thought-out than they realized -- or that doing away with them is a far more complex task.''
 If terrorism has not been the driving force of the Obama presidency, neither has it been the catalytic issue to the American people that it was more than eight years ago, when the twin towers collapsed in a heap of steel, concrete and bodies. Yet that mood can change in a hurry, as the Christmas Day plot showed. Obama understands that, if only by the law of averages, there is a decent chance of a successful major attack on the United States during his presidency. And if that attack happens, any change in policy, no matter how incidental to the facts of the case, will be fodder for critics to blame him for the attack. When the aviation screening and intelligence systems that Bush built failed to stop Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab, a 23-year-old Nigerian with ties to Al Qaeda's branch in Yemen, from getting on a plane bound for Detroit with explosives in his underwear last month, a number of Obama's political opponents blamed the sitting president. If Bush's system was broken, they asked, why didn't Obama fix it?
 But the underlying complaint seemed less about any particular policy than about Obama himself -- how he reacted, how he spoke, how he led. Although he held conference calls every day with Brennan, who was back in Washington, it took Obama three days to emerge from his Hawaiian vacation to address the matter in public, and when he did, he was typically cool and cerebral, with none of Bush's bring-it-on, dead-or-alive rhetoric. Never mind that Bush took six days to publicly address the 2001 case of Richard Reid, the shoe bomber, or that Reid was charged in civilian court, not as an enemy combatant; critics like Cheney argued again that Obama did not believe America was at war. Bush felt it in his gut. Obama thinks about it in his head. If he rushed out in public to talk the minute something happened, wouldn't that play into the hands of those trying to instill fear in the American people? Shouldn't he prudently wait for more information? Yet with the country afraid, is it possible to overthink it?
 ''You've got almost two extremes,'' Henry Crumpton, who led the C.I.A.'s operation in Afghanistan after Sept. 11 and who later served as counterterrorism chief at the State Department under Bush, told me several weeks before the Christmas Day attempt. ''You've got Bush 43, who aspired to have a warrior's ethos. He was driven, I think, by that, and in some ways it hurt us with the lack of rigor and examination of some of the consequences of our actions, Iraq being the most horrible extreme. Obama comes at it from the other extreme. He comes at it like a lawyer would, someone who may not accept and may even reject this idea of a warrior's ethos. And it is a war. You've got guys out there who want to kill us.''
 OBAMA WAS A STATE senator in Illinois when the planes smashed into the World Trade Center, the Pentagon and an empty field in Pennsylvania. He was driving to a legislative hearing in Chicago when he heard early reports on the radio. ''By the time I arrived at my meeting,'' he wrote in his book ''The Audacity of Hope,'' ''the second plane had already hit, and we were told to evacuate the State of Illinois Building. Up and down the streets, people gathered, staring at the sky and at the Sears Tower. Later, in my law office, a group of us sat motionless as the nightmare images unfolded across the TV screen.''
 That day instilled in Bush a sense of unwavering purpose, but Obama's support for the pursuit of Al Qaeda in Afghanistan gave way to doubts about the circumvention of legal structures at home and eventually outright opposition to the war in Iraq begun in the name of Sept. 11. As a Harvard Law School graduate who taught constitutional law and spent part of his childhood in Indonesia, the world's most populous Muslim nation, Obama saw the emerging global struggle through a different lens.
 In the spring of 2007, when he was a presidential candidate, Obama met Richard Clarke, the former White House counterterrorism chief who had become one of Bush's sharpest critics on terrorism and national security. The two got together in a run-down apartment a few blocks from the Capitol that Obama used for inconspicuous meetings. ''When I first sat down with him and started going through my standard pitch, he was finishing the sentences,'' Clarke told me. ''I'd like to think it was because he read my book, but it's a heck of a lot more involved than my book. He'd talked with a lot of people. He'd read a lot about it. And he had a real understanding.''
 Clarke became his campaign counterterrorism adviser, and Obama decided to give a speech outlining his view of how to combat extremists and how not to. His advisers told him he had a choice: he could try to out-Cheney Cheney and demonstrate that when it comes to national security, Democrats also have hairy chests, as one put it, or he could develop a new paradigm. Obama, typically, found the idea of a new paradigm more appealing, although he threw in a vow to strike terrorists in Pakistan even, if necessary, without permission of its government.
 ''It is time to turn the page,'' he declared in the speech he gave in Washington in August 2007. He said that ''America is at war with terrorists who killed on our soil; we are not at war with Islam.'' He criticized claims of ''unchecked presidential power'' and vowed ''to close Guantanamo, reject the Military Commissions Act and adhere to the Geneva Conventions.'' He said ''that means no more illegal wiretapping of American citizens, no more national-security letters to spy on citizens who are not suspected of a crime'' and ''no more ignoring the law when it is inconvenient.''
 By the time he won the presidency more than a year later, he was receiving classified briefings on terrorist networks around the world. The government's top intelligence officials beat a path to Chicago to fill him in. They confronted him with the dark side, as Cheney once put it. ''The risks we are talking about are the things you don't want to talk about around the Thanksgiving table,'' Janet Napolitano, the secretary of homeland security, told me.
 Yet even some of the Bush appointees were ready for change, appealing to Obama to revamp the struggle. ''Mr. President-elect, we're doing things very well, but we're losing the messaging war,'' Michael Leiter, the director of the National Counterterrorism Center, told him a week after the election, according to an official informed about the session. A significant share of the global population thought America was at war against the rest of the world, Leiter maintained. ''You have an opportunity to change that message, to change how the struggle is perceived,'' he said.
 Obama was receptive to that mandate. ''We're going to do that,'' he replied.
 When Obama sat down to talk with the outgoing president, Bush pressed him to be vigilant every day. ''That's mostly what they talked about,'' a senior Bush adviser told me. ''I think President Bush came away thinking that President Obama understood at an intellectual level, but you don't really understand at a gut level until you're in that seat.''
 Martha Joynt Kumar, a professor at Towson University who wrote about the inaugural threat in a paper published last month in the journal Presidential Studies Quarterly, said the teamwork between old and new administrations marked one of the smoothest presidential transitions in modern times. Yet for all the cooperation, Obama chose to make one of his first acts a strike against the Bush legacy, signing executive orders drafted by his new White House counsel, Greg Craig, that banned interrogation techniques like waterboarding as torture and ordered the prison at Guantanamo closed within a year. The move generated debate about timing and tactics. John Podesta, who ran Obama's transition, agreed with the policy but argued against making Guantanamo the first priority right after inauguration, according to colleagues. Craig and others countered that it was important to send a signal of change from the start.
 Obama also wanted to uproot the resentments and hatred that fuel extremism. ''The language we use matters,'' he told the Al Arabiya television network a week after taking office. So Obama informally banished the rhetoric of the last administration. ''War on terror'' was out; so were ''Islamofascism'' and ''evildoers.'' The new language did not always go over well. While testifying to Congress a year ago, Napolitano used the phrase ''man-caused disasters,'' and though she said ''terrorism'' elsewhere in her remarks, she drew wide scorn. (''I was totally misinterpreted in a sense of what I was trying to communicate,'' she later told me. ''It was just a mistake. In the editing process, that phrase, usually it's 'terrorism or other man-caused disasters.' '')
 BRENNAN, WHO HAS emerged in recent days as the administration's public face for counterterrorism policy, is solidly built, with a weathered face and close-cropped, retreating hair. His eyes seem to take your measure when you walk into the room, studying intently as if searching for your ulterior motives. He is friendly and unfailingly polite but does not laugh easily. He is a serious man in a serious business, a career man, a survivor, someone who has navigated the treacherous politics of the intelligence world and vaulted to great heights only to be disappointed. And now he is helping Obama redirect the war against Al Qaeda. 
 A native of North Bergen, N.J., Brennan, who is 54, attended Catholic schools, all the way through Fordham University. After his freshman year, he went to Indonesia in the summer of 1974 to visit a cousin who was working there, and in the same country that helped shape Obama's worldview, Brennan developed a case of youthful wanderlust. He studied Arabic and played basketball with Egyptians at the American University in Cairo before earning a master's degree in Middle East studies at the University of Texas at Austin. While reading The New York Times on a bus one day, he saw a C.I.A. recruitment ad and decided to apply. When I asked why, he gave an answer that sounded as if it came from an espionage novel. ''Nathan Hale was hanged on the day of my birth,'' he said of the nation's first spy.
 At the C.I.A., Brennan rose through the ranks, becoming station chief in Saudi Arabia during the late 1990s, a time of rising Islamic terrorism. Just months before he arrived in Riyadh, terrorists blew up the Khobar Towers apartment complex, killing 19 American service members. During his tour, they also attacked American embassies in Tanzania and Kenya. A favorite of George J. Tenet, the C.I.A. director first appointed by President Bill Clinton and later retained by Bush, Brennan would become Tenet's chief of staff and later the agency's deputy executive director. 
 After Sept. 11, Brennan helped set up the Terrorist Threat Integration Center and served as its first and only director. But his steady rise reached a peak. When the center was refashioned as the National Counterterrorism Center, bringing together experts across the government to coordinate the war on terror, he served as interim director but was never given the permanent job. Brennan, unhappy, left government in 2005 and went on to write a proposed op-ed essay that he titled, ''Mr. President, You're Wrong on Iraq.'' In keeping with C.I.A. rules, he submitted it for classification review by the agency before distributing it to any newspapers for publication. A copy found its way to the White House, where it angered top officials. Brennan ultimately thought better of the article and withdrew it from C.I.A. review, but it was too late to salvage his standing at the White House. ''He was dead to them,'' says a friend and fellow senior official, who did not want to be named discussing internal matters. An attempt to later make him deputy director of national intelligence was killed by the White House. Obama presented another chance. ''This is redemption,'' the friend says.
 Anthony Lake, a former national security adviser who knew Brennan from his days as a C.I.A. briefer in the Clinton White House, was working for Obama's nascent presidential campaign and brought in the former intelligence officer to advise the candidate in 2007. Obama grew to like Brennan's precise, matter-of-fact style so much that after the election he considered making him the C.I.A. director. But the idea of appointing Tenet's right-hand man, a C.I.A. careerist who was at the center of the Bush war on terror, rankled Obama supporters on the left. 
 Stephen Soldz, a psychologist at the Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis and a leader of the Coalition for an Ethical Psychology, circulated a letter of opposition to Brennan signed by 200 other psychologists. The letter cited an interview Brennan gave in 2006 to PBS's ''Frontline,'' in which he said Tenet's concern in devising the Bush-era interrogation program was making sure it was on sound legal footing. ''We know, of course, that 'the appropriate Department of Justice review' means that torture was authorized and conducted by our government,'' Soldz's letter said. 
 But the letter did not quote the rest of what Brennan said in that interview as he grappled with the morality of the government's actions. ''There was a real debate within the agency, including today, about what are the minimum standards that you want to stoop to and beyond where you're not going to go, because we don't want to stoop to using the same types of standards that terrorists use,'' he told PBS. ''We are in this business, whether it be intelligence or the government, to protect freedom, democracy and liberty, not to violate that.''
 Still, human rights advocates have a point about continuity. For all his talk of change, Obama has kept a lot of veterans of the Bush administration in place. Besides Brennan, there is Gates still atop the Pentagon, as well as Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff appointed by Bush, and Michael Vickers, still the assistant defense secretary for special operations. While Obama tapped Leon Panetta to take over the C.I.A., he kept the deputy director, Stephen Kappes, along with Leiter, the head of the National Counterterrorism Center. Obama fired the top general in Afghanistan, but the head of the regional military command overseeing both Afghanistan and Iraq remains Bush's favorite officer, Gen. David Petraeus, and the White House coordinator for Afghanistan and Pakistan is Bush's Iraq war czar, Lt. Gen. Douglas Lute. To manage the effort to close Guantanamo, Obama named one of Bush's assistant secretaries of state, Daniel Fried. The Treasury under secretary chasing terrorist financing is still Stuart Levey, and the National Security Council's senior director for combating terrorism is still Nick Rasmussen.
 Most of those people, of course, were in the moderate camp inside the Bush administration, not the Cheney cadre, or like Brennan they present themselves as simply career professionals who followed orders or who even quietly dissented from the most extreme policies of the last eight years. ''I was somebody who did oppose waterboarding,'' Brennan told me. ''I opposed different aspects of the enhanced interrogation program. But there were some aspects of it that I concurred with.'' For instance, he offered, ''if you grab somebody by the lapels, and you say, Oh, my goodness, you've violated their rights as a person, well, I'm not going to go that far.''
 Time and circumstances have changed as well. ''Four years ago, I would have said -- and I did say -- the agency's detention program needed to continue,'' Brennan said, referring to the secret ''black site'' overseas prisons run by the C.I.A. ''There have been a lot of developments and changes, so the things I might have advocated three or four years ago, because of the changed conditions, because of a new administration, whatever, I wouldn't necessarily advocate them now at all. I've changed my views.''
 Soldz told me he has been pleased that Brennan has said the right things since taking the White House job. But Obama's refusal to completely repudiate the Bush-era policies bothers Soldz. ''I wake up some mornings disgusted by Obama,'' he said. ''And then I think about it some more and understand the pressure he's under. So I'm having these battles inside myself.''
 SEVERAL WEEKS AFTER Obama took office, I sat down with the president, along with three colleagues from The Times, in his conference room on Air Force One during a flight back from an event in Ohio. Now that he was in office, we asked what, if anything, he had come to believe that Bush had gotten right in the balance between security and civil liberties. 
 The candidate who denounced the ''color-coded politics of fear'' and rejected policies that ''compromised our most precious values'' was now a commander in chief wrestling with how to protect those values and the country at the same time. He told us that many of the worst practices he had objected to had already been corrected by the end of Bush's presidency. 
 ''I would distinguish between some of the steps that were taken immediately after 9/11 and where we were by the time I took office,'' he told us. ''I think the C.I.A., for example, and some of the controversial programs that have been a focus of a lot of attention, took steps to correct certain policies and procedures after those first couple of years.''
 The battle with terrorists evolved significantly over the course of the Bush presidency, and when Obama took office, the course he set was mostly to accelerate the evolution that was already under way. Under pressure from Supreme Court rulings, Congressional legislation and disclosures in the news media, Bush in his second term trimmed back some of his most expansive programs and claims to executive power. Two years before leaving office, he told advisers he wanted to use his remaining time to institutionalize what was left so that his successor, even a Democrat, would not feel compelled to reverse direction.
 By the time Obama was inaugurated, waterboarding had been halted for years, Bush had ordered that the secret C.I.A. black site prisons be emptied, and the warrantless surveillance program and the military commission system had been restructured and approved by Congress. Bush had even declared that he wanted to close the Guantanamo prison, and although he never managed to do so, his team released or transferred about 500 detainees as a first step.
 Obama built on those actions. ''We've benefited from their experiences, both the good and the bad,'' Emanuel told me. While setting a one-year deadline to close Guantanamo and formally banning the interrogation methods that had already fallen out of favor, Obama left the surveillance program intact, embraced the Patriot Act, retained the authority to use renditions and embraced some of Bush's claims to state secrets. He preserved the military commissions and national security letters he criticized during the campaign, albeit with more due-process safeguards. He plans to hold dozens of suspected terrorists without charges indefinitely. And he expanded Bush's campaign of unmanned drone strikes against Al Qaeda in the tribal areas of Pakistan. Troop levels in Afghanistan are set to triple on his watch. 
 A half-dozen former senior Bush officials involved in counterterrorism told me before the Christmas Day incident that for the most part,they were comfortable with Obama's policies, although they were reluctant to say so on the record. Some worried they would draw the ire of Cheney's circle if they did, while others calculated that calling attention to the similarities to Bush would only make it harder for Obama to stay the course. And they generally resented Obama's anti-Bush rhetoric and were unwilling to give him political cover by defending him.
 Michael Hayden, the last C.I.A. director under Bush, was willing to say publicly what others would not. ''There is a continuum from the Bush administration, particularly as it changed in the second administration as circumstances changed, and the Obama administration,'' Hayden told me. James Jay Carafano, a homeland-security expert at the Heritage Foundation, was blunter. ''I don't think it's even fair to call it Bush Lite,'' he said. ''It's Bush. It's really, really hard to find a difference that's meaningful and not atmospheric. You see a lot of straining on things trying to make things look repackaged, but they're really not that different.''
 Not every Bush veteran agrees, of course. Marc Thiessen, a former White House speechwriter, has a new book called ''Courting Disaster: How the C.I.A. Kept America Safe and How Barack Obama Is Inviting the Next Attack.'' Tom Ridge, the former homeland security secretary, told me before the Christmas Day plot that under Obama, Washington had ''lost a certain sense of urgency and commitment to combating terrorism.'' Most disturbing to the Bush camp, even to those who generally see continuity in Obama's policies, have been Attorney General Eric Holder's decisions to release legal memos that described interrogation techniques used by the C.I.A., to reinvestigate allegations of interrogation abuse by C.I.A. officers and to take Khalid Shaikh Mohammed, the self-declared mastermind of the Sept. 11 attacks, to New York to face trial in civilian court. Hayden recalled warning Jim Jones, Obama's national security adviser, last spring not to alienate the C.I.A. by dredging up the past. ''You're about to spend the next 46 months without a clandestine service,'' Hayden recalled saying. ''If these guys don't think you have their back, they're not going to be very adventurous.''
 There is ample historical precedent for this cycle. During times of national crisis, Washington often claims more authority, sometimes to the point of excess, then slowly cedes it back, from the Sedition Act signed by John Adams to Abraham Lincoln's suspension of habeas corpus during the Civil War to Franklin D. Roosevelt's internment of Japanese-Americans during World War II -- all cases in which the system eventually corrected itself in one fashion or another. ''Historically the more we move away from a crisis, the better we're able to see the costs and benefits of what we're doing, and we go from being extremely risk-averse to finding a better balance,'' says Geoffrey Stone, a professor and former dean at the University of Chicago law school.
 Bush has pointed to another historical pattern. In private discussions with associates during the 2008 presidential campaign, he predicted that if a Democrat won, he or she would be like Dwight Eisenhower to his Harry Truman. Just as Eisenhower on the campaign trail criticized Truman's policies in the early years of the cold war only to essentially adopt them after taking office, Bush anticipated that his successor would preserve most of what he had put in place. Of course, this conveniently fits into Bush's hope that, like Truman, he will look better in the eyes of history. A senior Obama adviser scoffed at the idea that Bush advisers see continuity, arguing that they are trying to launder their reputations by claiming validation. But it is true that much of the Bush security architecture is almost certain to remain part of the national fabric for some time to come, thanks to Obama. 
 Stone, who helped bring Obama to the University of Chicago law school, says his former colleague must be wary of doing anything that would increase the risk of a terrorist attack against the United States. ''He may feel in fact,'' Stone says, ''that it's a more dangerous world than he thought it was, that some of these measures may be more necessary than he thought.'' 
 STONE JOINED A GROUP of human-rights and civil-liberties advocates at the White House last spring for a meeting with Obama to talk about issues of interrogation and detention. Obama had struggled through a rocky few months trying to find the balance between security and liberty, arguing that America did not need to sacrifice one for the other.
 The decision to close the Guantanamo prison sparked a revolt in Congress, even among Democrats who worried about suspected terrorists being transferred to prisons in their states. And while the administration has selected an Illinois facility to house some of the detainees, the Jan. 22 deadline to close Guantanamo will not be met. An attempt to release into the United States 17 Chinese Uighurs who were deemed no threat to Americans collapsed. And although Obama authorized the release of memos detailing the use of waterboarding and other techniques now banned, he refused to release photographs showing abuse of detainees. 
 For Brennan, these issues were a chance to get right what he thought went wrong under Bush. But he has found himself at odds with other advisers at times. When Craig and Holder wanted to release the memos about C.I.A. interrogation methods, Brennan initially agreed, reasoning that the tactics in the memos had by then been banned. But he later reversed himself and sided with the C.I.A., which argued that the memos would give terrorists too much information about how American interrogators work. Brennan likewise stood with Gates and military leaders who argued unsuccessfully that releasing photographs of the abuses would inflame radicals and endanger American troops. Gen. Ray Odierno, the top commander in Iraq, made a personal appeal to Obama during a visit to Washington, and the president agreed to reject Craig's recommendation to release the photos. Brennan also found an ally at times in Rahm Emanuel, who was said to think that the politics of these decisions were being mishandled and that fights over detention policy used up political capital better spent on priorities like health care and the economy.
 By the time he sat down with the human rights advocates in the Cabinet Room, Obama was preparing to make a speech at the National Archives about such issues. Everyone in the room raised hard questions, voicing the disappointment of Obama's strongest supporters. Perhaps the most dramatic appeal came from Anthony Romero, executive director of the A.C.L.U. ''Look, you're the only politician I've ever believed in,'' Romero said, according to people in the room. ''When I was a gay Puerto Rican growing up in New York, I never thought I could identify with a political leader the way I identify with you. But this stuff really pains me.''
 Obama pushed back, explaining the constraints he was under. It was a balancing act, he said; he had multiple obligations. Much of the discussion concerned the military commissions he decided to keep and the dilemma of what to do with the hardest cases at Guantanamo, those who could not be prosecuted because of tainted evidence or other reasons but were deemed too dangerous to release. ''He wasn't entirely comfortable with any of the options,'' says Tom Malinowski, the Washington advocacy director of Human Rights Watch. 
 When I talked with Romero later, he would not describe his interaction with Obama, but he expressed his frustration. While relieved that the new president seems more open to rethinking Bush-era policies, Romero said he suspected Obama suffers from the ''hubris'' of wanting to preserve much of the power he inherited in the belief that he will use it more wisely. ''He believes he can do it better and smarter and more in keeping with constitutional principles than his predecessor did,'' Romero told me. ''If he's shown himself willing to adhere to some of the Bush policies in the absence of an attack, one worries about what he'll do when an attack comes.'' 
 The activists left the meeting chilled that Obama seemed poised to continue holding some terrorism suspects indefinitely without charges. Just a few years earlier, he wrote in his book that ''when we detain suspects indefinitely without trial,'' then ''we weaken our ability to pressure for human rights and the rule of law in despotic regimes.'' Now he was talking about seeking legislation that would permanently authorize such preventive detention. Romero and the A.C.L.U. began preparing a campaign against any proposed legislation if he went forward, soliciting letters from international figures like Desmond Tutu, trying to recruit Jimmy Carter and contacting law-school academics. But then the administration reversed course; while it would continue to hold indefinitely without charges perhaps 50 detainees left from the Bush era, it would not enshrine the power in law and signaled that it would not use it for future cases. ''We were gearing up for the battle of our lives,'' Romero said. ''Fortunately, they turned back from the abyss.'' 
 Liberals were also cheered by a speech Brennan gave in Washington over the summer at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Brennan said Obama ''is bringing a fundamentally new and more effective approach,'' one that would be more ''multidimensional'' without letting terrorism define American foreign policy. Among other things, he emphasized the ''upstream factors,'' meaning the conditions that fuel extremism, and vowed to promote ''a political, economic and social campaign to meet the basic needs and legitimate grievances of ordinary people -- security for their communities, education for children, a job and income for parents and a sense of dignity and worth.''
 But something else was happening inside the White House. Some in the West Wing, like Emanuel, worried about the collateral cost of Holder's decision that would take Khalid Shaikh Mohammed to New York. Those concerns were relayed to the Justice Department, but Obama declined to intervene and let Holder make the call. Still, by the end of the year, the activists' favorite ally in the West Wing, Greg Craig, was out. He resigned after months of battles over the best way to reorient the war on terror, some that he won and others that he lost. 
 ''He was the one voice for a constant application of the rule of law in the White House,'' Romero lamented. ''The others either demur or mumble.'' Craig's ouster, he added, was ''unfortunate because it means the likes of Rahm Emanuel will consolidate power in the White House.''
 AT THE HOUSE that John Brennan built, about 600 government employees keep tabs on what the extremists are up to, at least as much as they can. The National Counterterrorism Center, which Brennan set up on a leafy campus overlooking the Capital Beltway in the Virginia suburbs outside Washington, is the center of the nation's efforts to hunt down Al Qaeda and its cousins. Obama came to visit last fall, and Brennan accompanied him.
 The operations center at the NCTC looks a lot like the set from ''24,'' the Fox television show, with dozens of analysts from an alphabet soup of agencies known by their acronyms -- C.I.A., F.B.I., D.O.D., N.S.A., D.I.A., D.H.S., D.N.I., T.S.A. and so on -- sitting together as they sift through surveillance videos, intercepted telephone calls, satellite imagery, reports from the field, news accounts and myriad other ''intelligence streams,'' as they are known. A dozen large flat-screen televisions tune in everything from satellite reconnaissance to CNN. Digital clocks indicate the time in hot spots around the world. Multiscreen computers help collate vast quantities of information.
 This place was supposed to help stop the attack by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab aboard a plane over Detroit on Christmas Day. Since Sept. 11, government agencies like the NCTC have connected the dots repeatedly to head off terrorist attacks. In the last few months alone, the government has arrested a number of suspected plotters in the United States. But the cliche is right -- the government has to be right 100 percent of the time, while the other side needs to succeed only once. And Brennan produced a report this month that criticized the NCTC, his old organization, for failing to pull together intelligence that was available about Al Qaeda and Abdulmutallab before he boarded Northwest Flight 253 in Amsterdam last month.
 The Christmas Day plot touched off a new round of questions among Obama's criticsabout whether the president is enough of a warrior for the fight against Islamic terrorism. Buthe has spent much of his time in office killing suspected extremists. With information processed at the NCTC and elsewhere, Obama has authorized the C.I.A. to greatly expand a program inherited from Bush using unmanned Predator and Reaper drones to launch missiles at suspected Al Qaeda hideouts along the border between Pakistan and Afghanistan. Critics complain that such ''targeted assassinations'' are morally suspect and strategically dangerous because of the reaction among Pakistanis when civilians are killed. Obama had a searching conversation during the transition with Brennan and Denis McDonough, Catholics who oppose the death penalty, about whether to keep the program. ''He was wrestling with it,'' one adviser says. But in the end, there was no serious disagreement with the decision to continue the program. At one of his first Situation Room meetings as president, according to a participant, Obama said pointedly, ''The C.I.A. gets what it needs.''
 The C.I.A. launched more than 50 such strikes in Obama's first year in office, more than during Bush's entire presidency, according to data compiled by Peter Bergen and Katherine Tiedemann at the New America Foundation. In part, that strategy owes to increasingly precise technology that has made it easier in the last couple of years to hit a desired target with fewer civilian casualties. And in part, it underscores the ability to redirect resources away from Iraq now that the war has subsided there; when the Obama administration came into office, it learned that dozens of drones were devoted to operations in Iraq and Afghanistan but just five or six in the tribal areas of Pakistan where Al Qaeda's leadership is mainly holed up, according to officials who declined to be identified discussing a classified program. Obama has authorized doubling the number of drones in the Pakistani border area, as well as increasing the presence over Yemen and Somalia, officials said. 
 Over the course of Obama's first year in office, his drones have taken out a number of ''high-value targets,'' including Baitullah Mehsud, leader of the Pakistani Taliban; Saad bin Laden, a son of Osama bin Laden; and Tahir Yuldashev, leader of the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan, a close ally of Al Qaeda. At the same time, according to estimates by Bergen and Tiedemann, the civilian death rate of those killed by drone strikes has fallen to about 24 percent in 2009 from about 40 percent from 2006 to 2008. Government officials insist that the civilian casualty rate is even lower. ''I don't hear anyone inside the government, including people like me who came from outside, who thinks the Predator program is anything but essential,'' a senior Obama counterterrorism official says. ''There are a lot of negatives, but it is completely essential.''
 Obama has been willing to be muscular in other ways as well. When intelligence agencies concluded in September that they had found Saleh Ali Saleh Nabhan, an Al Qaeda operative linked to the 2002 bombing of a Kenyan hotel, in southern Somalia, officials debated three options, including one to insert American special-operations forces in that lawless East African country, several officials told me. Obama's advisers rejected that and presented him with a plan for an airstrike, which he approved. Weather on the day of the strike prompted a change in plans, and commanders instead authorized attack helicopters to sweep into Somalia. Nabhan was killed. American forces landed afterward to collect bodies and evidence.
 Most salient at the moment is Obama's focus on Yemen, the poor, unstable state south of Saudi Arabia where Osama bin Laden's family hailed from. Yemen in many ways is where Obama's two wars come together. It is a breeding ground for extremism, the home of the radical cleric who inspired Maj. Nidal Hasan before he opened fire at Fort Hood last fall and the origin of the Christmas Day bombing plot involving Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab. At the same time, it is the place where roughly half of the remaining detainees at Guantanamo come from, making it the central focus for efforts to close the prison.
 Brennan visited Yemen in March and again in September to focus new energy on combating Al Qaeda there. Obama has ordered more training, equipment and intelligence sharing for the Yemeni government; about $70 million was set aside to bulk up Yemeni forces, doubling previous spending, and the administration has announced it will double it again next year. Last month the American government provided intelligence and hardware for Yemeni airstrikes on suspected Al Qaeda hideouts. Brennan has also been trying to set up a rehabilitation program for Yemen to transition former Guantanamo detainees back into society. But for all the attention on Yemen, Brennan has now acknowledged that he and the rest of the American government underestimated the capacity of Al Qaeda's branch there to attack American soil.
 OBAMA WAS SINGING Christmas carols with his family at a rental house in Hawaii when a military aide arrived to tell him that someone tried to blow up a plane over Detroit. The president got on the phone with Brennan, who told him a Nigerian man tried to ignite chemicals hidden in his underwear, only to have passengers and crew jump him. Soon enough, Abdulmutallab would be tied to Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, which operates in Yemen.
 The Obama team's initial public response was less than sure-footed. Obama referred to Abdulmutallab as an ''isolated extremist,'' and Janet Napolitano said that ''the system worked.'' Obama would soon learn how wrong both assessments were. While on vacation he was given an 80-page review of the Fort Hood shooting; it looked at how information about Hasan was not well circulated within the federal government. The night after his first statement, the president's advisers learned that something similar happened in the Detroit case: the government possessed National Security Agency-intercepted conversations that could have helped to stop Abdulmutallab if they had been shared widely. 
 Obama talked with Brennan and other advisers by phone the next morning. He was simmering. ''Let me make this very clear to you,'' he told the advisers, according to two of them. ''While I understand intelligence is hard, and I'll never fault anybody for not having full intelligence, what I will fault is when we have full intelligence that's not shared.'' After hanging up with Brennan, aides scrambled to organize a statement to the news media. Denis McDonough, the National Security Council chief of staff, typed out a draft on the president's laptop as Obama hovered over his shoulder.
 ''What's the deal?'' Obama asked.
 ''I'm just about done,'' McDonough said.
 ''Well, just move over.'' Obama sat down and finished it himself.
 The president's statement that there was a ''systemic failure'' did not quell the political furor. White House officials were caught off guard by the intensity of the criticism. After reading a Cheney statement that attacked Obama for only pretending to be at war with terrorists, David Axelrod angrily wrote a long statement trashing the former vice president and gave it to Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director, who revised it and posted on the White House Web site. The criticism got Brennan's back up too, particularly coming from some of his former colleagues in the Bush administration.
 ''A lot of the knuckleheads I've been listening to out there on the network shows don't know what they're talking about,'' he told me after the Christmas Day attempt. Some Republicans, including Cheney, were blatantly mischaracterizing the record, he fumed. ''When they say the administration's not at war with Al Qaeda, that is just complete hogwash.'' It was the angriest I had heard him during months of conversations. ''What they're doing is just playing into Al Qaeda's strategic effort, which is to get us to battle among ourselves instead of focusing on them,'' he said.
 It is moments like these when Brennan's disaffection from the last administration becomes evident. ''I much prefer talking with someone who is interested in understanding the situation and responding to it appropriately,'' Brennan told me.
 For all of the attention on the Nigerian underwear bomber, some experts say they believe the more insidious threat will be a new generation of homegrown extremists. In recent months, authorities have arrested a number of American citizens and legal residents, including Najibullah Zazi, an airport-shuttle driver who is suspected of plotting to attack New York after receiving training in Pakistan, and David Coleman Headley, a Pakistani-American accused of aiding terrorist attacks in Mumbai. Just a week ago, authorities arrested two associates of Zazi's. And then there is the Fort Hood shooting rampage, as well as a group of Somali-Americans from Minnesota who reportedly wanted to fight in Somalia and five American Muslims from Virginia who traveled to Pakistan supposedly to join the jihad.
 If they are the next wave, American extremists are going to be hard to track and stop. The Internet makes it possible for Al Qaeda and its allies to reach out from the dusty villages of Waziristan all the way to Illinois and Colorado. ''Although no one wants to admit it, I think a watershed has been crossed in the terrorist threat in the United States,'' Bruce Hoffman, a Georgetown University terrorism scholar, told me. ''It's way different than it was in the Bush years.''
 The Obama administration has been trying to figure out how to counter it. In October, Obama secretly ordered a review of the ways different agencies track travels between the United States and places like Pakistan to look for holes to close. Napolitano told me: ''We can't operate in the paradigm that if they attack us, they would be coming from other countries into the United States. We have some that are homegrown. That is a change.'' 
 After all the lawyerly focus on Guantanamo and the rules of war, the latest threats put more focus on Obama in the role of commander in chief. It did not go unnoticed that when he accepted the Nobel Peace Prize, he declared that ''evil does exist in the world.'' After the Christmas Day plot, his press secretary, Robert Gibbs, consciously or not, used the term ''war on terror.'' The White House then dispatched Brennan for a blitz of four Sunday shows, the first such foray for the C.I.A. veteran.
 Obama made almost as many statements about terrorism in the two weeks following Christmas as he did in the 11 months preceding it, not counting those focused on Afghanistan. ''Our nation is at war,'' Obama declared on Jan. 2. ''We are at war,'' he said five days later as he released reports on the Detroit plot.
 The war goes on, abroad and at home. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: NERVE CENTER: Obama visiting the National Counterterrorism Center in October. A January report on the Christmas Day terrorist plot would sharply criticize the center. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAMANTHA APPLETON/THE WHITE HOUSE) (MM30-31)
DELIBERATIONS: John Brennan, the top White House counterterrorism adviser, meeting with Obama in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE) (MM35)
MEETING THE PRESS: Brennan appeared on four news programs on the first Sunday of the new year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILLIAM B. PLOWMAN/NBC NEWSWIRE/AP PHOTO) (MM36)
WAR PRESIDENT: Obama leads a meeting on Afghanistan in the White House Situation Room on Nov. 23. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE) (MM39) DELIBERATIONS John Brennan, the top White House counterterrorism adviser, meeting with Obama in May. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PETE SOUZA/THE WHITE HOUSE ) (MM35)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); TERRORISM (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (74%); CHRISTMAS (72%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); DAVID AXELROD (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



489 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1588 words

HEADLINE: The Great Tea Party Rip-Off

BYLINE: By FRANK RICH

 BODY:
Even given the low bar set by America's bogus conversations about race, the short-lived Harry Reid fracas was a most peculiar nonevent. For all the hyperventilation in cable news land, this supposed racial brawl didn't seem to generate any controversy whatsoever in what is known as the real world. 
 Eugene Robinson, the liberal black columnist at The Washington Post, wrote that he was ''neither shocked nor outraged'' at Reid's less-than-articulate observation that Barack Obama benefited politically from being ''light-skinned'' and for lacking a ''Negro dialect unless he wanted to have one.'' Besides, Robinson said, Reid's point was ''surely true.'' The black conservative Ward Connerly agreed, writing in The Wall Street Journal that he was ''having a difficult time determining what it was that Mr. Reid said that was so offensive.'' 
 President Obama immediately granted Reid absolution. A black columnist at The Daily News in New York, Stanley Crouch, even stood up for the archaic usage of ''Negro.'' George Will defended Reid from charges of racism as vociferously as Democrats did. Al Sharpton may have accepted Reid's apology, but for once there's no evidence that he ever cared enough to ask for one. So who, actually, was the aggrieved party here? What -- or who -- was really behind this manufactured race war with no victims? 
 It would be easy to dismiss the entire event as a credulous news media's collaboration with a publisher's hype for a new tell-all-gossip 2008 campaign book, ''Game Change,'' which breathlessly broke the Reid ''bombshell.'' But this is a more interesting tale than that. The true prime mover in this story was not a book publicist but Michael Steele, the chairman of the Republican Party and by far the loudest and most prominent Beltway figure demanding that Reid resign as Senate majority leader as punishment for his ''racism.''
 Steele is widely regarded as a clown by observers of all political persuasions, but he is clownish like a fox. His actions in this incident offer some hilarious and instructive insights into what's going on in the Republican hierarchy right now as it tries to cope not just with our first African-American president but with a restive base embracing right-wing tea-party populism that loathes the establishment in both parties. And though Steele is black, and perhaps the most enthusiastic player of the race card in American politics today, race was a red herring in his Reid vendetta. It threw most everyone off the scent of his real motivation, which had nothing to do with black versus white but everything to do with green, as in money.
 A profligate spender, Steele had inaugurated his arrival as party chairman by devoting nearly $20,000 to redecorate his office because he found it ''way too male'' for his sensitive tastes. In the weeks just before ''Game Change'' emerged, Steele was in more hot water. Over the holidays, G.O.P. elders were shocked to learn that their front man had a side career as a motivational public speaker at up to $20,000 a gig. The party treasury, which contained $22.8 million upon Steele's arrival at the end of January 2009, was down to $8.7 million by late November, with 2010 campaign expenditures rapidly arriving. ''He needs to raise money for the party, not his wallet,'' one Republican leader griped to Politico.
 Then, just after New Year, Steele published an unexpected book of his own, ''Right Now: A 12-Step Program for Defeating the Obama Agenda.'' He hadn't told his employers that the book was in the works, and, to add further insult, he attacks unnamed party leaders in its pages for forsaking conservative principles. Since it hit the stores, Steele has pursued a book tour for fun and personal profit, all the while daring his G.O.P. critics to bring it on. ''If you don't want me in the job, fire me,'' he taunted them. ''But until then, shut up. Get with the program, or get out of the way.''
 Fire him? Steele knows better than anyone that his party can't afford what Clarence Thomas might call a ''high-tech lynching'' of the only visible black guy it has in even a second-tier office. Steele has said that white Republicans are ''scared'' of him. They are. He loves to play head games with their racial paranoia and insecurities, whether he's publicly professing ''slum love'' for the Indian-American Louisiana governor, Bobby Jindal, or starting a blog on the R.N.C. site titled ''What Up?,'' or announcing that he would use ''fried chicken and potato salad'' to recruit minority voters. As long as the G.O.P. remains largely a whites-only country club, Steele has job security. But he had real reason to fear some new restraints on the cash box; last year the party was driven to write a rule requiring him to get approval for expenditures over $100,000.
 On Jan. 9 The Washington Post ran a front-page article headlined ''Frustrations With Steele Leaving G.O.P. in a Bind,'' reporting, among other embarrassments, that the party had spent $90 million during Steele's brief reign while raising just $84 million. Enter ''Game Change,'' right in the nick of time for Steele to pull off his own cunning game change. On Jan. 10 he stormed ''Fox News Sunday'' and ''Meet the Press'' to demand Reid's head. There has been hardly a mention of Steele's sins since. He can laugh all the way to the bank.
 His behavior is not anomalous. Steele is representative of a fascinating but little noted development on the right: the rise of buckrakers who are exploiting the party's anarchic confusion and divisions to cash in for their own private gain. In this cause, Steele is emulating no one if not Sarah Palin, whose hunger for celebrity and money outstrips even his own. As many suspected at the time, her 2008 campaign wardrobe, like the doomed campaign itself, was just a preview of coming attractions: she would surely dump the bother of serving as Alaska's besieged governor for a lucrative star turn on Fox News. Last week she made it official.
 Both Steele and Palin claim to be devotees of the tea party movement. ''I'm a tea partier, I'm a town-haller, I'm a grass-roots-er'' is how Steele put it in a recent radio interview, wet-kissing a market he hopes will buy his book. Palin has far more grandiose ambitions. She recently signed on as a speaker for the first Tea Party Convention, scheduled next month in Nashville -- even though she had turned down a speaking invitation from the annual Conservative Political Action Conference, the traditional meet-and-greet for the right. The conservative conference doesn't pay. The Tea Party Convention does. A blogger at Nashville Scene reported that Palin's price for the event was $120,000. 
 The entire Tea Party Convention is a profit-seeking affair charging $560 a ticket -- plus the cost of a room at the Opryland Hotel. Among the convention's eight listed sponsors is Tea Party Emporium, which gives as its contact address 444 Madison Avenue in New York, also home to the high-fashion brand Burberry. This emporium's Web site offers a bejeweled tea bag at $89.99 for those furious at ''a government hell bent on the largest redistribution of wealth in history.'' This is almost as shameless as Glenn Beck, whose own tea party profiteering has included hawking gold coins merchandised by a sponsor of his radio show.
 Last week a prominent right-wing blogger, Erick Erickson of RedState.com, finally figured out that the Tea Party Convention ''smells scammy,'' likening it to one of those Nigerian e-mails promising untold millions. Such rumbling about the movement's being co-opted by hucksters may explain why Palin used her first paid appearance at Fox last Tuesday to tell Bill O'Reilly that she would recycle her own tea party profits in political contributions. But Erickson had it right: the tea party movement is being exploited -- and not just by marketers, lobbyists, political consultants and corporate interests but by the Republican Party, as exemplified by Palin and Steele, its most prominent leaders. 
 Tea partiers hate the G.O.P. establishment and its Wall Street allies, starting with the Bushies who created TARP, almost as much as they do Obama and his Wall Street pals. When Steele and Palin pay lip service to the movement, they are happy to glom on to its anti-tax, anti-Obama, anti-government, anti-big-bank vitriol. But they don't call for any actual action against the bailed-out perpetrators of the financial crisis. They'd never ask for investments to put ordinary Americans back to work. They have no policies to forestall foreclosures or protect health insurance for the tea partiers who've been shafted by hard times. Their only economic principle beside tax cuts is vilification of the stimulus that did save countless jobs for firefighters, police officers and teachers at the state and local level. 
 The Democrats' efforts to counter the deprivation and bitterness spawned by the Great Recession are indeed timid and imperfect. The right has a point when it says that the Senate health care votes of Ben Nelson of Nebraska and Mary Landrieu of Louisiana were bought with pork. But at least their constituents can share the pigout. Hustlers like Steele and Palin take the money and run. All their followers get in exchange is a lousy tea party T-shirt. Or a ghost-written self-promotional book. Or a tepid racial sideshow far beneath the incendiary standards of the party whose history from Strom to ''macaca'' has driven away nearly every black American except Steele for the past 40 years.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BARRY BLITT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LIBERALISM (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); POLITICS (75%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (68%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (63%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (57%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (92%); MICHAEL STEELE (73%); BARACK OBAMA (71%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



490 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRESCRIPTIONS MAKING SENSE OF THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Sees Political Gain in Health Care

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
Even as Democrats nail down the final details of their health care bill, Republicans are devising ways to convert it into political capital. 
 Their greatest hope is to defeat the bill outright, rebuffing President Obama on his signature domestic issue and weakening the Democrats heading into the midterm elections. Republicans now think they can persuade some conservative and moderate Democrats in the House to vote against the final bill, which initially passed the House by just five votes.
 ''We're looking at 37 Democrats who are in districts that are particularly upset and vulnerable to the provisions of this health care bill,'' Representative Eric Cantor, Republican of Virginia, said last week. 
 Even if the bill does pass, the conservative Club for Growth has put into place a campaign called Repeal It, which asks lawmakers and candidates to pledge to repeal the measure. Two Republicans in Congress, Senator Jim DeMint of South Carolina and Representative Jeff Flake of Arizona, have signed the pledge, as have Republican candidates for the Senate in at least five states.
 Chris Chocola, president of the club, said he wanted to make health care ''a defining issue in 2010.'' It is, he said, a symbol of the Obama administration's expansion of government and excessive spending.
 At the same time, a simmering states' rights movement to challenge the bill's likely requirement that everyone buy health insurance or pay a penalty is picking up steam. 
 So far, 26 states have introduced or plan to introduce legislation to outlaw the proposed federal mandate. That number is double what it was three months ago. 
 Representative John A. Boehner, the Ohio Republican who is the party's leader in the House and who endorsed the movement last week, said it was part of a larger effort to ''defeat this bill before it harms our economy and undermines the health care of every American.''
 While Republicans are seeking to cripple the Democratic majorities in the House and the Senate by defeating the bill or making noise about repealing it, Democrats are trying to finish it and have Mr. Obama sign it before he delivers his State of the Union address.
 But after a string of government bailouts and with the unemployment rate still in double digits, Republicans perceive the political tide turning in their favor, beyond the gains that a party out of power typically makes in midterm elections.
 The Cook Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter, predicts that the Republicans could see a net gain of 20 to 30 seats in the House this year; they need 40 to win back the majority. On the Senate side, most analysts expect the Democrats to lose their 60-vote majority, which they need to push through bills like the health care legislation. 
 The special election in Massachusetts on Tuesday, which will yield a successor to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, could give an indication of how potent an issue health care will be in the fall.
 The race has become a referendum in part on health care, and the bill's fate hangs in the balance. If the Republican candidate, Scott Brown, wins, he could kill the entire health care effort (and more). The president's plan to visit Massachusetts on Sunday underscores the importance of the contest.
 Nationally, the public remains skeptical of the proposal. A Quinnipiac poll last week showed 34 percent of voters mostly approving of it and 54 percent mostly disapproving. 
 Perhaps more alarming for Democrats, the poll showed that for the first time, voters said they trusted Republicans on health care to the same degree they trusted Mr. Obama. In July, the poll showed that Mr. Obama led in the trust factor on health care by 20 percentage points over Republicans.
 Ed Goeas, a Republican pollster, said Republicans did not need to do anything special to make health care an issue in the elections because the particulars of the bills have already done that.
 ''People have come to a common-sense conclusion,'' he said. ''They say to themselves, 'I like the quality of my health care, and now you're telling me that you're going to keep the quality and expand coverage to all and lower the cost? That doesn't add up.' ''
 Mr. Obama, of course, insists that it will add up and that the legislation will have a positive effect, providing health insurance for 30 million people who do not have it now, ending some discriminatory practices of the health insurance industry and not adding a dime to the deficit. 
 Mr. Obama said last week that he would not stand by while Republicans tried to score points with their obstruction of health care legislation. 
 ''If Republicans want to campaign against what we've done by standing up for the status quo and for insurance companies over American families and businesses,'' he said, ''that is a fight I want to have.''
 But is his declaration too little too late? The results in Massachusetts on Tuesday should provide a clue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Representative John A. Boehner, shown at a November news conference on health care, said the aim was to ''defeat this bill before it harms our economy.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); BAILOUTS (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); JEFF FLAKE (58%); TED KENNEDY (58%); ERIC CANTOR (58%); JIM DEMINT (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



491 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; THE BOSS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: The Road to the Cure

 BODY:
AT 8 o'clock most nights, my four siblings and I would gather around the TV. My dad was director of advertising for CBS in the early 1960s, and it was our family pastime to pick apart the ads on the different channels. 
 My family lived in Westport, Conn., hometown of Paul Newman. He became my hero, first as an actor and then as a philanthropic innovator with his Newman's Own company. I didn't know I'd grow up to emulate him (well, the philanthropy part, at least, not the part about working with Robert Redford). 
 I had a keen interest in marketing from those early days watching TV ads, and I studied business and computers in college. After graduating, I worked for a variety of companies focusing on consumer behavior. I analyzed trends shaping phone purchases. I marketed Rice-A-Roni. I landed at Microsoft in 1984 as a product manager, when the company was still small. On Fridays, we had pizza with Bill Gates.
 Before working at Microsoft, I created a lot of presentations -- and like everyone else at the time, I hand-cut graphs and glued them onto paper, sent the text to the typing pool and made glass slides to project on the wall. At the same time, I experimented with the latest computer technologies, figuring out how I could use them to analyze and present data. 
 At Microsoft, I started thinking about the painstaking processes I had used for those presentations. I wrote and presented a proposal to Bill Gates for a new piece of software for the personal computer, specifically to help people create presentations without all the scissors and paper. 
 That memo is now in the Microsoft archives because it helped lead the way to Microsoft PowerPoint. So I guess you can either thank me or blame me for that!
 While I was enjoying my career, cancer unfortunately was also a big part of my life. My father died from cancer in 1983, and it took my mom's life in 1993. So when I received a diagnosis of breast cancer at 39, I thought I would die of it as well. 
 While I was struggling with my illness, I saw an incredible emotional connection among people who wanted to help. Still weak from my final chemotherapy, I entered and struggled to finish a 10k breast-cancer run. I limped along, bald under my bright pink cap. Crowds of strangers along the race route cheered for me, and their energy buoyed me across the finish line.
 I was fortunate. My cancer was detected early, and the treatment was a success. I have been cancer-free since.
 From that time, I decided to be part of the cure. I turned to the energy of that crowd, the connection of people who wanted to help. I also turned to the philanthropic model of my hero, Paul Newman. I left Microsoft 10 years ago and set out to create a product line that would provide a continuing source of funding and inspiration to others to help find a cure for women's cancers. 
 My company, Athena Partners, creates products like bottled water and chocolates, and 100 percent of net profits go to cancer research and education. Our corporate symbol, Athena, is the Greek goddess of wisdom and war, and she's a symbol of battling cancer in an intelligent, strategic way. 
 So now I've merged my two passions -- business and finding a cure. For customers, buying Athena products is a way of supporting a cause. Business partners like Sysco, Alaska Airlines and Costco can demonstrate their social responsibility by offering my products. 
 There's so much to be done to reach my goal of donating $1 million every year to eradicate cancer. But when things are tough, and in this economic climate they are, I think back to the crowds cheering for the little bald gal in the pink cap, and I keep on going. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TRISH MAY: Founder and C.E.O., Athena Partners, Seattle AGE 56 HOBBY Running FAVORITE VACATION Anywhere near water. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. HOBSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (88%); CANCER (85%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (78%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); PHILANTHROPY (76%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (74%); PRESENTATION SOFTWARE (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (74%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); BREAST CANCER (70%); PRODUCT MANAGEMENT (69%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (67%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (67%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (62%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (90%); NEWMAN'S OWN INC (57%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%)

PERSON: BILL GATES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



492 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Election Confidential

BYLINE: By JACOB HEILBRUNN. 
Jacob Heilbrunn is a regular contributor to the Book Review and a senior editor at The National Interest.

 BODY:
GAME CHANGE
 Obama and the Clintons, McCain and Palin, and the Race of a Lifetime
 By John Heilemann and Mark Halperin
 448 pp. Harper/HarperCollins Publishers. $27.99
 In July 2006 Harry Reid, the Senate majority leader, abruptly summoned Barack Obama, then a freshman senator, for a meeting. Obama, who had a cordial but not warm relationship with Reid, immediately headed for his office, remarking to his press secretary Robert Gibbs, ''I wonder what we screwed up.'' Upon Obama's arrival, Reid didn't mince words: ''You're not going to go anyplace here,'' he said. ''I know that you don't like it, doing what you're doing.'' After the lecture, when Obama had returned, Gibbs asked if anything was amiss. Not at all, Obama replied. ''Harry wants me to run for president.'' 
 It was a telling moment. Hillary Clinton might have publicly appeared to be her party's preferred candidate, but Reid, as John Heilemann and Mark Halperin report in ''Game Change,'' was part of a growing contingent of Democratic senators quietly urging Obama to challenge Clinton, who they worried was saddled with the vote she cast in 2002 authorizing the Iraq war, along with sky-high negative ratings, ''especially outside the bluest states,'' and, not least, rumors about her husband's personal life: ''the topic of tittering in every quadrant of the Democratic Establishment from New York to Boston to Los Angeles,'' but above all in Washington, the authors write. Heilemann, a columnist for New York magazine, and Halperin, the senior political analyst for Time, have conducted hundreds of interviews to provide the inside story of the 2008 campaign, longer on vignettes and backstage gossip than on analysis. But if their racy account provides little context for Obama's rise, it vividly shows how character flaws large and small caused his opponents to self-destruct. The narrative also reinforces the familiar argument that a presidential campaign provides one important test of a candidate's ability to govern. Each successive election cycle seems to have increased the stakes, and it has been going on a long time. ''Formerly a candidate, unless possessed of popular gifts, did but little speaking,'' Lord Bryce observed in ''The American Commonwealth,'' published in 1888. ''Latterly he has been expected to take the field and stay in it fighting all the time.'' Hillary Clinton, however, anticipated no such ordeal, expecting instead to coast through the early primaries and build up an insurmountable lead. Unenthusiastic about the Iowa caucuses, the campaign's first battleground, she tried to avoid overnight stays there. She complained about the scruffy hotels and resisted calling local politicos, even hanging up on one who said that she was wavering between Clinton and another candidate. As for the challenge posed by Obama, ''Hillary could still barely fathom that he was in the race at all,'' Heilemann and Halperin write. They note that in the fall of 2006, before a single vote had been cast, Clinton began contemplating possible running mates in the general election, and also asked Roger Altman, a deputy Treasury secretary in her husband's administration, to initiate the planning for her transition to the White House.
 There were other difficulties, too. Bill Clinton's aides, Heilemann and Halperin report, had been startled to discover that within days of his settling into a new house in Chappaqua, N.Y., in 2001, he was hanging out at a local deli, ''chatting up the stay-at-home mothers'' who came in after their yoga sessions. Hillary deputized two advisers to form ''a war room within a war room'' that was ''dedicated to managing the threat posed by Bill's libido,'' though it was actually his clumsy attempts during the primaries to depict Obama's campaign as a ''fairy tale'' that would prove most damaging to his wife's efforts. 
 John Edwards, the third leading contender, pulled off the feat of eclipsing the former president by embarking upon a clandestine affair with Rielle Hunter, a producer of Web videos who had been the model for the ''sexually voracious'' 20-year-old Alison Poole in Jay McInerney's novel ''Story of My Life,'' published in 1988. Heilemann and Halperin attribute the implosion of Edwards's campaign in part to the screaming matches he had with his wife, Elizabeth, whose cancer had been diagnosed in November 2004. She too was a difficult case, deeply admired for her valiant response to her illness, but to campaign insiders ''an abusive, intrusive, paranoid, condescending crazy woman.'' Not that her husband was any better. The authors depict him as a delusional megalomaniac.
 Heilemann and Halperin are no less unsparing of the McCains, another warring couple: ''The McCains fought in front of others, during small meetings and before large events, to the amazement and discomfort of the staff.'' By the spring of 2007, reports were circulating that Cindy McCain had a long-term boyfriend who accompanied her publicly in Arizona. And there was speculation about the candidate's relationship with Vicki Iseman, a Washington lobbyist. Heilemann and Halperin devote much attention to the story, noting that some of McCain's ''advisers were living in terror'' because ''at least a half-dozen new delvings into McCain's personal life had been undertaken by news organizations,'' including The New York Times. Its article, published Feb. 21, 2008, in fact helped McCain where he was weakest, among conservatives who had doubted his ideological bona fides. A perceived assault on him by The Times redounded to his benefit, exactly as McCain's canny chief operative, Steve Schmidt, had predicted. 
 Even Schmidt, however, was unable to prevent McCain from impulsively choosing Sarah Palin as his running mate. ''Unlike Obama and his methodical process, McCain was flying by the seat of his pants,'' the authors observe. ''In judging Palin, he was relying on a vetting so hasty and haphazard it barely merited the name.'' Initially eager to bone up on foreign policy -- a subject on which she betrayed thorough ignorance -- Palin attentively sat for an all-day tutorial with McCain's advisers that ran from the Spanish Civil War up to the present. But after her disastrous interview with Katie Couric, Palin told her handler, Nicolle Wallace, ''I want to do what I want to do.'' Palin was not an isolated example of McCain's fecklessness. ''Not today,'' was his automatic response to being advised to practice for debates with Obama, who, by contrast, prepared extensively. Out of his depth on economic issues, McCain allowed Obama essentially to direct a special bipartisan White House meeting in September that McCain had himself insisted George W. Bush hold. Just before McCain entered the White House, he stared blankly at a young Treasury aide and inquired, ''What do I need to know about this meeting?'' 
 In ''Game Change,'' Obama emerges as the most incisive, most disciplined and, in important ways, most conservative of all the contenders. He assembled a crack team that did not engage in the internecine warfare that afflicted his opponents. And his evidently spotless personal history helped insulate him from the buffetings his counterparts suffered as their tumultuous lives came under forensic scrutiny. Even the crisis of his relationship with the Rev. Jeremiah Wright faded against the image of the faithful, even uxorious, husband and devoted father of two young daughters. 
 No doubt Obama, as Heilemann and Halperin emphasize, could also be a ruthless practitioner of political hardball and often benefited from a bedazzled press corps. But none of that fully explains his remarkable ascent. An incredulous Hillary Clinton, observing the political advantage Obama reaped from the financial meltdown in September 2008, was left to surmise, ''God wants him to win.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLISHING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CAUCUSES (77%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%)

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); HARRY REID (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (89%); SARAH PALIN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

TITLE: Game Change (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



493 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: The Brill Building

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re: Streetscapes, ''Built With a Broken Heart,'' by Christopher Gray, Jan. 3:
 I find it strange that you would do a piece on the Brill Building without mentioning its importance in American songwriting history. It was the Tin Pan Alley of the rock 'n' roll era. But it was wonderful to know about its beginnings. 
 JERSEY HOLLAND
 Los Angeles
 To the Editor:
 Your story about the Brill Building brought back marvelous memories. When I was a 15- or 16- year-old saxophone player who had a band, I learned that I could get free orchestrations from music publishers if I had a letter of introduction from a famous musician.
 One night I went to the Hotel Pennsylvania's Cafe Rouge, where Glenn Miller was playing. As a kid, I couldn't get into the room, so I waited outside until Miller took a break. I walked up to him and asked him to write a letter saying that he would appreciate it if the recipient gave the bearer complimentary orchestrations. Miller wrote the letter, beaming all the while.
 After school I went downtown to the Brill Building, and came home with a shopping bag full of orchestrations. Some were unknown songs, but some were popular. I did this once a month. I built a library of orchestrations, so that when my band played jobs for $2 (sometimes for $5), it was all profit.
 The Brill Building sidewalk was a hangout for unemployed musicians, where band leaders picked up musicians for jobs. Woody Herman played a chart called ''Sidewalk Stanley'' about a drummer who was so bad that he spent all his time sidewalking because nobody would hire him.
 If any of the guys I used to play with are still around, I would love to hear from you.
 LEE HILTON
 San Jose, Costa Rica
 hilton723@verizon.net

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Brill Building (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); MUSIC (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (88%); POP & ROCK (77%); SONG WRITING (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (75%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (75%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); MUSIC PUBLISHING (72%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (72%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, COSTA RICA (50%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COSTA RICA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



494 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: A Helping Hand for Haiti

BYLINE: By BILL CLINTON and GEORGE W. BUSH. 
Bill Clinton was the 42nd president of the United States. George W. Bush was the 43rd president.

 BODY:
This weekend, President Obama asked us to spearhead private-sector fund-raising efforts in the aftermath of the magnitude 7.0 earthquake that ravaged Haiti. We are pleased to answer his call.
 Throughout both our careers in public service, we have witnessed firsthand the amazing generosity of the American people in the face of calamity. From the Oklahoma City bombings to 9/11, from the tsunami in South Asia to Hurricane Katrina, Americans have rallied to confront disaster -- natural or man-made, domestic or abroad -- with the determination, compassion and unity that have defined our nation since its founding. 
 After the tsunami, Americans gave more than $1 billion to help the people of South Asia. The recent earthquake in Haiti is estimated to have had an impact on nearly three million people -- 30 percent of Haiti's population. We know the American people will respond again. Just as any of us would reach out to a neighbor in need here at home, we will do everything we can to give aid, care and comfort to our neighbors in the Caribbean, now and in the months and years to come. 
 With advances in technology, giving to relief efforts is easier than ever before. Organizations like the Red Cross have been stunned at the amount of money pouring in through an innovative fund-raising effort that allows cellphone users to text a $10 donation that will be added to their cellphone bills. The State Department raised more than $1 million in the first 24 hours, with millions more coming in the days since the earthquake. This money is being channeled to reliable charities with long experience in disaster relief, ensuring that Americans' contributions are put to effective use.
 Our first priority will be to raise funds to meet the urgent needs of those who are hurt, homeless and hungry, and to ensure that the organizations and relief workers on the ground have the resources to do their jobs effectively. In the first two weeks, the needs are very simple: food, water, shelter, first aid supplies. Once relief workers have gone through all the rubble and every person -- living and dead -- has been recovered, once the streets have been cleared and communications and power restored, then Haiti is going to have to get back on its feet again. 
 It's a long road to full recovery, but we will not leave the Haitian people to walk it alone. When the rebuilding begins, we will need even more support to make Haiti stronger than ever before: new, better schools; sturdier, more secure buildings that can withstand future natural disasters; solutions that address the inequalities in health care and education; new, diverse industries that create jobs and foster opportunities for greater trade; and development of clean energy.
 There are great reasons to hope. For the first time in our lifetimes, Haiti's government is committed to building a modern economy, and it has a comprehensive economic plan to create jobs. Haitian leaders have shown determination in confronting the challenges of AIDS, with strong support from private organizations and the Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief. Per capita, there are more nongovernmental organizations in Haiti than in any other country except India. The members of the Haitian diaspora, in Miami, New York, Toronto and other cities overseas, are involved in and committed to the future of their native country. And the world's attention is focused on this tiny island nation that has been overlooked for too long. 
 Crises have the power to bring out the best in people, and we have seen many examples of this over the years, especially after the tsunami. Conflict in Aceh, Indonesia, was laid to rest while people focused on rebuilding together. In communities along the Indian coast, women who had lost their husbands learned marketable skills like arts and crafts and emerged better able to provide for themselves and their children than they were before the disaster. 
 We should never forget the damage done and the lives lost, but we have a chance to do things better than we once did; be a better neighbor than we once were; and help the Haitian people realize their dream for a stronger, more secure nation. But we need more than just support from governments -- we need the innovation and resources of businesses; the skills and the knowledge of nongovernmental organizations, including faith-based groups; and the generosity and support of individuals to fill in the gaps. Visit www.clintonbushhaitifund.org to make a donation and learn more about our efforts. It's the least we can do, and the least the people of Haiti deserve. At our best, we can help Haiti become its best. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TSUNAMIS (90%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (89%); FOOD CHARITIES (87%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); POWER FAILURES (76%); FIRST AID (75%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); HURRICANES (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (65%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); JOB CREATION (62%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (60%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (60%); BOMBINGS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (92%) OKLAHOMA, USA (92%) HAITI (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SOUTHERN ASIA (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



495 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1170 words

HEADLINE: City as Stage, Audience As Family

BYLINE: By CELIA McGEE

 BODY:
THE restaurant Veselka, in the East Village, has featured Ukrainian borscht on its menu, individual banana cream pies on its daily specials board, and, in 2008, at the fourth table from the entrance, ''Etiquette,'' a performance piece in which the ticket holders were also the actors. Presented by the Foundry Theater and its artistic producer, Melanie Joseph, the work called for two people at a time to play the parts of a young woman and an elderly philosopher, with the dialogue fed to them through headphones. 
 However solipsistic it might have struck surrounding diners, the theater press loved it, tickets sold briskly, and, in what sounds like a terrible disappointment to Ms. Joseph, there were no walkouts. ''We haven't had any,'' she said, ''certainly not in a long time.'' 
 Not for ''The Race of the Ark Tattoo,'' by W. David Hancock, in 1998, which unfolded in a flea market, or Grisha Coleman's ''Hot Mouth,'' in 1997, an a cappella oratorio in an invented language. Or for ''Open House,'' by Aaron Landsman, which in 2008 cycled audiences through living rooms across the city to comment on gentrification. Even ''The Provenance of Beauty,'' a guided bus tour of the South Bronx created by Ms. Joseph and the poet Claudia Rankine, became something of a sensation last fall. 
 ''We've had people surprised to find themselves at a performance,'' Ms. Joseph, 54, said recently over tea at Veselka, downstairs from her office. ''But they haven't walked out.''
 Now she is giving them another chance, with the solo performance pieces ''The Myopia'' and ''Plays,'' by David Greenspan, running through Feb. 7. Relatively unusual for the Foundry, Mr. Greenspan and his works can be seen on an actual stage in a theater, the Atlantic Stage 2 on West 16th Street. The elaborate set for ''The Myopia'' consists entirely of a pleather-covered chair. For ''Plays,'' Mr. Greenspan's rendition of a lecture by Gertrude Stein on theater (performed as a double bill with ''The Myopia'' on weekends), a different chair and a desk serve his purpose. That aim is essentially to single-handedly conjure a whirl of events and characters from a seated position, making the physical theater -- as with most other Foundry productions -- irrelevant. 
 Signs of critical and audience displeasure so far are not forthcoming: in The New York Times, Charles Isherwood called the production ''unique and strangely bewitching,'' and said a theatergoer would emerge ''feeling dazzled and disoriented, as if you'd just seen a splashy Disney musical crossed with a Greek tragedy and a kitchen-sink drama, or maybe an evening of Samuel Beckett plays as staged by Florenz Ziegfeld.'' 
 To Mr. Greenspan, ''Melanie is a very active and supportive producer of works that aren't necessarily going to be seen otherwise.'' 
 Mr. Hancock recalled first meeting Ms. Joseph when she was ''one of maybe five people to come out to Coney Island U.S.A. in the middle of winter years ago for a piece of mine,'' he said, adding later, ''Part of her mission is not to just produce work but to produce artists.''
 Ms. Joseph grew up in Toronto, the daughter of a traveling bookseller father and a mother who used to instruct her, she said, that ''every minute is the time of your life.'' She warmed to theater only after studying political theory and literature at the University of Western Ontario, then toured with a company she started composed primarily of Inuit writers and performers adapting Inuit myths. Arriving in New York in 1982 -- the Foundry wasn't established until 12 years later -- she materialized in and around Off Off Broadway spaces like Alice's Upstairs and La Mama E.T.C. According to the author and playwright Carl Hancock Rux, she has had a following ever since. 
 ''We all love to imitate the way she calls everyone 'honey,' '' he said. ''Melanie engages in a discourse with you right away, whether for five minutes or five years. She harks back to a kind of theater that is born out of ideas, and does it often in very nontraditional ways. Ideas burn in her and she never stops, whether people get it or not.'' 
 Ideas like commissioning a piece about value, economic and other, by Kirk Lynn, who wrote the Foundry's ''Major Bang or How I Learned to Stop Worrying and Love the Dirty Bomb,'' a post-9/11 burlesque of the nuclear age that Ms. Joseph situated in a subterranean spot at St. Ann's Warehouse in 2006. Susan Feldman, the St. Ann's artistic director, said: ''She's an activist, politically and also artistically. I wanted to work with her because she was onto a new generation of actors, directors and writers.'' 
 Yet in 1993 Ms. Joseph almost left the field, frustrated with a profession she said lacked a sense of commitment to community, and started on a pre-med degree. Cornel West, the Princeton scholar, she said, was the one who deterred her, pushing her until she had written a mission statement for a theater she could get behind. The Foundry name was among the first components, ''because a foundry is where you make things,'' Ms. Joseph said. But despite the architectural signal that sends, she insisted from the beginning that her theater too exist as an idea rather than a building, a permanent space demanding administration. 
 ''I wanted to make new work that could be whatever it wanted to be,'' Ms. Joseph said of the Foundry's peripatetic quality, ''and every production a special event.'' 
 A spare approach has also kept the Foundry from running a deficit. Although hit by the economic downturn, it recently received a $50,000 stimulus grant from the National Endowment for the Arts and a large two-year grant from the Mellon Foundation. 
 ''What Melanie is, is very inclusive,'' Mr. Greenspan said. Several times a year since its inception, the Foundry has sponsored a variety of public forums, conferences and dialogues on topics like the global city, gentrification, health care and education.
 Sometimes theater pieces have sprung from those collective conversations, sometimes not, but the point, Ms. Joseph explained, is to ''take people out of the art world and a perspective it's easy to get stuck in.'' Every Thanksgiving week, the Foundry hosts Free Range, an event that brings together farmers, theater artists, neighborhood friends and invited guests to cook, eat and perform. 
 ''I don't believe theater can change the world,'' she said. ''People can -- through rigorously created art that can reveal to those watching what their politics are and through an interrogation of ideas that massages empathy, the place where all great politics comes from.'' 
 The evening before, she observed a run-through of ''The Myopia.'' Toward the end a father, played by Mr. Greenspan, tells a daughter, played by Mr. Greenspan, why she feels sad, an exposition as much about the theater as about emotions, and Ms. Joseph started to cry. 
 ''It was for that character,'' she said, ''and because this play is such a visceral discussion of the act of experiencing theater.''
 She didn't walk out. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Melanie Joseph, artistic producer for the Foundry Theater. Near right, ''The Provenance of Beauty,'' a poetical bus tour of the South Bronx, was created by Ms. Joseph and the poet Claudia Rankine. Far right, David Greenspan in his one-man Foundry production ''The Myopia.''(PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES
SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ARI MINTZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(AR6)
 Matthew Maher in the Foundry Theater's 1998 production of ''The Race of the Ark Tattoo.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY DONA ANN McADAMS)(AR10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); RESTAURANTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); TICKET SALES (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); UKRAINE (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



496 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Bay Area ; POLITICS; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 714 words

HEADLINE: Newsom Is Eclipsed In Marriage Movement

BYLINE: By DANIEL WEINTRAUB. 
Daniel Weintraub has reported on California politics and policy for more than 20 years.

 BODY:
Nearly six years after Mayor Gavin Newsom of San Francisco ignited a political and social firestorm by allowing same-sex couples to wed in his city, the issue of gay marriage remains at center stage, in the Bay Area and across the country. 
 But Mr. Newsom has been nearly eclipsed by a new generation of advocates and by an all-star legal team that took over the battle after his own efforts hit a wall. 
 Even as a federal judge in San Francisco prepares to decide a case that could ultimately reshape marriage laws across the nation, Mr. Newsom is largely on the sideline. He is like the founder of a start-up company who has been shunted aside just when the new enterprise finally hits its stride. These days he seems more at ease talking about health care and budgets and the Muni transit system than same-sex marriage. He declined a request to be interviewed for this article.
 State Senator Mark Leno, a fellow San Francisco Democrat, has emerged as the most prominent gay rights leader in the Legislature, and the State Assembly just elected its first openly gay speaker, John A. Perez of Los Angeles. 
 The court case that may now decide the issue for the country was filed by a Los Angeles group represented by the lawyers Theodore B. Olson and David Boies. The two litigators, who were on opposite sides of the Supreme Court decision that helped to put George W. Bush in the White House, have moved into the spotlight once dominated by Mr. Newsom.
 Mr. Newsom's lower profile could not be more different from the profile in February 2004, when the mayor plunged into a controversy that would define his career. The state's voters had banned same-sex marriage in 2000, but the Legislature was steadily expanding domestic partnership rights as an alternative for same-sex couples. The larger debate was at a standstill.
 Mr. Newsom changed that when he decided to issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples in defiance of state law. At first, he has said, he thought the city would issue just one license as a protest and to prompt a court case. But the idea snowballed, and San Francisco allowed thousands of couples to marry before a judge ordered a halt.
 The State Supreme Court later ruled that Mr. Newsom had overstepped his authority as mayor by taking the law into his own hands. But the court did not rule on the constitutionality of the marriage ban itself, and the justices all but invited a challenge along those lines. One was filed, and in the summer of 2008 the court struck down the ban, opening the door to same-sex marriages throughout California.
 That door was slammed shut months later when voters narrowly approved Proposition 8, placing a new ban into the Constitution and out of the reach of state judges. That is the law that is now under challenge in federal court.
 On the political front, Mr. Newsom's bold stand energized both sides but may have helped soften the opposition by putting a human face on a bitter controversy.
 ''This is one of those issues where a lot of people don't support it initially because they grew up believing that marriage is only between a man and woman, and when they see people who are getting married, when there is something in the news that questions that assumption, they sit down and think about it,'' said Geoff Kors, director of Equality California, an activist group that has pushed for legalizing same-sex marriage.
 Mr. Newsom's leadership on the issue made him a viable candidate for governor, by giving him a statewide and national profile, his former political consultant, Garry South, said.
 ''People would take his calls; people would fawn over him,'' Mr. South said. ''When he came to L.A., the paparazzi would follow him around.''
 Yet as a candidate in a race with no official opponent but one very big presumed foe -- Attorney General Jerry Brown -- Mr. Newsom could not raise enough money to compete. He dropped out in October and faces an uncertain future. His second term as mayor ends early in 2011.
 On Wednesday, as legal experts and observers picked apart the latest machinations in the federal case, the mayor delivered a state-of-the-city address to a small audience at the Asian Art Museum. His focus was almost exclusively on jobs and economic development. He did not even mention marriage.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); MARRIAGE (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COHABITATION (90%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); MARRIAGE LAW (89%); JUDGES (89%); LITIGATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (78%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (73%); LAWYERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); APPEALS (69%); LICENSES & PERMITS (61%); STARTUPS (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



497 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Chicago ; CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE; Pg. 27A

LENGTH: 1447 words

HEADLINE: In Race for U.S. School Grants Is a Fear of Winning

BYLINE: By CRYSTAL YEDNAK and KATIE FRETLAND

 BODY:
As Illinois jockeys for position as a leader in education reform with a $500 million application for Race to the Top money, the state's inability to pay current bills makes educators skeptical of Illinois's capacity to take on such new initiatives. 
 One major concern is that should Illinois succeed in the national competition for Race to the Top money, it might not have the ability to finance the long-term costs of any new programs once the federal money has been spent.
A $4.35 billion federal grant competition, Race to the Top, intends to reward states that promote innovations in education. While new money would seem to be a boon for Illinois schools, educators who have seen other programs ramp up only to be shut down are concerned about it happening again. 
 State Representative. Suzanne Bassi, a Republican from suburban Chicago who sits on the House appropriations committee for education, said she feared what would happen to any new Race to the Top programs in a few years. 
 ''The federal funds run out, and we all of sudden can't do anything about it,'' Ms. Bassi said. ''Then it falls on individual districts, and the taxpayers foot the bill.'' 
 Chris Slowik, the organizational director for the South Cooperative Organization for Public Education, which works on behalf of school districts in the south and southwest suburbs of Chicago, said districts had scars from previous ambitious efforts.
 ''Not too long ago,'' Ms. Slowik said, ''everyone was encouraged to get early-childhood programs going, but then the funding wasn't there.'' 
 ''Then you come along and have Race to The Top, and say you're going to give your all and put extra things on,'' she added. ''There's a feeling in the education community that these are expectations some know they can't meet.''
 Illinois is already facing financial difficulties. This year it has fallen behind on $1 billion in payments to schools and has already used $1 billion in federal stimulus money to plug a large hole in the state education budget. 
 The stimulus money will not be renewed in 2010, and any Race to the Top money can be used only for reforms the state is promising, not to buttress its general education budget. 
 State education officials say they cannot walk away from new money. Illinois's application for the grant competition seeks money to help improve systems for tracking student achievement and evaluating teachers and principals. The state also seeks money to improve underperforming schools. 
 Of Illinois's 870 school districts, about 350 signed on to join in the Race to the Top application. Participating districts that receive the federal money would be required to make the reforms the state is promising. 
 Some educators are skeptical that the state can meet even its current obligations for education financing, let alone support new Race to the Top initiatives. 
 ''Not in the current financial situation -- absolutely not,'' said Kenneth Cull, superintendent of District 69 in Skokie and Morton Grove. ''They put too much borrowing and Band-Aids on basic education. They can't do that forever. That's why there is really a crisis right upon us.'' 
 Some districts are responding, Mr. Cull said, by building budgets that forecast zero money from the state as a worst-case scenario, just to be safe.
 The State Board of Education on Thursday acknowledged the budget problems facing the state by recommending no increase in financing from the legislature for the next year. 
 In his State of the State address last week, Gov. Patrick J. Quinn underscored the importance of investing in education. His proposal for a graduated increase in the state income tax could provide additional education money. Still, all education financing has to be filtered through a legislature that struggled to meet obligations to the schools even before the economy deteriorated.
 ''In Illinois, we take the national recession and make it much worse on our residents because we have such an inadequate and outdated revenue system,'' said Sean Noble, government relations director for Voices for Illinois Children.
 Support from the state accounts for less than a third of the cost of educating Illinois children, according to the Center for Tax and Budget Accountability -- a level of support that has attracted criticism from education-reform groups. 
 Voices for Illinois Children and other groups are pushing for a moderate increase in the income tax, combined with a greater use of tax credits and exemptions, which Mr. Noble said would create a system that better reflected people's ability to pay while providing additional revenues. Advocates also want to expand the sales-tax base by adding service industries to the mix. 
 Budget problems have forced the state to cut back on areas in which it had previously invested -- an experience some see as a possible prelude to difficulties that could occur with Race to the Top money. Preschool education, which had been expanded over the past two decades because of research showing it is critical to a child's long-term success, has become subject to the state's annual budget tussles.
 As the recession took hold last year, amid talk that a budget impasse in Springfield would force a 32 percent cut in the state's early childhood programs, parents of some preschool students had a nail-biter summer wondering if there would be spots for their preschool-aged children in school. 
 Armando Diaz of Prospect Heights, whose 4-year-old son attends a Preschool for All class, wrote letters and pressed friends to call legislators to restore financing. 
 ''We really need this,'' Mr. Diaz said. ''We wouldn't have other options,'' for affordable preschool.
 The state eventually reduced the cuts to early childhood education to 10 percent, or about $38 million.
 The restored budgets were still not enough to save some programs. Kathleen Villano, director of a network of Preschool for All programs in the northwest suburbs of Chicago, had to sharply reduce the budget for materials and field trips. Ms. Villano also made cuts to her parent educator program, which helps families understand how to support child learning at home.
 The State Board of Education has asked the legislature to restore some early childhood financing that was eliminated in 2009 , but budget watchers warn that further cuts in education spending could come if the state's fiscal situation does not improve. 
 While the governor's office estimates the state's probable budget deficit at more than $10 billion, the nonpartisan Civic Federation puts it at more than $12 billion in the fiscal year 2011.
 ''It will remain enormously difficult for the State of Illinois to marshal resources for innovation or for increased funding for education or any other areas until it puts its financial house in order,'' said Laurence Msall, president of the Civic Federation. 
 In the face of a budget crunch, Race to the Top money could enhance some programs already under way. Illinois has started work on a data system to track students' progress over their school careers, and Governor Quinn signed a measure last week that ties teacher evaluations to improvements in student performance. 
 Even so, uncertainty about the program and concerns about the reliability of federal financing are giving pause to some school districts. 
 Joseph J. Majchrowicz, superintendent of Sunnybrook District 171 in south suburban Lansing, said the district decided not to apply for Race to the Top money, in part because of concerns about basing teacher and administrator evaluations on student test scores. Limitations on use of the grants meant Race to the Top money would not address District 171's most pressing needs: plugging holes in the budget and adding to the staff.
 The school district made its decision even in the face of broad-based budget reductions. District 171 cut all extracurricular activities for the 2009-10 school year, and parents are now organizing support for a tax increase to help with the district's budget problems.
 ''At best, my state aid will be flat lined next year,'' Mr. Majchrowicz said. ''I'm frightened. Terrified is probably a better word.''
 Some districts signed on to Race to the Top, but are not yet fully committed to participating. 
 Knowing they might face a $60 million hole in his district's budget for next year, Jose M. Torres, superintendent of District U-46 in Elgin, said his district would continue with the program only if it was comfortable with whatever strings were attached to the Race to the Top money and what resources would be involved.
 ''If we believe the pain is not worth the gain,'' Mr. Torres said, ''we may not follow through.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Kathy Villano, director of a network of Preschool for All programs, had to make cuts because of state budget difficulties. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN KONSTANTARAS/CHICAGO NEWS COOPERATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION REFORM (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (88%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



498 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1735 words

HEADLINE: Declaration Of Indies: Just Sell It Yourself!

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
LAST November inside a conference room at the University of Southern California in Los Angeles, a film consultant named Peter Broderick was doing his best to foment a revolution. Mr. Broderick, who helps filmmakers find their way into the marketplace, was spreading the word on an Internet-era approach to releasing movies that he believes empowers filmmakers without impoverishing them economically or emotionally. Mr. Broderick divides distribution into the Old World and New, infusing his PowerPoint presentation with insurgent rhetoric. He has written a ''declaration of independence'' for filmmakers that -- as he did that afternoon -- he reads while wearing a tricorn hat. 
 In the Old World of distribution, filmmakers hand over all the rights to their work, ceding control to companies that might soon lose interest in their new purchase for various reasons, including a weak opening weekend. (''After the first show,'' Mr. Broderick said, repeating an Old World maxim, ''we know.'') In the New World, filmmakers maintain full control over their work from beginning to end: they hold on to their rights and, as important, find people who are interested in their projects and can become patrons, even mentors. The Old World has ticket buyers. The New World has ticket buyers who are also Facebook friends. The Old World has commercials, newspapers ads and the mass audience. The New World has social media, YouTube, iTunes and niche audiences. ''Newspaper ads,'' Mr. Broderick said, ''are mostly a waste of money.'' 
 The 200 filmmakers inside the conference room laughed, soaking up Mr. Broderick's pitch as if their careers depended upon it, which perhaps they do. Independent filmmaking has never been for the faint of heart. But the consensus is that the past few years have been especially brutal. Sales have slowed, deal prices have dropped, and most of the major studios have retreated from the independent scene, closing or scaling back divisions like Warner Independent Pictures and Paramount Vantage, which released the kinds of movies that win critical hearts and awards. And good films are going unsold. Given the changes and downsizing, these might seem like worrisome times for movie lovers as well. After all, if these companies disappear, how do we find the next great American independent filmmaker, the new Jim Jarmusch, Wes Anderson 2.0? 
 For consultants like Mr. Broderick and filmmakers like Jon Reiss (the documentary ''Bomb It'') the answer lies in self-distribution, in filmmakers doing it themselves or, more accurately, doing it themselves with a little or a lot of help from other people, including consultants like Mr. Broderick and Richard Abramowitz. Last year Mr. Abramowitz, a film-industry veteran who runs an outfit in Armonk, N.Y., called Abramorama with one full-time employee (him), helped shepherd Sacha Gervasi's documentary ''Anvil! The Story of Anvil,'' about a 1970s metal band and its rebirth, into a success, with almost $700,000 at the North American box office. Consultants guide filmmakers on every angle of distribution. They can simply offer advice, but can also develop a marketing strategy, book theaters and collect the money.
 If the D.I.Y. drumbeat has grown louder in recent years, it's not only because the major studios have backed away from the independent sector. That's a factor, but there are other issues involved, among them that the economic barriers to filmmaking have never been lower. Martin Scorsese once said that John Cassavetes's first feature, ''Shadows,'' shot in the late 1950s with a 16-millimeter camera, proved to filmmakers that there were ''no more excuses,'' adding, ''If he could do it, so could we!'' Still, even in the glory years of the new American cinema movement, from the late 1960s to the mid-1970s, when the major studios appeared more open to original voices, Cassavetes had to self-distribute his 1974 masterpiece ''A Woman Under the Influence,'' which he did successfully, pulling in $6 million domestically.
 Inexpensive digital cameras and editing software have lowered the barrier for filmmakers even further. Yet even as the means of production have entered into more hands, companies -- large and small -- continue to dominate distribution. Hollywood's historical hold on resources and the terms of the conversation have made it difficult for an authentic alternative system to take root in America. The festival circuit has emerged as a de facto distribution stream for many filmmakers, yet the ad hoc world of festivals is not a substitute for real distribution. And then there's the simple fact that there are independent filmmakers who do not fit inside the Hollywood (and Hollywood-style) distribution model and do not want to. For some stubborn independents D.I.Y. distribution has at times been either the best or only option.
 In 1992, the year before Disney bought Miramax Films, thereby initiating the indie gold rush, Joe Berlinger and Bruce Sinofsky became a model for true independence when they distributed their own documentary ''Brother's Keeper'' (1992) to substantial critical and commercial success. In the years since, those entering self-distribution have included emerging talent like Andrew Bujalski (who initially sold DVDs of his 2005 film ''Mutual Appreciation'' online) and established filmmakers like David Lynch (who released his 2006 movie ''Inland Empire'' in theaters himself). As self-distributed movies have found levels of critical or commercial success or even both, others have followed, including ''The Talent Given Us,'' ''Note by Note: The Making of Steinway L1037,'' ''Ballast,''''Helvetica'' and ''Good Dick.''
 Some self-distributed titles find their audiences with help from consultants, while others make their way into the marketplace with the help of consultants and companies that take a fee, rather than a percentage of the profits and all the distribution rights. Innovative strategies abound. Mr. Broderick is an advocate of what he calls hybrid distribution, which, as he has put it, ''combines direct sales by filmmakers with distribution by third parties.'' Thus filmmakers hold on to their sales rights and sell the DVD retail rights to one buyer and the video-on-demand rights to another and so on -- rather than handing them all over to one distributor, as has been traditional. This allows filmmakers to reach audiences directly while controlling their own work and destinies, at least in theory. 
 The new D.I.Y. world is open-source in vibe and often execution. Participants refer to one another in conversation and on their Web sites and blogs, pushing other people's ideas and projects. (On his Web site, peterbroderick.com, Mr. Broderick even posts discount codes for other people's books.) But these new-era distribution participants are not engaging in blog-rolling. By sharing information and building on one another's ideas, they are in effect creating a virtual infrastructure. This infrastructure doesn't compete with Hollywood; this isn't about vying with products released by multinational corporations. It is instead about the creation and sustenance of a viable, artist-based alternative -- one that, at this stage, looks markedly different from what has often been passed off as independent cinema over the past 20 years.
 Although D.I.Y. has become shorthand for this new movement, a more complex idea of the filmmaker-audience dynamic is emerging (Mr. Reiss calls it ''a sea change''), partly as a response to the shifts in the industry, though also in reaction to the changes in theaudience or more specifically audiences. Although some viewers still enjoy the ritual of going out to see movies, others don't want to experience their entertainment in a theater, preferring to immerse themselves in a media-saturated world across a variety of platforms. ''My son,'' Mr. Reiss said, speaking by phone from Los Angeles, ''consumes media on his computer and his iPod, and he will occasionally go out to a movie theater.'' He tries to encourage his son, who's 13, to go to the movies, but finds it tough. ''He would rather interact with media on his computer than anywhere else.''
 One of the buzzy ideas in D.I.Y. is transmedia, a word borrowed from academia, in which stories -- think of the ''Star Wars'' and ''Matrix'' franchises -- unfold across different platforms. ''Star Wars'' helped expand the very idea of a movie, because it involved a constellation of movie-related products, from videogames to action figures, all of which become part of the understanding and experience of the original, originating work. This isn't just about slapping a movie logo on a lunchbox or a screensaver: it's about creating an entertainment gestalt. As the theorist Henry Jenkins writes, ''Reading across the media sustains a depth of experience that motivates more consumption.'' In other words, you can sell one ticket to a moviegoer or enlist fans into media feedback loops that they in turn help create and sustain. 
 It might seem counterintuitive that D.I.Y. independents are borrowing a page from the George Lucas playbook. But only if you forget that Mr. Lucas is the most successful independent filmmaker in history. 20th Century Fox distributed the first ''Star Wars,'' yet Mr. Lucas kept the sequel and merchandising rights. ''If I make money,'' he said when the movie was released, ''it will be from the toys.'' The new generation of D.I.Y. filmmakers might not be pushing toys on their Web sites (though I'd like to see an Andrew Bujalski action figure), but they do peddle DVDs, posters, CDs, books and -- much as Spike Lee did before them -- are getting hip to selling themselves alongside their art. 
 The downside to this new D.I.Y. world is that filmmakers, who already tend to expend tremendous time and effort raising money, might end up spending more hours hawking their wares than creating new work. ''I struggle with this all the time,'' Mr. Reiss said. But artists who want to reach an audience are rarely if ever really free of the marketplace, and filmmakers working in the commercial arena tend to be even less so. For Mr. Reiss and other do-it-yourselfers, the most important thing is to reach their audiences, any which way, niche by niche, pixel by pixel, in theaters or online. ''This is the other voice of film,'' Mr. Reiss said with urgency, ''and if this dies, all we're left with is the monopoly.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Anvil! The Story of Anvil,'' left, and ''Ballast'' are two movies not distributed by a major studio. Peter Broderick, at far right, a movie consultant, encourages filmmakers to take advantage of online networks and platforms to help distribute their projects.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENT J. CRAIG/''ANVIL! THE STORY OF ANVIL''
ALLUVIAL FILM COMPANY)
 Peter Broderick (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARISA MURGATROYD)(AR16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); SOCIAL MEDIA (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (71%); PRINT ADVERTISING (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (69%); INTERNET & WWW (57%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



499 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 IN FIGHT OVER WEB, CHINA IS AT ODDS WITH ITS FUTURE
 Google may rank a distant second in China to the Baidu search engine, but there is serious alarm over Google's threat to leave China among its future elite, the younger, better-educated citizens. PAGE 12 
 RIO FOCUSES ON SECURITY 
 The police in Rio de Janeiro plan to invade 40 of the city's most violent slums and establish a permanent presence before Brazil hosts the 2014 soccer World Cup, Rio State officials said. PAGE 6 
 IRAQIS FORM SECULAR BLOC
 Prominent Iraqi politicians announced the formation of what might emerge as the country's most powerful secular coalition in parliamentary elections in March. PAGE 8
 TESTIMONY BY 3 GUARDS
 Three employees of Blackwater Worldwide who were on the scene when at least 17 Iraqi civilians were killed by other Blackwater guards said they believed the shootings were unjustified, according to newly unsealed court documents. PAGE 8
 STEP TOWARD IRAN SANCTIONS
 Six major powers agreed that the United Nations Security Council should consider imposing further sanctions against Iran because of its nuclear program. PAGE 9 
 National
 FOCUS ON FAMILY'S FOUNDER TO START NEW RADIO SHOW
 Dr. James Dobson, the founder of Focus on the Family and an influential voice for Christian conservatives, plans to depart from the organization he created to start a radio show that will give him greater leeway to talk politics. PAGE 16
 PREPARING FOR THE OLYMPICS
 For nearly six years a group of as many as 150 government officials from dozens of security agencies have been meeting in Washington State to discuss how to prepare for the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver. PAGE 16
 POLITICKING HEALTH CARE
 As Democrats merge the Senate and House health care overhauls into a final bill, Republicans are devising ways to convert it into political capital. Prescriptions by Katharine Q. Seelye. PAGE 23 
 New York
 THE THEATER OF LIFE ON A 27-MINUTE CYCLE
 The Clean Rite laundromat in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn, sits in one of those working-class to middle-class neighborhoods. And in a city of renters, the Clean Rite is the scene of all sorts of quotidian dramas. PAGE 1 
 Sports
 ADIDAS TAKES NEXT STEP BY ADVISING TENNIS PLAYERS
 An unusual consultancy program created by Adidas seeks to protect the company's investment in increasingly young athletes who sometimes lack structure and expert advice. Adidas has contracts with more than 40 tennis players in the singles draws at the Australian Open, which begins Monday. PAGE 1
 A SUPERNATURAL GAME PLAN
 After the Jets hit a midseason slump, Mark Williamson, a lifelong Jets fan, hired a witch in Manhattan in an effort to help the team right their listing ship. Sports of The Times by George Vecsey. PAGE 3
 Sunday Business
 NEW CREDIT CARD RULES AND RELUCTANT REGULATORS
 Companies will no doubt work to mitigate the effects of new regulations on credit cards. So regulators will need to react forcefully. But don't get your hopes up. Fair Game by Gretchen Morgenson. PAGE 1 
 WHEN SOAP IS SUPERFLUOUS
 Plastic ''self cleaning'' coatings under development may someday bring about a moment when rendering utensils, bathroom mirrors and even factory equipment sparkling clean requires only water. Novelties by Anne Eisenberg. PAGE 2 
 Arts & Leisure
 FEAR TURNS GRAPHIC IN EUROPEAN CULTURE WAR
 All across Europe populist parties are growing, capitalizing, to an extent unknown across the Atlantic, on a very old-fashioned brand of propaganda art. It manages, if often just barely, to skirt racism laws. Abroad by Michael Kimmelman. PAGE 1 
 A REVOLUTION IN INDIE FILMS
 In the Old World of distribution, filmmakers hand over all the rights to their work. In the New World, filmmakers maintain full control over their work from beginning to end. PAGE 1 
 Book Review
 THE HIGHWAYMAN
 In ''Days Out of Days,'' Sam Shepard's new collection of stories, the narrator drives and drives, logging the names of the towns he beds down in as though reciting a roll call of the dead. PAGE 1
 Week in Review
 SHH. DON'T NOT TELL ANYONE
 A compendium of secrets spilled by intimates ducking behind a veil of anonymity, ''Game Change,'' by John Heilemann and Mark Halperin, is also a bracing testament to the potential foolishness of trust and the rareness of discretion. PAGE 1
 Magazine
 STOPPING THE NEXT ONE
 Peter Baker, a reporter for The New York Times, takes an inside look at President Obama's struggle to remake antiterrorism policy. PAGE 30
 Automobiles
 ELECTRICITY IN THE AIR
 Automakers seem to agree that affordable battery vehicles will rescue the industry. At the North American International Auto Show in Detroit, manufacturers took turns declaring a desire to seize electric-car leadership. SPORTSSUNDAY, PAGE 10 
 Travel
 IN FIJI, DANCING WITH SHARKS
 Shark diving in Fiji offers a fairly certain chance of seeing what any honest diver will admit yearning for: lots and lots of big fish. PAGE 6 
 36 Hours: Whistler, B.C. Page 12
 Sunday Styles
 NO LONGER A GOLDEN TICKET
 Lawyers just entering the field -- as recently as a few years ago -- could reasonably expect a life of comfort, security and social esteem. But many associates are now faced with a different landscape. PAGE 1 
 Editorial
 THE SHOW MUST NOT GO ON
 Serious investigative work is the only way for the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission to counter the big banks' political power and alter the course of a reform effort that is headed in the wrong direction. Week In Review, Page 7
 ACTIONS ON SCHOOL REFORM
 The president of the nation's second-largest teachers' union, Randi Weingarten, has offered a proposal to improve teacher evaluation systems. Now that she has talked the talk, she should walk the walk. Week In Review, Page 7
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD
 The odd case: Ted Olson and David Boies team up to fight Proposition 8. Week In Review, Page 8
 FRANK RICH
 Sarah Palin and Michael Steele find a recession-proof source of profits in the Tea Party movement. Week In Review, Page 8
 PUBLIC EDITOR
 Five recent editor's notes in The New York Times highlight the need for journalists to be alert to the outside interests of expert sources. Week In Review, Page 8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ATHLETES (89%); TENNIS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); OLYMPICS (86%); SECURITY GUARD SERVICES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); CONSERVATISM (75%); TESTIMONY (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (72%); SLUM DWELLINGS (71%); POLICE FORCES (71%); ELECTIONS (71%); FAMILY (71%); SOCCER (70%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (70%); WINTER SPORTS (70%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (69%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (69%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); WINTER OLYMPICS (64%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (63%); CREDIT CARDS (60%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%)

COMPANY: ACADEMI LLC (93%); GOOGLE INC (93%); BAIDU INC (93%); ADIDAS AG (86%)

ORGANIZATION: FOCUS ON THE FAMILY (55%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%); K3SD (SGX) (93%); BIDU (NASDAQ) (93%); ADS (FRA) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561612 SECURITY GUARDS & PATROL SERVICES (93%); NAICS561611 INVESTIGATION SERVICES (93%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (93%); NAICS315210 CUT & SEW APPAREL CONTRACTORS (86%); SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (92%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (74%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (74%) CHINA (95%); BRAZIL (93%); IRAQ (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (79%); CANADA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



500 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 105 words

HEADLINE: THE CHATTER

 BODY:
''Hello, my name is Conan O'Brien, and I may soon be available for children's parties.'' 
 Mr. O'Brien, host of ''The Tonight Show,'' said he would not go along with NBC's plan to push it back a half-hour to make room for Jay Leno.
 ''That is the American way -- to expand without really thinking.''
 Lydia Esparza, co-owner of a small and very popular Chicago pizza shop that chooses to stay small.
 ''Whatever we did, it didn't work out well. We regret the consequence that people have lost money.''
 Lloyd C. Blankfein, chairman of Goldman Sachs, testifying about the financial crisis before a commission established by Congress.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: CONAN O'BRIEN (90%); JAY LENO (57%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



501 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (NBC) THE 67TH ANNUAL GOLDEN GLOBE AWARDSRicky Gervais puts his comic sensibilities on display as host of this ceremony, sponsored by the Hollywood Foreign Press Association, honoring achievement in film and television and seen by some as a forecast of the Academy Awards. Nominees in the drama category include ''Avatar,'' ''The Hurt Locker,'' ''Inglourious Basterds,'' ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire'' and ''Up in the Air'' for best motion picture; Emily Blunt, Sandra Bullock, Helen Mirren, Carey Mulligan and Gabourey Sidibe for best actress; and Jeff Bridges, George Clooney, Colin Firth, Morgan Freeman and Tobey Maguire for best actor. In the comedy or musical category, Meryl Streep competes against herself with best actress nominations for ''It's Complicated'' and ''Julie & Julia,'' which are both also up for best picture. Martin Scorsese will receive the Cecil B. DeMille Award for outstanding contribution to the entertainment field. Mavis Spencer, the daughter of the actress Alfre Woodard and the writer and producer Roderick Spencer, is Miss Golden Globe. Billy Bush and Natalie Morales will stake out the red carpet at the Beverly Hills Hilton at 7; Nick Cannon will provide commentary from the wrap party at midnight. 
 10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Brit Hume will interview Lt. Gen. Ken Keen, head of the Haiti Task Force, and Rajiv Shah, administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, about relief efforts in Haiti after Tuesday's earthquake. General Keen and Mr. Shah will also appear on ''This Week'' at 10 on ABC and, at 10:30, ''Face the Nation'' on CBS and ''Meet the Press'' on NBC.
 1 P.M. (Fox) N.F.C. DIVISIONAL PLAYOFF GAME The Dallas Cowboys go up against the Minnesota Vikings at the Hubert H. Humphrey Metrodome. In the A.F.C. Divisional Playoff Game, at 4:30 on CBS, the New York Jets face off against the San Diego Chargers at QualComm Stadium.
 8 P.M. (Fox) HUMAN TARGET Based on the DC Comics graphic novel of the same title, this new series witnesses the escapades of Christopher Chance (Mark Valley, above), a security expert who sells his protective services to those whose lives need saving. But when ''normal'' modes don't work, he completely integrates himself into his clients' daily routines and becomes the target himself. Chi McBride plays Winston, Chance's business partner; Jackie Earle Haley is Guerrero, his hired gun. In this premiere episode Chance -- who has enough deep, dark secrets to be willing to gamble with his own life -- watches over the engineer of a high-speed train on its inaugural journey to California.
 8 P.M. (LMN) THE WRONGED MAN (2010) In this adaptation of a true story, Julia Ormond plays Janet Gregory, a single mother and paralegal struggling with doubts about the guilt of Calvin Willis (Mahershalalhashbaz Ali), a husband and father accused of assaulting a neighborhood girl. Finally convinced of his innocence, she battles the justice system and accomplishes the nearly impossible: the overturning of Mr. Willis's sentence after 22 years in the Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola. A public service announcement about the Innocence Project, an organization that works to exonerate wrongfully convicted people through DNA testing and that assisted in the case of Mr. Willis, will be shown after the movie.
 9 P.M. (HBO) BIG LOVE Forget prophethood. Bill (Bill Paxton) has bigger plans: to run against the rabid polygamy opponent Roy Colburn (Tom Amandes) for the vacant Utah State Senate seat. Meanwhile, Joey (Shawn Doyle) and Wanda (Melora Walters) return to Juniper Creek, where a suspicious J J (Zeljko Ivanek) is lurking. Sarah (Amanda Seyfried) and Scott (Aaron Paul) opt for a civil ceremony in her father's church. And Dale (Ben Koldyke) tries to stay clear of Alby (Matt Ross).
 9 P.M. (Fox) 24 ''Day 8'' finds Jack Bauer (Kiefer Sutherland) in New York City -- and back in the homeland-security business -- when he is unwittingly drawn into a plot to assassinate Omar Hassan (Anil Kapoor), the leader of the fictional Islamic Republic of Kamistan, during peace negotiations with President Allison Taylor (Cherry Jones) and her new chief of staff, Rob Weiss (Chris Diamantopoulos). The Counter Terrorist Unit veterans Renee Walker (Annie Wersching) and Chloe O'Brian (Mary Lynn Rajskub) are joined by the newcomers Dana Walsh (Katee Sackhoff), Arlo Glass (John Boyd), Brian Hastings (Mykelti Williamson) and Cole Ortiz (Freddie Prinze Jr.). Part 2 of this season premiere will be shown on Monday at 8. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (87%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (86%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (85%); SPORTS (85%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); FILM (78%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (76%); WRITERS (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); TOURNAMENTS (66%); EXPERT WITNESSES (64%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); QUALCOMM INC (52%); DC ENTERTAINMENT INC (51%)

TICKER: QCOM (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (51%)

PERSON: COLIN FIRTH (79%); MERYL STREEP (58%); HELEN MIRREN (57%); SANDRA BULLOCK (57%); GEORGE CLOONEY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (68%) HAITI (86%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



502 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2286 words

HEADLINE: NBC's Slide From TV's Heights To Troubled Nightly Punch Line

BYLINE: By TIM ARANGO; Brooks Barnes, Bill Carter and Edward Wyatt contributed reporting.

 BODY:
At its height, NBC was the very model of what a television network should be. With iconic programming, enviable ratings and spectacular business success, the peacock network delivered plenty of laughs along the way with ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Seinfeld'' and ''Friends.''
 Nobody is laughing anymore.
 Today the network is in shambles, brought down not just by the challenges facing broadcast television -- fragmenting audiences, an advertising downturn -- but also by a series of executive missteps that have made its prime-time lineup a perennial loser and, most recently, turned its late night programming schedule into a media circus that threatens the lucrative ''Tonight Show'' franchise. 
 ''We live in a society today that loves a soap opera,'' Jeff Zucker, the chief executive of NBC Universal, said in an interview in his office at 30 Rockefeller Plaza in New York on Friday. ''Three months ago it was David Letterman. Six weeks ago it was Tiger Woods's problems. Today it's NBC's problems.''
 And this is all happening as the company itself is in transition, waiting for regulators in Washington to approve a sale of NBC Universal from General Electric to Comcast, the nation's largest cable operator. By the time G.E. finally decided to wash its hands of NBC late last year, the network ranked low on the list of those parts of the company most valuable to Comcast, which will swallow the network mainly so it can acquire the company's money-making cable channels, like USA, Bravo, Syfy.
 Indeed, even though NBC's news division remains highly profitable, the network's overall finances are crumbling -- less than a decade ago, according to Bob Wright, the former chief executive of NBC Universal, the network generated over $1 billion in profit for its parent, G.E. 
 This year, mainly because of high costs associated with broadcasting next month's Winter Olympics, the network is expected to lose more than $100 million, according to a person briefed on the network's finances who insisted on anonymity. The company does not break out financial figures for the network. (In 2009, the network made a few hundred million dollars, and represented about 10 percent of NBC Universal's operating profit.)
 All of the networks are dealing with economic pressures, but NBC's competitors have proved more deft at managing the challenges and creating hits, even as their profits have declined.
 How did things go so wrong at NBC?
 The network's long fall from grace, particularly in prime time, culminated over the last decade. But most recently it has been visible in the public squabble over moving Jay Leno's talk show out of the 10 p.m. weeknight slot, where he has foundered in the ratings, and back to 11:35 p.m. The move will effectively end Conan O'Brien's seven-month stint as host of ''The Tonight Show,'' as he is refusing to go along with a move to 12:05 a.m. 
 The controversy kicked off days of public recriminations, with just about every comic with a talk show taking swipes at NBC, Mr. Leno, Mr. Zucker and everything else on the menu.
 ''Now they have a situation that -- I've never seen anything like it,'' said Fred Silverman, the only person who has overseen programming at three networks -- NBC, CBS and ABC. ''The hosts are sniping at NBC, and at Zucker, and they both are mad at each other. It's a corporate embarrassment.'' He called the idea of moving Mr. Leno back to 11:35 p.m. a ''Mickey Mouse scheme.'' (Mr. Silverman agreed with the original idea of moving Mr. Leno to 10 p.m.)
 A Bet Backfires
 At NBC, it has been an unseemly spectacle for a company that prides itself on a smooth corporate culture, and the disastrous culmination of a high-stakes gamble last year by Mr. Zucker to move Mr. Leno to the 10 p.m. slot, passing ''The Tonight Show'' to the younger Mr. O'Brien and saving money that the network would have spent on scripted dramas at 10 p.m. 
 But the ratings sank, and affiliates that relied on 10 p.m. to lead in to the late local news rebelled. And Mr. O'Brien's ''Tonight Show'' did poorly in his time slot, losing resoundingly to ''Late Show With David Letterman'' on CBS for the first time in 15 years. 
 ''At the end of the day Jay at 10 o'clock didn't work,'' Mr. Zucker said, ''and I take responsibility for that.''
 Mr. Zucker said that it was during a phone call in the first week of January from Jeff Gaspin, NBC Universal's head of entertainment, that he learned that the network's affiliates were threatening to pre-empt the Leno show. ''It was becoming tough to deal with,'' Mr. Zucker said. ''The pressure from the affiliate body was strong.''
 Mr. Gaspin's idea was to move Mr. O'Brien's show to 12:05 a.m., and give Mr. Leno a half-hour show at 11:35 p.m. ''That's what he wanted to do, and I said, O.K., give it a shot,'' Mr. Zucker said. The shot exploded in their faces.
 In prime time, the story of the last decade has been NBC's inability to create any big hits to replace those of its late-1990s glory years -- especially ''Seinfeld,'' ''Friends'' and ''E.R.'' This period has coincided with the rise of Mr. Zucker, who in 2000 was promoted from executive producer of ''Today'' to entertainment chief for the entire network. Some of its recent shows, like ''The Office'' and ''30 Rock,'' are critical successes but garner only relatively small audiences.
 NBC's prime-time schedule started to slip before Mr. Zucker took over, Mr. Silverman noted. ''But what could have fixed it was not a lot of tricks,'' said Mr. Silverman, mentioning some of Mr. Zucker's moves, like expanding ''Friends'' to about 40 minutes. ''What could have reduced the downward trend was a couple of hit shows.''
 NBC's financial and ratings slide has been overshadowed by the corporate universe in which it resides: the profit-generating capacity of its sister cable channels has allowed Mr. Zucker to claim success even as the network has floundered.
 The latest late-night gyrations have only heightened the sense that the organization is careening. (Jon Stewart, on ''The Daily Show,'' recently remarked: ''At least we don't have to deal with Jeff Zucker. That guy's like the Cheney of television, shooting shows in the face.'')
 ''I think part of why there's been such a visceral reaction to this is we've talked about change and taking risks, and that's something I've always been associated with,'' Mr. Zucker said. ''And not being afraid to take chances.''
 At the end of the interview in Mr. Zucker's office, Steve Capus, the head of NBC News, spoke up strongly on behalf of his boss, saying the news media had blown the late-night ordeal ''out of proportion,'' especially, he said, in light of more important stories like the tragedy in Haiti. ''He is paying a price that is so out of whack with what is happening here,'' he said.
 A New Age
 When David Sarnoff, the founder of NBC, then a part of the Radio Corporation of America, stood at the New York World's Fair in 1939 in Flushing Meadows to introduce television to the world, he said: ''It is with a feeling of humbleness that I come to this moment of announcing the birth in this country of a new art so important in its implications that it is bound to affect all society. It is an art which shines like a torch of hope in a troubled world. It is a creative force which we must learn to utilize for the benefit of all mankind.''
 With that moment, Mr. Sarnoff ushered in not just a new communications form for the masses, but also the first broadcast network, NBC, which would become a cultural force in America. At that same World's Fair, Americans got their first televised glimpses of a president, Franklin D. Roosevelt. Later that year, an NBC station broadcast major league baseball for the first time. 
 The RCA Building and its NBC Studios were the centerpiece of Rockefeller Center in New York, placing the network near the pinnacle of American corporate prestige and power. 
 Along the way, the network created cultural touchstones like the comedy-variety show, giving a platform to stars like Milton Berle, Dean Martin and Bob Hope. Its news division started the ''Today'' show in 1952 as the first early morning network news program. ''Meet the Press'' began in 1947 and is the longest-running program on TV.
 For those growing up in the 1950s and 1960s, the three networks -- NBC, ABC and CBS -- were the driving forces of how they understood the world. ''It was the type of place you aspired to be a part of,'' said Tom Wolzein, who worked at NBC from 1976 to 1991 and is now a media consultant. ''As a child of the '60s, if you wanted to work in media, you aspired to NBC, or CBS.
 ''You had three choices. That was what defined the nation.''
 During the 1980s and 1990s, the network produced numerous prime-time shows with cultural endurance -- like ''The Cosby Show,'' which first appeared in 1984 and lifted the network out of a ratings downturn, and later sitcoms like ''Seinfeld'' and ''Friends'' and dramas like ''E.R.''
 Today, with prime-time lineups littered with cheaply produced reality fare -- NBC's highest-rated entertainment show in prime time these days is the weight loss program ''The Biggest Loser'' -- many lament that networks no longer produce shows with enduring social value. ''The Cosby Show,'' for example, has been credited by many academics with altering racial attitudes with its portrayal of a happy, upper-middle-class black family. Some -- like the former George W. Bush strategist Karl Rove -- have gone so far as to say the show succeeded in changing racial stereotypes enough to make a Barack Obama candidacy possible. 
 These days, Mr. Cosby said in a telephone interview, the show would never make it on the air. ''It would be rejected,'' he said. ''Any idea of it would be rejected.''
 Even in the 1980s, he said, he faced skepticism about the future of sitcoms -- not unlike today's prevailing wisdom. ''Sitcoms were dead,'' he said. ''That's what the geniuses said at the time.''
 An Industry's Slide
 The successes at NBC in the late 1980s and 1990s came at the beginning of a long slide in the fortunes of network television over all, as ratings sank with the advent of cable, as audiences fragmented as new entertainment choices like video games and the Internet proliferated, and as costs for scripted programming skyrocketed. In the 1952-53 season, more than 30 percent of American households watched NBC during prime time, according to Nielsen. Today that figure is roughly 5 percent.
 The network television model -- attracting millions of dollars in advertising to support the high cost of scripted shows, which now run about $3 million an hour -- appears broken. Cable networks, meanwhile, have flourished because they rely on two big revenue streams: advertising and subscriber fees from cable companies.
 The other major broadcast networks -- CBS, ABC and Fox -- have all seen their profits decline in recent years, as ratings have dropped. But none have fallen harder than NBC. CBS has thrived, in relative terms, with shows like the ''CSI'' franchise and ''NCIS.'' ABC has treaded water, while Fox has benefited from the lucrative run of ''American Idol.''
 To fix the prime-time woes, NBC, under Mr. Gaspin, plans to spend more on development. It has deals with producers like J. J. Abrams, Jerry Bruckheimer and Brian Grazer. It made 11 pilots last year and plans to increase that number to 20 this year. ''I'm not trying to reinvent right now,'' Mr. Gaspin said. ''I'm really going back to basics.''
 NBC hitched its future to cable with the 2004 deal to merge with Vivendi Universal Entertainment -- which also gave NBC a big movie studio. That deal was engineered by Mr. Wright. After taking over as president in 1986, he almost immediately began plotting how to tie NBC's fortunes to the then-emerging medium of cable television. 
 In one of his first meetings with division presidents, he asked the group, according to someone who was there, ''What would happen if we put the network on cable?'' People at the table looked dumbfounded. ''People were deriding CNN, saying it wouldn't make it,'' this person said. 
 Mr. Wright, in an interview, said: ''I'm very happy with NBC Universal, with the cable channels. That's my creation as much as anyone else's.''
 After G.E. bought NBC, the network entered a period of both ratings and financial success, and a time of expansion, internationally and into cable. ''It was a time of diversifying NBC, because when G.E. took over it was a network and five stations,'' said Tom Rogers, the chief executive of TiVo, who worked at NBC from 1986 to 1999, where he oversaw the company's cable businesses.
 Mr. Wright added, ''I'm very disappointed that they are losing Conan, who is very talented. To get squeezed out like that is very tough. They could have done it another way.''
 The problems in late night have once again raised questions in Hollywood about Mr. Zucker's tenure. 
 Once the deal with Comcast closes, Mr. Zucker is to report to Stephen B. Burke, the former Disney and ABC executive who is president of Comcast. During the deal talks last year, Mr. Zucker signed a three-year contract extension, but rumors have swirled that he could leave after the deal closes. (Mr. Zucker declined to comment on his future. He said he called Mr. Burke before the late-night shuffle to notify him.) Comcast has declined to speak publicly about the latest problems at NBC.
 Mr. Wright, who stepped down as chief executive of NBC Universal in 2007, says he has watched his former company's fate with sadness. 
 ''The issue of the notoriety, with the sale, and the collapse, it makes me feel terrible,'' he said. ''These cards are playing themselves now. The way out is the sale to Comcast.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeff Zucker (A1)
In 1939, David Sarnoff, left, began NBC, which later thrived with the Carson-McMahon ''Tonight Show,'' below left. Strife over changes with Jay Leno, below, and Conan O'Brien, right, troubles the former NBC president Bob Wright, below right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NBC, VIA REUTERS
JUSTIN LUBIN/NBC
PAUL DRINKWATER/NBC
BILL WILBUR/NBC UNIVERSAL)
''The Texaco Star Theater'' was the top-rated show at the beginning of the 1950s, but it gave way to CBS's ''I Love Lucy'' and ''Gunsmoke,'' which shared the top spot for much of the decade.
Despite some popular shows like ''The Rockford Files'' and ''Little House on the Prairie,'' NBC lost ground throughout the 1970s.
''The Cosby Show'' led ratings from 1985 to 1989.
Shows like ''Seinfeld,'' E.R.'' and ''Friends'' helped NBC in the late 1990s. (A22) GRAPHICS: More Than a Rough Patch: Although all major networks' ratings have slid over the years, NBC has suffered worse than others. In prime time, it has not been this far behind the ratings leader -- currently CBS -- in more than 15 years.
 NBC has also lost its lead in the late-night ratings. (Source: The Nielsen Company) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (78%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); APPROVALS (66%); OLYMPICS (61%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (94%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (94%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (94%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: DAVID LETTERMAN (73%); CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); JAY LENO (58%); TIGER WOODS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



503 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 17, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: Showdowns Jan. 10-16

 BODY:
THE NEWSPresident Obama called for a new tax to be levied for at least a decade on about 50 of the largest financial institutions, ''to recover every single dime the American people are owed'' for the bailout of Wall Street. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS The announcement, a day after a special commission publicly grilled top bankers over the causes of the financial meltdown, tapped into simmering popular anger at Wall Street's return to soaring profits and bonuses. After Mr. Obama chided the banks in some of his harshest terms to date, a top industry lobbyist called the whole thing ''strictly political.'' 
 THE NEWS After uncovering what it said were attempts by hackers in China to penetrate its computers and steal information on human rights activists, Google said it would stop cooperating with Chinese Internet censorship and consider shutting down its operations there altogether. 
 BEHIND THE NEWS Google is far from the only Western company that has become increasingly unhappy with Chinese government policies, though its decision to stand up to Beijing was highly unusual. The company said it would try to reach a new deal with the government to lift censorship of its Chinese site, google.cn.
 Google's stance won applause around the world from free speech advocates and prominent voices in business, technology and on both the political left and right. But Beijing was not amused: It publicly admonished all Internet companies doing business in China to follow the country's laws, suggesting the government would not give ground. 
 After Google's announcement, restrictions appeared to be loosened on google.cn, and taboo topics like ''Tiananmen incident'' and ''Tibetan independence'' were among the most popular searches by Chinese users. But by week's end the clamps were back on.
 THE NEWS In the last days before a special election in Massachusetts on Tuesday to fill the Senate seat left open after the death of Edward M. Kennedy, some surveys said the race was a dead heat.
 BEHIND THE NEWSMartha Coakley, the Democratic state attorney general, was widely expected to win, given her party's 3-to-1 advantage among voters. But a Republican challenger, Scott Brown, tapped into public qualms about the health care bill and received a flood of out-of-state financial support. Loss of the seat would deny Democrats the 60th vote they need to end filibusters.
 THE NEWS Michael W. Hicks of Clifton, N.J., is pulled aside by security agents and frisked every time he travels, his parents say, even though Mikey, as he is known, is only 8 years old.
 BEHIND THE NEWS They said airline workers told them they had no choice because Mikey was on a Transportation Security Administration watch list. The T.S.A. says it is updating its lists, and that airlines can ignore name matches that flag young children. Mikey's mother is not amused: ''It's quite clear that he is 8 years old, and while he may have terroristic tendencies at home, he does not have those on a plane.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GETTY IMAGES
JASON LEE/REUTERS
DARREN MCCOLLESTER/GETTY IMAGES
 FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENSORSHIP (88%); FILIBUSTER (88%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (74%); TAX INCREASES (73%); INTERNET & WWW (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (63%); AIRLINES (60%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (60%); CHILDREN (60%); HUMAN RIGHTS (54%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); POLLS & SURVEYS (50%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (95%); T SA AUTOMOTIVE COMPONENTS (60%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (95%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (95%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TED KENNEDY (54%); SCOTT BROWN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); TIBET (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010



504 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Pay Rises For Leaders Of Colleges, Survey Says

BYLINE: By JACQUES STEINBERG

 BODY:
Many of the nation's public universities eliminated courses and raised tuition last year, but the salaries and benefits of their presidents continued to rise, though at a slower rate than in years past, a new study has found.
 In its ninth annual examination of the pay of 185 public university leaders, The Chronicle of Higher Education reported Monday that the median rose to $436,111 in 2008-9, an increase of 2.3 percent when compared with the year before. (When adjusted for inflation, The Chronicle said, the median increase was 1.1 percent.) 
 By contrast, in the previous four years, The Chronicle said, public university leaders' salaries and benefits rose, on average, by at least 7.5 percent each year, and, in 2005, by 19 percent.
 Jeffrey J. Selingo, editor of The Chronicle, said in a statement that while the increases of past years had ''riled parents, students and politicians,'' it was most likely ''the bad economy and the fiscal crisis facing many states'' that ''finally put a halt to these large pay increases.''
 The Chronicle said that ''for the first time in recent history,'' the base salaries of the leaders of more than one-third of the institutions surveyed ''stopped growing'' last year, and that 10 percent of the presidents received less compensation over all than they did a year earlier.
 Still, the largest compensation packages are unlikely to provide much comfort to students and families that have seen tuition rise or financial aid fall, or to professors who may have received pay cuts or even lost their jobs.
 As in 2008, E. Gordon Gee, president of Ohio State University, topped the Chronicle's ranking for 2009, with an annual compensation package valued at nearly $1.6 million. 
 He was followed by Mark A. Emmert of the University of Washington ($905,000); Patrick T. Harker of the University of Delaware ($810,600); John T. Casteen III of the University of Virginia ($797,050); and Francisco G. Cigarroa of the University of Texas ($787,260).
 The Chronicle also calculated the pay of the leaders of 64 community colleges, and identified the three who were paid the most last year: Eduardo J. Padron of Miami Dade College ($548,460); Michael B. McCall of the Kentucky Community College and Technical College system ($532,910); and Orlando J. George Jr. of Delaware Technical and Community College ($450,070).
 In November, The Chronicle listed the top-earning presidents of private colleges and universities for 2007-8, and found that 23 earned over $1 million. (The highest-paid private college president, Shirley Ann Jackson of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, N.Y., received about $1.6 million.)
 At that time, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, criticized private colleges and their leaders for being out of step ''with the reality for most parents and students who are trying to pay for college in the midst of high unemployment and after savings for education were either wiped out or greatly diminished.'' 
 The salary survey did say that ''a growing number of presidents'' have given money back to their institutions and cited Mr. Gee of Ohio State among them.
 ''Last year,'' The Chronicle reported, Mr. Gee ''donated $320,850 from a university bonus to help endow a scholarship fund. This year, he paid the costs for a student majoring in music.''
 Other leaders who have rejected performance bonuses or other proposed increases in recent months, The Chronicle said, include Sally K. Mason of the University of Iowa and Gregory L. Geoffroy of Iowa State and Mary Sue Coleman of the University of Michigan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (93%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TUITION FEES (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); VOCATIONAL & TECHNICAL TRAINING (76%); LAYOFFS (73%); FAMILY (73%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (68%)

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (58%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (51%) DELAWARE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



505 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DANCE REVIEW NEW YORK CITY BALLET; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: It's All in the Telling, a Step at a Time

BYLINE: By ALASTAIR MACAULAY

 BODY:
How odd: Stories dominate this winter's repertory from New York City Ballet. This company built its international reputation as the world's foremost purveyor of plotless one-act dance works, with minimal costumes and without scenery. True, a number of narrative dramas have been integral to its popularity, notably George Balanchine's 1949 production of ''Firebird'' and his 1954 one of ''The Nutcracker.'' Yet never has it presented so high a proportion of full-length narrative ballets as during the current November-to-February season: ''The Nutcracker,'' ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' ''Romeo + Juliet,'' ''The Sleeping Beauty'' and ''Swan Lake,'' each armed with a variety of costumes and decors. 
 Now ''Short Stories,'' the new triple bill that had its first performance on Saturday night, gives us not just more narratives but the most distinguished designs of the season. Oliver Smith's decor for ''Fancy Free,'' Georges Rouault's for ''Prodigal Son'' and Marc Chagall's for ''Firebird'' are among the most distinguished sets in dance history, with images that project powerfully in a theater and in the memory; never detract from the dancing; and combine color, shape and space in ways that beautifully repay revisiting. And the scores of these three ballets are even finer: Leonard Bernstein's for ''Fancy Free,'' Sergei Prokofiev's for ''Prodigal Son'' and Igor Stravinsky's for ''Firebird.'' 
 The first two of these ballets are choreographic classics, found in many other repertories, though their choreographers particularly nurtured successive City Ballet casts. The Balanchine ''Firebird'' is riveting in its storytelling, even when he does something quite different with the Stravinsky score from what Mikhail Fokine did in the 1910 original. In too many respects on Saturday, however, these three ballets failed to leap out of history and into the present tense. 
 In ''Firebird'' the monsters aren't remotely serious and seem to draw no vital juice from the music. Jonathan Stafford is a polite and amiable but pallid Prince Ivan. In almost 35 years I don't remember a less prodigal interpreter of the title role of ''Prodigal Son'' than the elegant, courteous and contained Joaquin De Luz. The three young sailors of ''Fancy Free'' -- Tyler Angle, Robert Fairchild, Daniel Ulbricht -- are endearing and musical in small details, but not incisive in weight, stretch or timing. Their performances would register better in a theater half the size of the David H. Koch. 
 For the women the program is better. Georgina Pazcoguin, Tiler Peck and Kaitlyn Gilliland are each perfectly individual and distinct as the passers-by of ''Fancy Free''; Ms. Peck, who has a duet with Mr. Angle, makes hers a touchingly multifaceted character and times her big moments as if etching them, even at high speed, deep into the music. The Siren in ''Prodigal Son'' is a most becoming role for Maria Kowroski. Though in one passage on Saturday one of her feet caused her several slight near-stumbles, she is slim, statuesque, gorgeous and sly.
 As the Firebird in Balanchine's ballet of that name, Ashley Bouder shows the many ways in which she has recently advanced. Long a prodigious technician, she is now becoming an upper-body dancer of distinction and imagination, relishing the many different wing beats and backbends that this part affords. She keeps finding more moments of suspension within a role: not static balances (which can be a stale effect) but the unexpected pauses that give new shape to a larger phrase. At one moment on Saturday she took time to descend slowly from point, so that you could see the toes and sole of her foot establish contact with the floor. This is the kind of luscious stylistic touch that teachers often request of dancers but that seldom makes an impression in the theater. (Those of us who remember Natalia Makarova's Giselle recall this as one of its definitive features. The ballerina seemed to return to the floor out of choice rather than because of gravity.)
 Since Ms. Bouder is now at such an impressive stage of accomplishment, it's worth belaboring the main drawback of her performances: She makes too much of looking straight out at the audience (as if at the mirror) with a fixed expression. As the Firebird she does so with her chin tucked emphatically down, which means she throws baleful glances at us (or the mirror) in the stagey old manner of Russian ballerinas playing the Black Swan anti-heroine of ''Swan Lake.'' This problem is not peculiar to Ms. Bouder of course. How many dancers, inside ballet and out of it, keep showing us not how they think they appear in the looking glass but how they actually regard it, with special angles of head and neck?
 It's astonishing how much freer Ms. Bouder becomes, throughout her whole upper body, when the choreography asks her to look elsewhere. Even her neck seems to become twice as long. I hope she learns how many expressive diagonals there are for a dancer's eyes to address the auditorium. 
 Andrews Sill conducted with tame efficiency. I found myself noticing academic points in the scores -- notably details in which Stravinsky not only cut his original 1910 ''Firebird'' score for this 1945 version but also reorchestrated it -- without ever being struck by the many ways in which all three works can be great theater. Nor does Mr. Sill seem to know how to have moment-by-moment accord with the dancers. 
 I fear that this winter season of narrative ballets may prove one in which City Ballet too often looks much the same as too many other ballet companies. Doubtless there are economic reasons for this. (Storytelling draws crowds.) And the spring season is expected to be quite the opposite, with eight premieres, four of them using commissioned scores. This winter, however, City Ballet is trying to keep up with the Joneses, not always successfully.
 New York City Ballet continues its winter season through Feb. 28 at the David H. Koch Theater, Lincoln Center; (212) 870-5570; nycballet.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Short Stories, featuring Ashley Bouder in ''Firebird,'' for New York City Ballet at the David H. Koch Theater.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL KOLNIK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (91%); DANCE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); THEATER (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



506 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: Expanding Medicaid in the Health Bill

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 ''Health Reform, the States and Medicaid'' (editorial, Jan. 10) explained the value of expanding Medicaid, and rightly called for the House's higher eligibility limits. Medicaid offers more comprehensive benefits at a cost low-income people can afford, and enlarging Medicaid is a less costly way to provide coverage than subsidizing private insurance premiums. 
 Congress should recognize the realities of strained state budgets and disparities among states, but it must keep its eye on the ball. Providing affordable coverage for low-income Americans is not just ''one of the important goals'' of reform, as you say; it should be the top priority. After all, reform should aid those who need help the most, and Medicaid is a proven and cost-effective way to do so. The larger the expansion, the better reform will meet that goal. 
 Margaret A. Murray Chief Executive, Association for Community Affiliated Plans Washington, Jan. 11, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Senator Ben Nelson's offer to include all states in Nebraska's health reform ''deal'' is a symptom of, not a solution to, the Medicaid financing problem. 
 You highlight real difficulties in adjusting federal Medicaid financing to the needs of low-benefit states and those most fiscally distressed by the economic downturn. But patchwork measures will not correct the interstate inequities in Medicaid eligibility, benefits and payment rates. 
 Fundamental changes are needed in the formula for federal assistance, to adjust appropriately for state income, size of the poor population, cost of living and medical care costs. We have proposed such a method, called ''Equal Burden for Equal Benefit,'' which could enable every state to provide an adequate level of benefits at an affordable share of state taxpayer income.
 Congress should strengthen an existing provision in the House bill to call for a full review of Medicaid financing and direct the Government Accountability Office (and/or the newly formed Medicaid and CHIP Payment and Access Commission) to propose such fundamental financing alternatives. 
 Thomas Grannemann Mark Pauly Boston, Jan. 10, 2010
 Mr. Grannemann is associate regional administrator for the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services in Boston. He is expressing his personal opinion based only on the public record. Mr. Pauly is a professor of health care management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. They are co-authors of ''Reform Medicaid First'' and the forthcoming ''Medicaid Everyone Can Count On.'' 
 To the Editor:
 While I support your editorial urging Congress to increase federal dollars for Medicaid, it is not a given that expanding the number of people receiving Medicaid will lead to improved access to high-quality health care. Medicaid may appear to be a ''good deal'' for poor people, but Medicaid does reimburse physicians considerably less than private insurers. Thus, it should surprise no one that many physicians do not accept Medicaid patients. 
 Medicaid reimbursement is so low that physicians are unable to meet expenses, particularly in primary care. With the shortage of primary-care physicians nationwide, many people have no access to continuing primary care regardless of insurance carrier; Medicaid recipients are even less likely to be welcomed into primary-care practices. The increased demand from the newly insured will strain the system further. 
 Health care reform must be accompanied by cost reform, but inadequate reimbursement to primary-care physicians is shortsighted and counterproductive.
 Roberta Berrien Dennis, Mass., Jan. 10, 2010
 The writer is an internist.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICAID (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); COST OF LIVING (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); MEDICARE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); WRITERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); HEALTH CARE (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BEN NELSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



507 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 882 words

HEADLINE: A New York Volunteer Effort Will Soon Spread to 10 Cities

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL

 BODY:
Since April, they have spruced up a dozen city blocks, helped give 164,000 flu vaccinations and installed 178,000 compact fluorescent bulbs in public housing. They are volunteers, part of an ambitious New York effort to tap unpaid workers as a permanent, strategic element in solving city problems.
 The program, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's response to President Obama's call to increase civic service, began in April and includes nearly 200 AmeriCorps Vista volunteers who have fanned out across the city as a kind of consulting force, helping nonprofit agencies fine-tune their programs and recruit and deploy even more volunteers. Their work, city officials say, has resulted in 18,000 new volunteers serving 67,000 New Yorkers. 
 Now, that effort is going national. In Chicago on Monday, Mr. Bloomberg, Mayor Richard M. Daley and a coalition of mayors plan to announce 10 cities -- Chicago, Detroit, Los Angeles, Nashville, Newark, Omaha, Philadelphia, Sacramento, Seattle and Savannah, Ga. -- that will receive grants to finance programs of their own design. 
 ''We see this as an urban innovation,'' said Judith Rodin, president of the Rockefeller Foundation, which is providing the grants. ''It really brings the mayors and the city leadership together with the volunteers in a much more organized way that, we think, has the opportunity for much greater leverage and much greater impact.''
 Conceived as a way to address the country's most pressing needs during an economic downturn, as those needs grow and public money dwindles, the focus on volunteers has been received enthusiastically by cities across the country. The coalition, called Cities of Service, is modeled on the gun control group Mr. Bloomberg started in 2006, and it already has 80 members working together to develop programs, share information and promote their ideas.
 It is too early to know, though, if all the enthusiasm will improve government's ability to solve urban problems. There have been many similar campaigns in the past, said Thomas H. Pollak of the Center on Nonprofits and Philanthropy at the Urban Institute, a research group.
 ''The challenge has been to break through the widespread cynicism that it's not just some politician's or some organization's P.R. effort,'' he said. ''Offhand I can't think of any of these sorts of initiatives that clearly reached a tipping point where they're self-sustaining and transforming people's sense that they can be involved.'' 
 Surveys suggest that Americans are highly willing to volunteer from time to time, he said, adding, ''Can you get not just a person who will come out for 8 or 10 hours once a year, or once a quarter, but can you really match up the needs of a community with the needs of the volunteers?''
 But those involved in the program say it is intended to do precisely that by creating a centralized office within government to coordinate and manage volunteer activities at city agencies and nonprofit organizations.
 ''I think what Mayor Bloomberg recognized was that there are a lot of New Yorkers and literally people across this country who want to participate and want to give, and there's a lot of great nonprofits already doing that, but let's have a coordinated strategy and let's focus on some real results,'' said Alan Khazei, a nationally known proponent of community service who helped design the New York program and suggested that Mr. Bloomberg form the coalition. 
 Mr. Khazei, whose recent failed bid for Senator Edward M. Kennedy's seat drew support from Mr. Bloomberg, added: ''And what this challenge grant process has done is led other mayors to say, 'You know what, I want to do that too.' It was already happening, but now it's stepping up.'' 
 The grants will provide $200,000 to each city over two years to pay for a ''chief service officer'' to run the volunteer programs. As part of their applications, cities had to identify at least two focus areas; all 10 chosen from the 50 applicants selected something related to education or youth, with public safety and the environment among the more popular other choices.
 In New York, the program sweeps across several areas -- strengthening neighborhoods, education, health, emergency preparedness and the environment -- and seeks to make it easier for volunteers to find their way to the right organization, and to make sure the organization can efficiently use the volunteers. The emphasis has been on developing programs to advance the city's most important policy agendas, a task made more urgent by the recession.
 Thus far, the program appears to be meeting with some success, especially among the organizations using the AmeriCorps workers. New York Cares has been able to expand its programs by 20 percent, said Gary Bagley, the executive director, including its tax assistance program for low-income people. And Common Cents, which runs a youth fund-raising program called Penny Harvest, has been able to take on nearly 1,500 new volunteers, city officials said.
 ''These challenges aren't going away, and we don't necessarily have the money right now to weather this economic downturn without the help of volunteerism,'' said Diahann Billings-Burford, the city's chief service officer. ''We are trying to build an ethic of service that will last infinitely.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Layla Malavet, Micah Gibbens and Arvin Temkar at the office of Common Cents, a New York service organization that has been able to take on nearly 1,500 new volunteers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOLUNTEERS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CHARITIES (78%); CITIES (78%); PHILANTHROPY (77%); INFLUENZA (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); FOUNDATIONS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); GUN CONTROL (50%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (77%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%); SAVANNAH, GA, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



508 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Digging Into Massachusetts Campaign, Democrats Might Find Midterm Strategy

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
The Massachusetts Senate race offers the clearest demonstration yet of Republican strengths in 2010 -- and of how beleaguered Democrats will try to fight back.
 The Republican candidate, Scott Brown, has shocked political circles with a skillful special-election campaign capitalizing on discontent with Washington. Amid 10 percent unemployment, trillion-dollar deficits, Wall Street bailouts and President Obama's controversial agenda, Mr. Brown is running at least neck and neck in one of the most Democratic states in the country.
 But the effort by the Democratic candidate, Martha Coakley, to salvage her campaign just before Tuesday's election, with help from Mr. Obama, may provide an election-year template for her party, much as Mr. Brown's campaign will for Republicans. 
 Last week, the president unveiled his proposed ''financial crisis responsibility fee'' with rhetorical flourish, denouncing ''obscene'' Wall Street bonuses. Ms. Coakley quickly criticized Mr. Brown as an ally of bankers for opposing the tax.
 Whoever wins on Tuesday, Democratic strategists in Washington consider that Ms. Coakley's strongest message in her effort to hold the seat held the Edward M. Kennedy. She will not be the last Democrat to employ it.
 ''By opposing the fee on banks and regurgitating the same old ideas, the Republican Party seems content to run on a platform embracing the people and the policies that created this economic mess,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, the White House communications director. 
 Meet Congressional Democrats' 2010 survival strategy: economic populism to counter the antigovernment populism of the Tea Party movement and its Republican allies.
 Emerging Argument
 With its echoes of the Democratic Party of President Franklin D. Roosevelt, economic populism is an imperfect fit for Mr. Obama's 21st-century version. His top White House economic adviser, Lawrence H. Summers, entered the administration identified with the centrism of President Bill Clinton's tenure.
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, a former Summers protege, worked closely with the administration of President George W. Bush to stem the financial crisis in 2008 as president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. As vehemently as conservatives have criticized Mr. Geithner for government intervention in the marketplace, liberals have accused him of coddling Wall Street executives.
 ''When I came into office, I think most people believed I spent my life working in an investment bank,'' Mr. Geithner said in an interview. 
 Yet the soft-spoken Mr. Geithner is not resisting the administration's strategy. He calls it only fair to levy the bank fee on ''the people who benefited most from the crisis'' -- and whose behavior in distributing fat bonuses he calls inexplicable. He dismissed talk that the administration might extend Mr. Bush's tax cuts for the highest earners as ''nothing we've contemplated.''
 Other elements of an emerging populist argument are taking shape in Congressional health care negotiations. To offset the cost of exempting union workers from a tax on high-value health care plans, Democrats are turning to higher Medicare payroll taxes on Americans earning more than $200,000 a year.
 Mr. Obama's budget for the 2011 fiscal year will offer more clues to how aggressively he will turn to economic populism. 
 Congressional negotiators have sidetracked a House-passed 5.4 percent surtax on incomes over $500,000 to pay for expanded health coverage. But some Democrats see a variant of that plan returning in the budget as a way of reducing the deficit and financing middle-class tax cuts. And aides expect Mr. Obama to amplify calls for passing financial regulation to rein in Wall Street and taxing ''carried interest'' earnings of hedge fund executives at higher ordinary income rates rather than as capital gains.
 Limited Options
 Mr. Brown's pollster, Neil Newhouse, says Democratic attacks on Wall Street ''have some juice.'' But he says Democrats cannot disentangle them from discontent with Washington.
 Voters' ire at special help for bankers, Mr. Newhouse said, is ''as much toward the government for giving them bailouts as it is at the bankers for getting them.''
 That is not the Democrats' only problem with a populist strategy. Mr. Obama's cool, cerebral style does not naturally lend itself to displays of emotion.
 For votes and fund-raising alike, Democrats in recent elections have relied increasingly on affluent, college-educated voters who turned away from Republicans over social issues and Iraq. Most fundamentally, noted Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster, ''the economy's pretty gloomy, and we're in charge.''
 But Mr. Obama's party has few better options. At a minimum, populist economic themes allow Democratic candidates a chance to redirect the attention of unhappy voters from one set of insiders (Congressional incumbents) to another (Wall Street elites and their onetime Republican allies).
 ''It's a way of defining and clarifying the choice for people,'' said a Democratic pollster, Geoff Garin. The lesson of Massachusetts, he added, is ''you'd better not be the insider.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LIBERALISM (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); CREDIT CRISIS (76%); BAILOUT BONUSES (76%); TAX LAW (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); CENTRAL BANKS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); MARTHA COAKLEY (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



509 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 669 words

HEADLINE: In Church Visit, Obama Addresses Race, Struggle and Hope

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama told a church congregation here on Sunday that the promise inherent in his election as the nation's first African-American president had yet to be fully realized, and he acknowledged the role partisan politics continues to play in Washington. 
 Offering a stark assessment of his first year in office, Mr. Obama, in wide-ranging remarks before an African-American audience at the Vermont Avenue Baptist Church, simultaneously issued an annual report card, a critique of liberals who complain that he has not done enough, a broadside at conservatives who say he has taken on too much, an embrace of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s legacy and an acknowledgment that the United States remains some distance from the post-racial world that many had envisioned immediately after his inauguration. 
 ''You know, on the heels of that victory over a year ago, there were some who suggested that somehow we had entered into a post-racial America,'' Mr. Obama said. ''There were those who argued that because I had spoke of a need for unity in this country, that our nation was somehow entering into a period of post-partisanship.''
 ''That didn't work out so well,'' Mr. Obama said.
 He also spoke frankly of the popular characterization that he is unflappably calm, and of the role that faith has played in moments of frustration. ''You know, folks ask me sometimes why I look so calm,'' Mr. Obama said. ''They say, 'All this stuff coming at you, how come you just seem calm?' And I have a confession to make here. There are times where I'm not so calm.''
 He added: ''There are times when progress seems too slow. There are times when the words that are spoken about me hurt. There are times when the barbs sting. There are times when it feels like all these efforts are for naught, and change is so painfully slow in coming, and I have to confront my own doubts. But let me tell you -- during those times, it's faith that keeps me calm.'' 
 Mr. Obama's remarks at Vermont Avenue Baptist, which was founded by freed slaves in 1866, came a day before the federal holiday to honor the slain civil rights leader; the president noted that Dr. King himself had come to the historic sanctuary to ''sermonize from time to time.'' 
 Mr. Obama promised that his health care overhaul -- now hanging in the balance because of the Massachusetts Senate race -- would soon become law. ''Under the legislation I plan to sign into law, insurance companies won't be able to drop you,'' he said. 
 While he did not specifically mention the Massachusetts race for the seat previously held by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Mr. Obama said he fully intended to get his health package through Congress. The Republican candidate in that race, Scott Brown, has said that he would vote against the health plan if he defeats the Democratic candidate, Martha Coakley; Democrats are clinging to a 60-40 supermajority in the Senate.
 Mr. Obama's assurances on health care drew applause from the congregation, which was visibly thrilled by the surprise visit by the president, his wife, Michelle, and their daughters, Malia and Sasha.
 Mr. Obama spoke of the ''hard winter'' Americans are passing through. ''Unemployment is at its highest level in more than a quarter of a century,'' he said. ''Nowhere is it higher than the African-American community. Poverty is on the rise. Home ownership is slipping. Beyond our shores, our sons and daughters are fighting two wars. Closer to home, our Haitian brothers and sisters are in desperate need.''
 But, he said, Americans are used to getting through times of strife. ''The slaves and the freedmen who rode an underground railroad, seeking the light of justice under the cover of night -- they weathered a hard winter. The seamstress whose feet were tired, the pastor whose voice echoes through the ages -- they weathered some hard winters.''
 He added: ''Yet, each season, the frost melts, the cold recedes, the sun reappears. So it was for earlier generations, and so it will be for us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A program at the Vermont Avenue Baptist Church in Washington, which President Obama and his family visited on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); LEGISLATION (84%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (60%); INSURANCE LAW (60%); INSURANCE (50%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



510 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: He Doesn't Miss Limelight, but Bush Is Back in It

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For the first time in a year, he was roaming the halls of the West Wing, greeting ushers and Secret Service officers by name and being briefed in the Oval Office on the latest crisis. As former President George W. Bush strode into the Rose Garden with that same broad gait, his eyes searched for familiar faces.
 Mr. Bush's return to Washington this weekend after a year off the political stage brought the 43rd president full circle. The commander in chief who summoned predecessors to the White House after natural disasters was now one of those being summoned. The president who was blamed, fairly or not, for the response to Hurricane Katrina was now being given the chance to put lessons learned to work in Haiti. 
 His re-emergence in the national arena almost a year to the day after flying home to Texas came with all the accouterments such occasions command. Five back-to-back appearances on the Sunday television talk shows alongside his fellow former president, Bill Clinton. A commercial taped from the White House Map Room appealing to Americans for help. A new Web site marrying his name with Mr. Clinton's to organize an ambitious relief effort after last week's earthquake devastated the Caribbean island.
 But Mr. Bush resolutely stuck to his vow to stay out of the political debates consuming Washington. He held his tongue, as he has for a year, even as President Obama has deflected criticism by pointing to the troubles he inherited and while many from Mr. Bush's old team, led by former Vice President Dick Cheney, waged a vigorous campaign against the current president.
 The Sunday interviews were organized on the condition that they stuck to Haiti, an adviser said. ''Now's not the time to focus on politics,'' Mr. Bush said on ''Face the Nation'' on CBS. ''It's time to focus on helping people.''
 If anything, he seemed reluctant to be back. ''I frankly don't miss the limelight,'' he said on ''State of the Union'' on CNN. ''I'm glad to help out, but there's life after the presidency, is what I've learned, and I'm going to live it to the fullest. And this is part of living it to the fullest, to help other people.''
 Some former aides said Mr. Bush agreed with a lot of what Mr. Cheney had said about Mr. Obama's policies, but found the idea of speaking out himself distasteful. He has asked some who have visited him in Dallas what they thought of the way Mr. Cheney has conducted himself, but he does not offer his own views to many, even in private.
 ''He didn't like it when he was president when former presidents criticized the actions of their successor,'' said Karen Hughes, a longtime adviser. The Bush team resents ''a lot of unfair blame thrown at him in the last year,'' she said, adding that ''I'm sure he appreciates it when people try to set the record straight.'' But, she said, ''I don't remember him saying to any of us to do or not to do that.''
 Instead, Mr. Bush has focused on building his presidential library and a policy institute to advance priorities like education, global health, freedom and economic growth. He gave 32 speeches in 2009 and is finishing the first draft of a book he is writing. His institute has scheduled four conferences for March and April on issues like women in Afghanistan and natural gas.
 The Haiti project puts him in the same role he asked his father and Mr. Clinton to play after the Asian tsunami of 2004 and Hurricane Katrina in 2005. The first President Bush told Mr. Clinton last year that if another such project came up, ''I'm passing the mantle to my son,'' according to Douglas J. Band, Mr. Clinton's counselor. After the earthquake in Haiti, the younger Mr. Bush quickly signed up. ''He didn't even think about it before saying yes,'' Mr. Band said.
 Mr. Bush's first visit back to the White House may have been a little awkward, but he made jokes and played with Mr. Obama's dog. ''He was very relaxed, very jovial and joking around with everybody, self-deprecating as always,'' Mr. Band added. 
 During the Sunday television interviews, Mr. Bush expressed grief for Haiti's victims. ''I feel sick to my stomach,'' he said on ''Fox News Sunday,'' and noted that a member of his church had died there. His lesson from Hurricane Katrina was that it takes time to move in supplies. ''There's an expectation among people that things are going to happen quickly,'' he said on ''Meet the Press'' on NBC, ''and sometimes it's hard to make things happen quickly.''
 Mr. Bush and Mr. Clinton called each other Bill and George, and Mr. Bush joked that his mother ''calls him my fourth brother.''
 ''The black sheep of the family,'' Mr. Clinton quipped.
 ''When you're both retired,'' Mr. Bush said on ''This Week'' on ABC, ''you kind of hang around the retirement center together, and so he and I have become friends.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Presidents Barack Obama, George W. Bush and Bill Clinton returning to the Oval Office on Saturday after announcing a fund-raising effort to help Haiti recover from last week's earthquake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); INTERVIEWS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HURRICANE KATRINA (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (72%); POLITICAL DEBATES (71%); HURRICANES (70%); WEB SITES (52%); EARTHQUAKES (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); DICK CHENEY (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



511 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; PRESCRIPTIONS MAKING SENSE OF THE HEALTH CARE DEBATE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: Economic Diagnosis For Health System

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Nearly everyone agrees that there is something sick about the American health care system, especially when it comes to the seemingly out-of-control rise in costs. 
 While Democrats and Republicans continue to fight over the remedy, there is one man who can claim to have rendered a specific diagnosis and -- more than 40 years later -- he wants lawmakers and President Obama to know that there probably is no cure. 
 What afflicts the American health care system (and those of other industrialized nations) is called Baumol's cost disease. It is named for William J. Baumol, an economist at New York University, who turns 88 next month. And it explains why health care costs will almost certainly continue to rise faster than general inflation, and why Democrats might not want to set expectations too high when it comes to their health care bill. 
 ''Let me say first of all that I am a strong supporter of the general notion of the president's health care proposals,'' Dr. Baumol said in an interview. But he warned that policy makers, including Mr. Obama, were in danger of promising too much.
 ''One mustn't exaggerate what this program can accomplish,'' he said, ''because if you claim miracles and then prices keep going up two years from now, you have bought yourself some trouble.''
 Dr. Baumol and a colleague, William G. Bowen, described the cost disease in a 1966 book on the economics of the performing arts. Their point was that some sectors of the economy are burdened by an inexorable rise in labor costs because they tend not to benefit from increased efficiency. As an example, they used a Mozart string quintet composed in 1787: 223 years later, it still requires five musicians and the same amount of time to play. 
 Despite all sorts of technological advances, health care, like the performing arts, suffers from the cost disease. So do other public services like education, police work and garbage collection. While some industries enjoy sharp increases in productivity (cars can be built faster than ever, retail inventory can be managed better), endeavors like health care are as labor-intensive as ever. 
 And yet, wages in health care grow to match wage increases in the broader economy. (Imagine trying to pay today's violinist the same as a counterpart in 1787.) 
 All of this happens invisibly, but the proof is in the budget ledgers of local, state and federal governments. Cost disease helps explain why low-income Americans can now afford flat-screen televisions that were out of reach a decade ago, but health insurance that was unaffordable in January 2000 remains unaffordable in January 2010. 
 At the same time, demand for health care never lets up. So while slow sales of video games or clothing can reduce prices, health care prices never ease. And while the robots that help build cars have replaced human beings on the assembly line, robots that help out in modern operating rooms are not as economically efficient. 
 ''We do now have robots performing surgery, but the robot is under constant supervision of the surgeon during the process,'' Dr. Baumol said. ''You haven't saved labor. You have done other good things, but it isn't a way of cheapening the process.'' 
 Recent research, including a December 2008 study for Centraal Planbureau, the Netherlands Bureau for Economic Policy Analysis, has found that Baumol's cost disease continues to be a major factor in rising health costs around the world.
 Dr. Baumol is no stranger to efforts to overhaul the health system. In 1994, he was briefly tapped to help with the Clinton health care proposal, in part because of his friendship with Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the New York Democrat and chairman of the Finance Committee, who became a major force in dismantling President Bill Clinton's proposal. 
 Dr. Baumol described his role in 1994, and his relationship with Mr. Moynihan, in an interview with Alan B. Krueger, who is now the assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy, published in the Journal of Economic Perspectives in 2001. 
 (Mr. Moynihan, who died in 2003, had found a political epiphany in the theory of cost disease. ''You have now explained to me why the Democratic Party is called the party of tax and spend, because we are financing all the things that are affected by the cost disease and Republicans want to short-change them,'' Dr. Baumol quoted the senator as saying.) 
 In 1994, as now, Dr. Baumol urged officials not to overpromise. 
 ''Most of all, I said, 'Look at what's happened in Europe and Japan,' '' he recalled in the 2001 interview. '' 'You have virtually every sort of government control: some on doctor's fees, some on cost per visit. In none of the countries have they been able to get costs to rise more slowly than the rate of inflation. You are promising something which will come back to haunt you within the lifetime of this administration.' '' 
 Dr. Baumol said that governments were not the only victims of cost disease. ''Just look at what happens to insurance companies, where they are accused of gouging because they are paying for health care,'' he told Dr. Krueger. ''And everybody says we can solve the problem -- make it illegal.'' 
 All of this is not to say that efforts to improve the health care system are futile or that costs cannot be slowed. 
 Economists agree that health care expenses may still rise faster than inflation, but they do not have to rise as fast as they do now, or so much faster in the United States than elsewhere. Patient outcomes could be improved, independent of costs. 
 ''While health care costs are growing throughout the world,'' Dr. Baumol said, ''the level of costs can be very different.''
 Indeed, Dr. Baumol said that cost disease only underscored the need to help all Americans afford health care. 
 ''No one has found the way to prevent health care costs from growing, so the bottom line is they will grow,'' he said. ''That means that the less affluent of our population are going to need help in being provided with adequate medical care. 
 ''But we can afford it, because we are an economy in which innovation and productivity all continue and continue to rise, and provide us the means with which we can afford to provide health care to the people to whom it is denied today.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William J. Baumol 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); BUDGETS (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (69%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (69%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (68%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); PRODUCTIVITY (63%); MUSIC (62%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (60%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (60%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



512 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Experts Wonder About U.S. Role in Haiti After the Cameras Leave

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER and MARK LANDLER; Helene Cooper reported from Washington, and Mark Landler from Port-au-Prince, Haiti.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama's aggressive response to the deadly earthquake in Haiti has led to criticism from the far right that the United States is taking on too much, at a time when its foreign-policy plate is already full.
 But the more relevant question, experts on the region say, is whether the United States will maintain a muscular role in the reconstruction of Haiti once the news cameras go home. The United States has a history of either political domination or neglect in its backyard, and administration officials acknowledge that for Mr. Obama, striking the right balance in Haiti will be crucial. 
 ''The classic U.S. role in the whole hemisphere is either complete neglect, or we come in and run the show,'' said Sarah Stephens, executive director for the Center for Democracy in the Americas. But with Haiti, a mere 700 miles from Miami, ''there is a great opportunity for the United States to do this in a new way,'' she said.
 Mr. Obama has pledged that the United States is in Haiti for the long haul. On Sunday, he mobilized military reserves -- particularly medical staff for hospital ships -- signing an executive order that said it was necessary to back up active-duty troops ''for the effective conduct of operational missions, including those involving humanitarian assistance, related to relief efforts in Haiti.''
 American troops have taken control of the airport at Port-au-Prince, the Haitian capital, and are helping to provide security for the enormous international relief effort. A steady stream of administration officials have headed south, from Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton -- who cut short a trip to the South Pacific, rushed home, and then flew to Haiti on Saturday -- to one of Mr. Obama's closest aides, Denis R. McDonough, the National Security Council's chief of staff. 
 ''We will be here today, tomorrow, and for the time ahead,'' Mrs. Clinton said to Haitian journalists in Port-au-Prince, standing alongside President Rene Preval. 
 With so many others in the Haitian government missing or dead, the Obama administration is already facing questions of whether the United States is the only entity capable of bringing order to Port-au-Prince. Beyond that is the question of whether Mr. Obama can handle Haiti at a time when he is already grappling with wars in Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 ''The short answer is yes,'' said Rep. Jan Schakowsky, Democrat of Illinois and a frequent visitor to Haiti. ''As challenging as it is, there is no question about it straining our capacities at home. This is a tiny country. It's close, and it's not going to be our job alone to rebuild.''
 Mr. Obama has indicated that the amount the United States has pledged so far to Haiti, $100 million, is bound to go up significantly. Still, it is well below the $350 million that President Bush pledged in the early weeks of the Asian tsunami, which killed 226,000 people after it struck in December 2004. 
 And while Mr. Obama has increased the number of American troops in Afghanistan by 30,000 to just below 100,000, and promised ambitious efforts to stabilize Yemen and Pakistan, the number of American troops being sent to Haiti is of course smaller -- some 10,000 Marines and soldiers by Monday, military officials said.
 The bigger issue may be sustaining the effort. In 2009, much of the administration's energy was focused on Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iran, with little time on this hemisphere. The administration's new point man for Latin America and the Caribbean -- Arturo Valenzuela, the assistant secretary of state for the Western Hemisphere -- was confirmed only in November.
 In the past, American interest in Haiti has waxed and waned. President Clinton sent 20,000 troops there in 1994 to restore President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to power, an intervention still viewed today as producing, at best, mixed results. 
 If Haiti's only problem were poverty, American officials discovered at the time, the job of building its economy would have been one thing. But endemic government corruption and a history of post-colonial abandonment left Haiti in shambles 10 years later, when Mr. Aristide was finally driven from power in 2004. 
 In the years since 1994, Haiti has resurfaced in the American conscience only during times of crisis: the Aristide meltdown; and after four devastating storms in 2008 that wiped out most of the country's food crops and damaged irrigation systems, causing acute hunger for millions.
 Some Haiti experts say that despite the criticism from conservative commentators -- Glenn Beck complained that Mr. Obama spent more time reacting to the Haiti earthquake than he did to the attempted Christmas Day terrorist attack -- the heart-rending tragedy in Haiti may make it impossible for the United States to ignore it once the news media attention goes away. 
 Mr. McDonough, the national security aide, spoke to that in a call with reporters on Sunday, saying that the administration was determined to do everything it could to alleviate the suffering in Haiti. ''The more we hear criticism, the more we are intent on trying to improve the lot of the Haitian people,'' he said.
 What is more, the administration and the international community appear to be uniform in their belief that Mr. Preval, unlike Mr. Artistide, is someone with whom they can deal. They credit him with taking steps in recent years to develop the economy.
 Mrs. Clinton said a major reason for her four-hour visit to Port-au-Prince was to buck up Mr. Preval. At one point on Saturday, the Haitian president walked through the makeshift American command center at the airport, appearing dazed by the clamor.
 But he seemed comforted by the presence of Cheryl D. Mills, Mrs. Clinton's chief of staff, who is in charge of the Haiti portfolio at the State Department and who has made multiple visits to Port-au-Prince over the last few months.
 Administration officials say the White House can handle Haiti without neglecting its other concerns. They noted that Mr. Obama convened a National Security Council on meeting on Friday to discuss the implementation of his new Afghanistan policy. 
 ''It's only a problem if the whole government isn't functioning properly,'' a senior administration official said, speaking on condition of anonymity because he did not want to publicly discuss internal matters. ''What you see here is a good example of the government functioning well.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: United Nations soldiers controlled access to a tent village in Port-au-Prince on Sunday as the World Food Program distributed aid. The United States is sending some 10,000 Marines and soldiers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (79%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS WORLD FOOD PROGRAMME (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); JAN SCHAKOWSKY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (54%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



513 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: How Retirees Saved the Banks

 BODY:
If you're a retiree who relies on interest income, you know that the tap is running dry. In fact, many investors in certificates of deposits, savings accounts and money market accounts are losing money once taxes and inflation are subtracted from today's extremely low yields. 
 Less well known is that measly savings yields are central to the government effort to buy time for the banks to earn their way back to health. It is important to rebuild the banks. But more attention must be paid to the collateral damage from that effort. 
 Here's what's happening: By lowering the short-term interest rate it controls to virtually zero and creating lending programs, the Federal Reserve has enabled banks to borrow cheaply. The banks re-lend that cheap money, but not necessarily to consumers and businesses. They can, for example, lend it to back to the federal government by buying Treasury securities, and earn a nice spread between their cost of funds and Treasury yields. 
 At the same time, banks are awash in deposits, much of it from investors who have pulled their money out of riskier investments. With money rolling in, big banks don't need to compete with one another for savers, which further depresses the interest on offer. 
 The result is presumably healthier banks and certainly poorer savers. Or, as William Gross, the legendary bond investor told The Times's Stephanie Strom: ''It's capitalism, I guess, but it's not to be applauded.'' 
 The situation is especially tough on retirees who depend on interest income to supplement their Social Security. Some will have to spend their capital to make ends meet. Some will probably take on more risk by investing in stocks or bonds, or will have to live on less. Some, as Ms. Strom reported, have taken out reverse mortgages to increase their income -- another example of how Americans' wealth is being sapped. Reverse mortgages allow people who are 62 and older to convert the equity in their homes into cash, with the loans usually repaid by selling the house after the owner dies.
 Regulators have put safeguards in place to combat abusive lending on government-insured reverse mortgages, about 90 percent of the market. (They include prohibitions on cross-selling, whereby a lender urges borrowers to use the money from the mortgage to buy other investments from the lender.) Given the nation's recent experiences -- and the vulnerability of many elderly people -- regulators will have to be vigilant. 
 The effect of the financial crisis on retirees -- and planning for retirement -- has been largely overlooked. It deserves a high place on policy makers' agendas. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (90%); CHECKING & SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); REVERSE MORTGAGES (89%); BONDS (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); AGING (86%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (74%); FAIR LENDING (74%); RETIREMENT PLANNING (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); CALENDARS (70%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (67%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



514 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Grand Dream for Plaza Hotel Fades in a Not-So-Gilded Age

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE HAUGHNEY

 BODY:
When an Israeli billionaire bought New York's storied Plaza Hotel for $675 million, he envisioned turning the plucky grande dame with the globally recognized name into mainly a luxury condo tower that would cater to the world's wealthiest buyers and offer stores to satisfy their every desire.
 But now, six years later, with the city in an acute recession, the grandest aims of the new owner, Isaac Tshuva, and the excitement of the new Plaza's first residents seem to have dimmed, according to sales data. 
 The last 11 owners to sell their luxury condos at the Plaza Hotel sold them at a loss, including the owner of Apartment 409, which sold for $8.5 million less than it cost 16 months before. 
 The Plaza's underground luxury stores are struggling to attract shoppers, and one expert broker is consequently advising clients not to take space there.
 And this spring, steps below where F. Scott Fitzgerald found his muse for ''The Great Gatsby,'' the hotel is opening an upscale food court offering burgers and pizza. The Palm Court, the Plaza's famous restaurant, has been closed.
 ''It's gone from being a landmark to being just a building,'' Clark Wolf, an independent restaurant consultant, said of the situation. ''In an era without a Tavern on the Green or a Cafe des Artistes, we need something. New York City is screaming for a landmark.''
 But the 102-year-old Plaza still has cachet. To many New Yorkers and tourists, the Plaza is still the place where Eloise, the fictional 6-year-old, treats the hotel as her playground, and Clint Eastwood and Morgan Freeman share late-afternoon drinks at the Oak Bar. And the Plaza's overall financial picture means little to prospective brides: The Grand Ballroom is still booked every Saturday night in May. 
 In the heady first couple of years after Mr. Tshuva acquired the Plaza in 2004, he reaped the rewards of a real estate boom. After a $450 million makeover was complete, Mr. Tshuva's real estate firm sold all 181 units sight unseen for a total of more than $1.3 billion. The prices for these apartments were so high that real estate brokerage firms started separating the Plaza's sales figures from their overall data reporting because they distorted the market.
 But Mr. Tshuva would also fight with the hotel union, battle with the owners of the rights to Eloise's image and even endure cries of protest about the possible loss of the Plaza. The actress Sarah Jessica Parker held her 40th birthday party there in a show of support for the hotel.
 According to data tracked by Streeteasy.com, Earl McEvoy, a mutual fund manager who paid $4.79 million for an apartment in October 2007, sold it last summer for $4 million. Guy Wildenstein, president of the Wildenstein & Company gallery on the Upper East Side and owner of a large private art collection, sold Apartment 409, and another unit he bought in August 2008 for $9.6 million went for $6 million 15 months later.
 Then there was Oscar S. Schafer, a managing partner at the hedge fund O.S.S. Capital Management, who took a hit on No. 1709. He bought the three-bedroom unit for $14.6 million in May 2008 and sold it for $8.5 million in July 2009. And 9 of the 28 apartments in the building on the market have slashed their asking prices.
 Some context: Lawyers and brokers say that 15 Central Park West, a new property whose condos were sold at roughly at the same time as the Plaza's, had its last 10 transactions sell for well over their asking price. Edward Mermelstein, a real estate lawyer who represented more than two dozen buyers of apartments at the Plaza and 15 Central Park West, said that since both properties opened, his clients preferred 15 Central Park West apartments for its bigger windows and bigger-name residents.
 It is possible, then, that his buyers want to live near the chief executive of Goldman Sachs at 15 Central Park West, not the former chief executive of Bear Stearns at the Plaza.
 ''You have the perception at this point that 15 Central Park West is very much a private club,'' Mr. Mermelstein said. ''The Plaza has very much of a feeling of a hotel.''
 But even the most serious skeptics of the relative value of the Plaza condos say that once the residential real estate slowdown passes, the building will be desirable to some buyers.
 ''With its uniqueness in the world, and its name in the world, it's going to be a sought-after address,'' said Noel Berk, a real estate broker who lives in and has sold apartments at 15 Central Park West. ''The Plaza is the Plaza.''
 One of the central struggles at the Plaza involves the shopping center Mr. Tshuva's firm, Elad Properties, created in the hotel's basement. It now includes several luxury retailers like the Viennese patisserie Demel, Maurice Fine Jewelry and Krigler perfumes. But a shirt maker, Eton of Sweden, has closed. 
 Alan Victor, president of the retail brokerage firm Lansco, said that while two of his brokers made deals there, he was advising clients not to set up shop there because of the location off Fifth Avenue and the recession.
 ''It's just too risky to put our tenants there,'' he said.
 Plaza executives responsible for the hotel and events divisions say that while the market has been tough, it is slowly getting better.
 Business for events booked in the Grand Ballroom dropped 20 percent in 2009, from 2008, said Liz Neumark, principal of CPS Events, which has a 25-year lease to manage the hotel's event spaces. She credits the drop to a decline in corporate meetings and the tighter budgets of nonprofit organizations.
 Shane Krige, general manager of the 282-room hotel that still operates at the Plaza, said that occupancy for hotel rooms followed similar trends.
 But Plaza executives also see some hopeful signs. Ms. Neumark predicts a 30 percent jump in wedding bookings this year. The hotel's occupancy rate rose to 90 percent in December, according to Mr. Krige. The hotel also just received its first five-diamond rating from AAA, and several princes and princesses stayed there last week.
 It remains to be seen whether the mix of restaurants in the building will meet the standards of truly highbrow guests. The Edwardian Room remains closed except for private events. The Palm Court, which reopened briefly, closed again in December 2008. Mr. Krige said that Fairmont, which manages the hotel, plans to reopen the Palm Court this spring, and he is posting job openings there. The Oak Bar, the Oak Room, the Champagne Bar and the Rose Club remain open.
 The celebrity chef Todd English is sorting out construction details for a 5,400-square-foot food hall next to the basement stores. Mr. English's spokeswoman on this project, Willie Norkin, dismissed any questions that the market's food offerings -- they will range from sushi to dumplings to pizza -- may not be up to the Plaza's reputation.
 ''I don't think the goal here is to have offerings that are going to be exclusive,'' she said. ''It's going to have offerings that are inclusive and appealing.''
 Joey Alaham, a part owner in the Oak Room and owner of three other restaurants, said that even in the face of the recession, there is a history about the Plaza that still draws customers. He described a 97-year-old man who recently visited the Oak Bar. He ordered a Macallan Scotch and gazed at the newly restored murals around him.
 ''His wife passed away,'' Mr. Alaham said. ''He came in to remember their first date.''

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Monday about the declining fortunes of the Plaza Hotel in New York misspelled the surname of a part owner of the Oak Room, one of the Plaza's restaurants. He is Joey Allaham, not Alaham.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Terrace Room, above, an event hall at the Plaza Hotel. Plaza executives responsible for events say that while the market has been tough, it is slowly getting better. At left, guests at the Oak Bar. Occupancy for the hotel has declined, although the rate rose to 90 percent in December. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 REBECCA McALPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (70%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (64%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: SARAH JESSICA PARKER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



515 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1423 words

HEADLINE: The Lock That Says 'Pick Me'

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
The recent computer attacks on the mighty Google left every corporate network in the world looking a little less safe. 
 Google's confrontation with China -- over government censorship in general and specific attacks on its systems -- is an exceptional case, of course, extending to human rights and international politics as well as high-tech spying. But the intrusion into Google's computers and related attacks from within China on some 30 other companies point to the rising sophistication of such assaults and the vulnerability of even the best defenses, security experts say.
 ''The Google case shines a bright light on what can be done in terms of spying and getting into corporate networks,'' said Edward M. Stroz, a former high-tech crime agent with the F.B.I. who now heads a computer security investigation firm in New York.
 Computer security is an ever-escalating competition between so-called black-hat attackers and white-hat defenders. One of the attackers' main tools is malicious software, known as malware, which has steadily evolved in recent years. Malware was once mainly viruses and worms, digital pests that gummed up and sometimes damaged personal computers and networks. 
 Malware today, however, is likely to be more subtle and selective, nesting inside corporate networks. And it can be a tool for industrial espionage, transmitting digital copies of trade secrets, customer lists, future plans and contracts.
 Corporations and government agencies spend billions of dollars a year on specialized security software to detect and combat malware. Still, the black hats seem to be gaining the upper hand.
 In a survey of 443 companies and government agencies published last month, the Computer Security Institute found that 64 percent reported malware infections, up from 50 percent the previous year. The financial loss from security breaches was $234,000 on average for each organization.
 ''Malware is a huge problem, and becoming a bigger one,'' said Robert Richardson, director of the institute, a research and training organization. ''And now the game is much more about getting a foothold in the network, for spying.''
 Security experts say employee awareness and training are a crucial defense. Often, malware infections are a result of high-tech twists on old-fashioned cons. One scam, for example, involves small U.S.B. flash drives, left in a company parking lot, adorned with the company logo. Curious employees pick them up, put them in their computers and open what looks like an innocuous document. In fact, once run, it is software that collects passwords and other confidential information on a user's computer and sends it to the attackers. More advanced malware can allow an outsider to completely take over the PC and, from there, explore a company's network.
 With this approach, the hackers do not need to break through a company's network defenses because a worker has unknowingly invited them inside.
 Another approach, one used in the Google attacks, is a variation on so-called phishing schemes, in which an e-mail message purporting to be from the recipient's bank or another institution tricks the person into giving up passwords. Scammers send such messages to thousands of people in hopes of ensnaring a few. But with so-called spear-phishing, the bogus e-mail is sent to a specific person and appears to come from a friend or colleague inside that person's company, making it far more believable. Again, an attached file, once opened, unleashes the spy software. 
 Other techniques for going inside companies involve exploiting weaknesses in Web-site or network-routing software, using those openings as gateways for malware. 
 To combat leaks of confidential information, network security software looks for anomalies in network traffic -- large files and rapid rates of data transmission, especially coming from corporate locations where confidential information is housed.
 ''Fighting computer crime is a balance of technology and behavioral science, understanding the human dimension of the threat,'' said Mr. Stroz, the former F.B.I. agent and security investigator. ''There is no law in the books that will ever throw a computer in prison.'' 
 As cellphones become more powerful, they offer new terrain for malware to exploit in new ways. Recently, security experts have started seeing malware that surreptitiously switches on a cellphone's microphone and camera. ''It turns a smartphone into a surveillance device,'' said Mark D. Rasch, a computer security consultant in Bethesda, Md., who formerly prosecuted computer crime for the Justice Department.
 Hacked cellphones, Mr. Rasch said, can also provide vital corporate intelligence because they can disclose their location. The whereabouts of a cellphone belonging to an investment banker who is representing a company in merger talks, he said, could provide telling clues to rival bidders, for example.
 Security experts say the ideal approach is to carefully identify a corporation's most valuable intellectual property and data, and place it on a separate computer network not linked to the Internet, leaving a so-called air gap. 
 ''Sometimes the cheapest and best security solution is to lock the door and don't connect,'' said James P. Litchko, a former government security official who is a manager at Cyber Security Professionals, a consulting firm.
 Some companies go further, building ''Faraday cages'' to house their most critical computers and data. These cages typically have a metal grid structure built into the walls, so no electromagnetic or cellphone transmissions can come in or out. Defense contractors, aerospace companies and some automakers have built Faraday cages, named for the 19th-century English scientist Michael Faraday, who designed them to shield electrical devices from lightning and other shocks.
 But in the Internet era, isolationism is often an impractical approach for many companies. Sharing information and knowledge with industry partners and customers is seen as the path to greater flexibility and efficiency. Work is routinely done by far-flung project teams. Mobile professionals want vital company data to be accessible wherever they are. 
 Most of that collaboration and communication is done over the Internet, increasing the risk of outside attacks. And the ubiquity of Internet access inside companies has its own risks. In a case of alleged industrial theft that became public recently, a software engineer at Goldman Sachs was accused last year of stealing proprietary software used in high-speed trading, just before he left for another firm. The engineer, who pleaded not guilty, had uploaded the software to a server computer in Germany, prosecutors say.
 The complexity of software code from different suppliers, as it intermingles in corporate networks and across the Internet, also opens the door to security weaknesses that malware writers exploit. One quip among computer security experts is: ''The sum of the parts is a hole.''
 But, security experts say, the problem goes well beyond different kinds of software not playing well together. The software products themselves, they say, are riddled with vulnerabilities -- thousands of such flaws are detected each year across the industry. Several weaknesses, it seems, including one in the Microsoft Internet Explorer browser, were exploited in the recent attacks on Google that were aimed at Chinese dissidents.
 The long-term answer, some experts assert, lies in setting the software business on a path to becoming a mature industry, with standards, defined responsibilities and liability for security gaps, guided by forceful self-regulation or by the government. 
 Just as the government eventually stepped in to mandate seat belts in cars and safety standards for aircraft, says James A. Lewis, a computer security expert at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, the time has come for software.
 Mr. Lewis, who advised the Obama administration about online security last spring, recalled that he served on a White House advisory group on secure public networks in 1996. At the time, he recommended a hands-off approach, assuming that market incentives for the participants would deliver Internet security.
 Today, Mr. Lewis says he was mistaken. ''It's a classic market failure -- the market hasn't delivered security,'' he said. ''Our economy has become so dependent on this fabulous technology -- the Internet -- but it's not safe. And that's an issue we'll have to wrestle with.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''Fighting computer crime is a balance of technology and behavioral science,'' said Edward M. Stroz, a former agent with the F.B.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EIRINI VOURLOUMIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MINH UONG/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (91%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (90%); INDUSTRIAL ESPIONAGE (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (78%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (78%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); CENSORSHIP (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); FLASH DRIVES (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



516 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Looking Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC DATA Reports include: housing starts and Producer Price Index for December (Wednesday); Conference Board index of leading economic indicators for December; the Philadelphia Fed's manufacturing index for January(Thursday). 
 CORPORATE EARNINGS Citigroup, CSX, I.B.M. and TD Ameritrade (Tuesday); AMR, Bank of America, Bank of New York Mellon, Delta Air Lines, eBay, Morgan Stanley, SLM, Starbucks, State Street, U.S. Bancorp and Wells Fargo (Wednesday); Advanced Micro Devices, American Express, Continental Airlines, Fifth Third Bancorp, Goldman Sachs, Google, Southwest Airlines, UnitedHealth Group and Xerox (Thursday); General Electric, Harley-Davidson, Kimberly-Clark, McDonald's and Schlumberger (Friday).
 ET CETERA Markets and government offices to be closed in observance of Martin Luther King's Birthday (Monday).
 The World Economic Forum will announce the lineup for its 40th annual meeting in Davos, Switzerland (Wednesday).
 The House Financial Services Committee will conduct a hearing about compensation in the financial industry (Friday). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); CONSTRUCTION (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (88%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%)

COMPANY: FIFTH THIRD BANCORP (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (72%); U S BANCORP (72%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (58%); TD AMERITRADE HOLDING CORP (58%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); GOOGLE INC (57%); KIMBERLY-CLARK CORP (57%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (57%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (57%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%)

TICKER: FITB (NASDAQ) (83%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); BK (NYSE) (72%); USB (NYSE) (72%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); AMTD (NYSE) (58%); UAL (NYSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); KMB (NYSE) (57%); LUV (NYSE) (57%); UNH (NYSE) (57%); DAL (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (57%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%); AXP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (83%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (57%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (57%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: GRAUBUNDEN, SWITZERLAND (72%) SWITZERLAND (85%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



517 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Reliable, Liberal Massachusetts? Think Again

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

DATELINE: MARLBOROUGH, Mass. 

 BODY:
Angela Grenham, 50, was raised a Massachusetts Democrat -- ''We had the crucifix and the J.F.K. sign,'' she recalled -- and voted for a Democrat for president as recently as 2000, when she supported Al Gore. 
 But this weekend she stood on a street corner here in the heart of Boston's politically unpredictable western suburbs holding up a sign for the Republican running to fill the seat long held by Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Scott Brown, who has vowed to stop the Democratic health care bill in its tracks.
 Cars and pickup trucks honked their approval as they sped by. Ms. Grenham proudly announced that a group of rivals holding up signs for the Democratic candidate in Tuesday's special election, Martha Coakley, had given up and left the other corners of the intersection.
 ''The response was not great for them,'' said Ms. Grenham, who changed her registration to independent several years ago as she grew more conservative. 
 Voters like Ms. Grenham, who said her activism was driven by concerns about taxes, immigration, national security and health care, have helped make this crucial race too close to call, endangering the Democrats' 60-vote supermajority in the Senate and President Obama's health care overhaul. Mr. Obama came to Boston on Sunday in hopes of rescuing Ms. Coakley's faltering candidacy. ''Understand what's at stake here, Massachusetts,'' Mr. Obama said. 
 Marlborough is the kind of place where many Massachusetts elections are won and lost these days. Democrats outnumber Republicans by three to one in the state, but independent voters now outnumber them both: a majority of the state's voters are no longer members of either party. And the independent vote is particularly strong in places like Marlborough, a small city in the crescent-shaped swath of suburbs surrounding Boston, whose swing voters have tipped the balance one way or the other in several recent statewide elections. Those voters could prove crucial again on Tuesday.
 The lingering economic downturn and unease about the Democrats' muscular return to government power have left many voters here in a sour mood.
 ''It's just tax, tax, tax, and I think the people are just getting sick of it,'' said Richard Gasparoni, 57, an independent who was holding up a Brown sign at another intersection here along Main Street. 
 Mr. Gasparoni, who has lived here all his life and works as a tax manager for a medical device company, said that he had never campaigned for anyone before, but that he was moved to act because he was upset about the state's decision to raise its sales tax, was leery of the health bill in Congress and was fed up with the scandals involving several Democratic state lawmakers. 
 ''I think people have had enough,'' Mr. Gasparoni said.
 States do not get much more Democratic than Massachusetts. Democrats hold every statewide office and control both houses of the legislature with lopsided majorities. The state's entire Congressional delegation is Democratic. 
 But Massachusetts does not always live up to its national stereotype as a bastion of liberalism. Yes, it was the only state to vote for George McGovern for president in 1972, but it also voted twice for Ronald Reagan. Democratic enrollment has fallen from 48 percent of the electorate in 1984 to 37 percent last year. And thanks largely to votes from independent voters in the suburbs, Massachusetts was led by Republican governors for 16 straight years, until Gov. Deval Patrick, a Democrat, broke the streak with his 2006 landslide election. Now Mr. Patrick is dealing with slipping approval ratings as he seeks re-election. 
 In tough times like these, the political hegemony of the Democrats has its risks.
 ''The Democrats are controlling both Washington and Beacon Hill,'' said Joseph Malone, a Republican who served as the state treasurer during the 1990s. ''So if I'm angry as hell about what's going on with our government, who am I going to throw out? Who am I going to vote against? That's a big part of this race.''
 Several political analysts said that it was still possible -- some said it was even likely -- that Ms. Coakley, the state's attorney general, would win on Tuesday, particularly if Mr. Obama's visit helps turn out the Democratic faithful in strongholds like Boston and if Ms. Coakley is able to hold down Mr. Brown's margins among independents. 
 But independent, suburban voters in several other parts of the Northeast voted Republican in November after trending Democratic for years, ousting Gov. Jon Corzine of New Jersey, a Democrat, and unexpectedly returning Nassau County, on Long Island, to Republican rule.
 The possibility of a voter revolt in Massachusetts took many Democrats by surprise: local officials were overwhelmingly re-elected last year. Some worry now that they were too complacent in this race. Special elections like this one usually have small turnouts, but the January blizzard of campaign commercials -- it is not unusual to see three or four in a row during local newscasts -- has whipped up interest in the race. 
 Many of the advertisements are negative, and a sizable portion of them are being paid for by interest groups trying to either pass or block the health care bill.
 Several independent voters said they wanted to elect Mr. Brown to block the health care bill, which they denounced as full of deals for special interests -- though several said they thought Massachusetts' law extending near-universal coverage, one of the models for the national bill, had been largely a success. 
 ''It's not perfect, but why should we have to pay again when we have health care?'' said Ms. Grenham, who works as a physical therapist. 
 Massachusetts was not hit quite as hard as other parts of the country during the recession -- its unemployment rate in November was 8.8 percent, below the national rate of 10 percent -- but there has been no shortage of pain and economic anxiety. Voters have grown restive: a poll released last week by the Suffolk University Political Research Center found that 55 percent of respondents said the state was on the wrong track, up from 44 percent in April 2007.
 Sitting over his coffee at the counter of Main Street Cafe, Michael Corbett, 64, an independent, said he was supporting Mr. Brown based largely on national security issues. Mr. Corbett, a veteran, was already upset by the Obama administration's plans to try some terrorism suspects in civilian courts; he said he was appalled when Ms. Coakley suggested in a debate last week that the terrorists were gone from Afghanistan. 
 ''Her answers on homeland security the other day were a joke,'' he said. ''She had no idea. God almighty, there's no more terrorists in Afghanistan?''
 At his wife's beauty parlor in Framingham, he said, a clientele that had largely supported Mr. Obama last year was now uneasy. And he said that in towns where Obama-Biden lawn signs sprouted just over a year ago, he now saw signs supporting Brown.
 ''That doesn't mean that they're going to get out and vote,'' said Mr. Corbett, who has a business selling industrial maintenance and repair supplies. ''But the signs are out there. It's certainly a difference. The Obama-Biden signs are gone, and I just think the people are sick of this.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Obama headlined a Martha Coakley rally on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 Angela Grenham is among the independent voters supporting a Republican for a Senate seat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); HEALTH CARE LAW (75%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (75%); MEDICAL DEVICES (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); SUBURBS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); SALES TAX (66%); IMMIGRATION (52%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MARTHA COAKLEY (78%); TED KENNEDY (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); AL GORE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



518 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 735 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (USA) TOM BROKAW PRESENTS: AMERICAN CHARACTER ALONG HIGHWAY 50 Mr. Brokaw, above, takes off down a road often called the backbone of America to document the changing political, economic and cultural face of the nation. The 12-state, 3,000-mile journey begins on the Eastern Shore of Maryland and ends in California, passing Civil War battlefields, the Ohio and Mississippi Rivers, the Great Plains and the Great Basin, Wild West towns, the Continental Divide and a part of Nevada where signs proclaim Highway 50 to be the loneliest stretch in America. This hourlong documentary will be followed by ''Dispatches From the Road,'' updates highlighting the people and places Mr. Brokaw visited on his trip.
 1 P.M. (MSG Plus) THE GAME 365: USA HOCKEY ... GOLD RUSH Fran Healy talks with members of the gold-medal-hungry 2010 United States Olympic hockey team, including its captain, Jamie Langenbrunner, and the alternate captain, Zach Parise, both of the New Jersey Devils, as well as Chris Drury and Ryan Callahan of the New York Rangers. 
 8 P.M. (Fox) 24 In Part 2 of the Season 8 premiere Chloe (Mary Lynn Rajskub) develops a lead in connection with the assassination attempt against Omar Hassan (Anil Kapoor, right), the leader of the fictional Islamic Republic of Kamistan, during peace negotiations with President Allison Taylor (Cherry Jones). Jack (Kiefer Sutherland) gets off on the wrong foot with the new bigwig running the counter-terrorist unit, Brian Hastings (Mykelti Williamson), by following up Chloe's idea. 
 9 P.M. (History) AMERICAN PICKERS You know what they say about another person's trash. In this new series, Mike Wolfe and Frank Fritz, who own a business called Antique Archaeology in Iowa, scour the country's junkyards, basements, garages and barns to unearth forgotten treasures -- the rustier the better -- which they restore to their former glory while giving impromptu lessons on American history. In this premiere episode the men buy a Japanese samurai sword from World War II, a vintage Vespa part and a sign emblazoned with the Philip Morris bellhop. Their trick: to pay a lot less than the stuff is worth.
 9 P.M. (CW) LIFE UNEXPECTED After spending her early years being passed from one foster family to another, a 15-year-old, Lux (Britt Robertson), decides to become an emancipated minor. But when a judge says she isn't ready to live on her own, he grants temporary joint custody to Lux's birth parents: her father, Baze (Kristoffer Polaha), an overgrown frat boy who had no idea he had a daughter, and her mother, Cate (Shiri Appleby), a morning-radio star and Baze's high school nemesis, with whom he had a one-night stand. Now it's time to get past the arguing and get on with the parenting. 
 10 P.M. (MTV) THE BURIED LIFE What do you want to do before you die? Four men from Victoria, British Columbia -- Dave Lingwood, Ben Nemtin and the brothers Jonnie and Duncan Penn -- set out with 100 dreams and a promise: for every goal they achieve on their list, they'll help strangers do something on theirs. In this series opener the men try to crash a party at the Playboy mansion before helping a blind person relive a childhood memory of riding a horse. ''My Life as Liz,'' a new series at 10:30, looks at high school through the eyes of Liz Lee, a precocious teenager in a conservative Texas town who is trying to make the best of her senior year among her blonder, meaner, more ''normal'' peers. 
 10 P.M. (13) BENJAMIN LATROBE: AMERICA'S FIRST ARCHITECT Mixing computer animation, interviews with architects and historians, and site visits, Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic for The New Yorker, evaluates the tumultuous life of Latrobe, above, who was born in 1764 and died in 1820. His designs for the central portions of the United States Capitol, the Baltimore Basilica and the White House porticos defined the first uniquely American architecture.
 10:30 P.M. (Sundance) BE GOOD JOHNNY WEIR This new reality series glides and twirls along with Mr. Weir, the United States national figure-skating champion and world medalist, as he fights for a spot on the 2010 Olympic team. (Anyone who follows skating will already know the outcome.) But first, a glimpse of his over-the-top persona, including his sparkly, self-designed costumes portraying both male and female characters, and his controversial routine ''The Swan.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); HISTORY (77%); CIVIL WAR (76%); SPORTS AWARDS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); ASSASSINATION (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (70%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (68%); ARCHAEOLOGY (68%); OLYMPICS (68%); CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (60%); FOSTER CARE (60%); PEACE PROCESS (52%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%); TERRORISM (50%); RELIGION (50%)

ORGANIZATION: USA HOCKEY (56%); NEW JERSEY DEVILS (55%); NEW YORK RANGERS (55%)

PERSON: KIEFER SUTHERLAND (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (70%) MARYLAND, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



519 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: What Didn't Happen

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Lately many people have been second-guessing the Obama administration's political strategy. The conventional wisdom seems to be that President Obama tried to do too much -- in particular, that he should have put health care on one side and focused on the economy. 
 I disagree. The Obama administration's troubles are the result not of excessive ambition, but of policy and political misjudgments. The stimulus was too small; policy toward the banks wasn't tough enough; and Mr. Obama didn't do what Ronald Reagan, who also faced a poor economy early in his administration, did -- namely, shelter himself from criticism with a narrative that placed the blame on previous administrations. 
 About the stimulus: it has surely helped. Without it, unemployment would be much higher than it is. But the administration's program clearly wasn't big enough to produce job gains in 2009.
 Why was the stimulus underpowered? A number of economists (myself included) called for a stimulus substantially bigger than the one the administration ended up proposing. According to The New Yorker's Ryan Lizza, however, in December 2008 Mr. Obama's top economic and political advisers concluded that a bigger stimulus was neither economically necessary nor politically feasible. 
 Their political judgment may or may not have been correct; their economic judgment obviously wasn't. Whatever led to this misjudgment, however, it wasn't failure to focus on the issue: in late 2008 and early 2009 the Obama team was focused on little else. The administration wasn't distracted; it was just wrong.
 The same can be said about policy toward the banks. Some economists defend the administration's decision not to take a harder line on banks, arguing that the banks are earning their way back to financial health. But the light-touch approach to the financial industry further entrenched the power of the very institutions that caused the crisis, even as it failed to revive lending: bailed-out banks have been reducing, not increasing, their loan balances. And it has had disastrous political consequences: the administration has placed itself on the wrong side of popular rage over bailouts and bonuses. 
 Finally, about that narrative: It's instructive to compare Mr. Obama's rhetorical stance on the economy with that of Ronald Reagan. It's often forgotten now, but unemployment actually soared after Reagan's 1981 tax cut. Reagan, however, had a ready answer for critics: everything going wrong was the result of the failed policies of the past. In effect, Reagan spent his first few years in office continuing to run against Jimmy Carter.
 Mr. Obama could have done the same -- with, I'd argue, considerably more justice. He could have pointed out, repeatedly, that the continuing troubles of America's economy are the result of a financial crisis that developed under the Bush administration, and was at least in part the result of the Bush administration's refusal to regulate the banks. 
 But he didn't. Maybe he still dreams of bridging the partisan divide; maybe he fears the ire of pundits who consider blaming your predecessor for current problems uncouth -- if you're a Democrat. (It's O.K. if you're a Republican.) Whatever the reason, Mr. Obama has allowed the public to forget, with remarkable speed, that the economy's troubles didn't start on his watch.
 So where do complaints of an excessively broad agenda fit into all this? Could the administration have made a midcourse correction on economic policy if it hadn't been fighting battles on health care? Probably not. One key argument of those pushing for a bigger stimulus plan was that there would be no second chance: if unemployment remained high, they warned, people would conclude that stimulus doesn't work rather than that we needed a bigger dose. And so it has proved.
 It's important to remember, also, how important health care reform is to the Democratic base. Some activists have been left disillusioned by the compromises made to get legislation through the Senate -- but they would have been even more disillusioned if Democrats had simply punted on the issue. 
 And politics should be about more than winning elections. Even if health care reform loses Democrats votes (which is questionable), it's the right thing to do.
 So what comes next? 
 At this point Mr. Obama probably can't do much about job creation. He can, however, push hard on financial reform, and seek to put himself back on the right side of public anger by portraying Republicans as the enemies of reform -- which they are. 
 And meanwhile, Democrats have to do whatever it takes to enact a health care bill. Passing such a bill won't be their political salvation -- but not passing a bill would surely be their political doom. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BAILOUT BONUSES (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); RONALD REAGAN (89%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



520 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 18, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 892 words

HEADLINE: Iraq's Ban on Democracy

BYLINE: By KENNETH M. POLLACK and MICHAEL E. O'HANLON. 
Kenneth M. Pollack is the director of research at the Saban Center for Middle East Policy at the Brookings Institution. Michael E. O'Hanlon is a senior fellow at Brookings.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 WITH Washington's attention understandably focused on the tragedy in Haiti, Iraq has slipped onto the back burner. Yet there is a major problem brewing there -- one that could jeopardize President Obama's plan to draw down American forces and even reignite sectarian conflict.
 Last Thursday, Iraq's Independent High Election Commission upheld a ban on nearly 500 Sunni politicians handed down (possibly illegally) some days earlier by the Accountability and Justice Commission. They were accused of having had ties to the Baath Party of Saddam Hussein. Among those proscribed from running in the nationwide elections scheduled for March 7 were Defense Minister Abdul-Kader Jassem al-Obeidi and Saleh al-Mutlaq, one of Iraq's most influential Sunni politicians. Although confusion reigns, it is rumored that the brief appeal process will end Tuesday and, at present, it seems unlikely to ameliorate the situation. 
 The two commissions are dominated by officials appointed by Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki, so it's not surprising that many Iraqis believe that the prime minister's Shiite-dominated government is disqualifying large numbers of political rivals, particularly Mr. Mutlaq, who had already allied himself with Ayad Allawi, a former prime minister widely considered Mr. Maliki's most dangerous foe. There is no evidence of this, but the perception is widespread and in Iraq, perception can do as much damage as reality. Meanwhile, many informed Americans and Iraqis are pointing to Ahmed Chalabi, the one-time political favorite of the Bush administration, as the real culprit. Mr. Chalabi, they say, is trying to manipulate the elections to become prime minister by default.
 It's true that many of the disqualified politicians were once Baathists. But Iraq needs reconciliation, not payback. Any bans must be careful, selective and well-explained. They should not disqualify people like the defense minister -- a former Baathist, but one who turned against the party in the 1990s and was imprisoned and tortured by the regime. Moreover, in recent years he has served the new Iraqi government loyally. 
 Before the surge of American troops in 2007 and the so-called Anbar Awakening, many Iraqi Sunnis boycotted Iraq's elections in the belief that the system was rigged against them. This created a self-fulfilling prophecy when the elections took place without them and the resulting government was dominated by Shiite and Kurdish groups. This vicious cycle helped fuel civil war. 
 All of that changed after 2007, when American-brokered cease-fires and political shifts convinced Sunnis that they would have a fair opportunity to elect their own leaders and participate in government at no disadvantage. In the provincial elections of January 2009, Sunnis finally voted in large numbers. Their return to the political process has been a key element in the rapid erosion of sectarianism from Iraqi politics. The end of the civil war and the need to focus on political and economic reconstruction had revealed sharp differences among the various Shiite groups, which have been heightened by the emergence of Sunni parties with similarly varied views.
 As a result, there has been a complete reorganization of Iraqi politics over the past year, with Shiite, Sunni and even some Kurdish groups creating cross-sectarian alliances that have largely replaced the previous sectarian blocs. It was a sign of this progress that Sunni parties, particularly Mr. Mutlaq's, were being courted avidly by a number of Shiite and secular parties, including those led by Mr. Maliki and Mr. Allawi.
 If the ban is allowed to stand, it will do more than just throw a wrench in the works. It will persuade a great many Iraqis that the prime minister or other Shiites, like Mr. Chalabi, are using their control over the electoral mechanics to kneecap their rivals. It may also convince many Sunnis that they will never be allowed to win if they play by the rules, and that violence is their only option. 
 That is an extraordinarily dangerous message to send right now, when the United States is trying hard to withdraw tens of thousands more American troops from Iraq and shift 50,000 or so from combat operations to advisory and training roles. If this ban remains in effect, the likelihood of electoral violence will skyrocket, and American soldiers will inevitably be called on to halt it. 
 All is not yet lost -- over the past few years, Iraqi politicians have developed a penchant for last-minute compromise that has turned a number of near-catastrophes into mere close calls. In every one of those instances, however, it required rapid and determined American pressure to avert disaster. 
 The American Embassy in Baghdad is working feverishly to persuade the Iraqis to change course. Time is of the essence -- especially if the Accountability and Justice Commission's appeals process ends on Tuesday. If the United States doesn't act before the deadline, the bans will become much harder to roll back.
 The threat of crisis is real enough that Vice President Joe Biden, who has played a useful role in backing up Ambassador Christopher Hill on several occasions lately, will have to help. It even merits direct involvement by President Obama. It is just this kind of seemingly small problem that could unravel the entire political fabric of Iraq. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); CIVIL WAR (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (76%); BOYCOTTS (66%); TORTURE (50%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (72%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%); HAITI (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010



521 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1151 words

HEADLINE: Managing Disasters With Small Steps

BYLINE: By HENRY FOUNTAIN

 BODY:
A week ago, Elizabeth Sheehan, the founder of Containers to Clinics, a nonprofit organization in Dover, Mass., was preparing to deploy the group's first medical clinic overseas. Made from two shipping containers, it was to be sent to the Dominican Republic, where it would begin to fulfill the group's long-term goal of building health care infrastructure in developing countries through networks of small container clinics in rural areas.
 Then, last Tuesday, a magnitude 7 earthquake struck the Dominican Republic's neighbor, Haiti. Hospitals in the capital, Port-au-Prince, were destroyed or damaged, and basic medical care was practically nonexistent. Ms. Sheehan said her donors immediately started calling her. ''They all said, 'Why don't you send it there?' '' she said.
 Now, the group may dispatch the clinic, which has two examining rooms, a laboratory and a pharmacy, to Port-au-Prince if a medical team and supplies can be arranged. 
 ''It can be used in this disaster situation,'' Ms. Sheehan said, and then left in Haiti or sent on to Bani, on the Dominican Republic's south coast, to fulfill the original mission. ''We are committed to long-term primary health care for women and children.''
 Containers to Clinics is one of many innovative approaches to building or rebuilding infrastructure in developing countries, to help forestall disasters or, as in Haiti, recover from one. Among them are new ideas and projects to supply quality housing, clean water, proper waste treatment and affordable energy, in addition to health care. 
 Their promoters share a belief that while the conventional top-down approach, by governments and large relief agencies coming in with large projects, works for initial relief and recovery, long-term reconstruction -- ''building back better,'' in the parlance of redevelopment specialists -- requires more involvement of local people.
 ''You can't just sweep in from outside and drop something in and say, 'This is exactly what you need,' '' said Laura Sampath, manager of the International Development Initiative at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''It has to be almost driven from the community.''
 The M.I.T. effort includes the D-Lab, whose instructors and students work on low-tech solutions to infrastructure problems and spend time in the field implementing them. Among the projects are ones to manufacture ceramic water filters in Ghana; install chlorine dispensers to treat drinking water in Kenya; and develop a bicilavadora, a pedal-powered washing machine, in Peru.
 ''We're graduating engineers who realize it's important to talk to people first,'' Ms. Sampath said.
 Ms. Sheehan said converting old shipping containers into clinics was just a first step; her group must find doctors and nurses to staff them, as well as drugs and supplies. ''We're committed to putting in the human system as well,'' she said. So partnerships with local health groups are crucial.
 At the Appropriate Infrastructure Development Group, a small nonprofit organization in San Francisco, projects are also developed from the ground up by providing support to local entrepreneurs, said Peter Haas, its founder. 
 Mr. Haas spoke while traveling to Haiti, where, before the earthquake, his group had been set to announce a competition for local entrepreneurs to develop plans for infrastructure projects. The competition has been delayed, and the group has added a new category: earthquake-resistant housing.
 In Haiti, Mr. Haas's group has already been helping Coopen, a business cooperative in Cap Haitien that will collect organic waste and human waste from public toilets and convert it to biogas, a fuel, for cooking. And in Guatemala, the group has aided a small company, XelaTeco, that builds hydroelectric projects for rural villages.
 ''We're really not trying to dump some new expert solution on the population,'' Mr. Haas said. Working through local businesses, he said, ensures that ideas that do not work do not stay around. ''If a business fails and the market doesn't accept the product, it disappears,'' he said.
 Malcolm G. Anderson, a professor in the School of Geophysical Sciences at the University of Bristol in England, said: ''With a bit of support, the poorest people can provide infrastructure, they can do things. The fundamental thing is to change people's behavior'' by involving them in the effort. 
 With help from the World Bank, Dr. Anderson has undertaken projects in St. Lucia and elsewhere in the Caribbean to reduce disaster risk in hilly shantytowns. These unplanned urban areas typically have no drainage infrastructure, and heavy rains can saturate the ground, leading to mudslides.
 Dr. Anderson's solution is to help local people understand the drainage problem, work with them to design a solution (usually involving a simple network of drains to move rainwater off risky slopes) and hire them to build it. ''People have a really good understanding of the fundamentals of what's going on,'' he said.
 Many of these infrastructure projects are small in scale, dwarfed by the scope of disasters like the earthquake in Haiti. But some redevelopment specialists say that by training government and relief agency officials in their bottom-up methods, the efforts can be scaled up.
 After studying reconstruction work in western India following a 2001 earthquake that killed more than 20,000 people, Elizabeth A. Hausler, an engineer, founded Build Change to help communities build earthquake-resistant housing. In India, she found that the top-down approach did not work. ''Homeowners were not really involved,'' she said. ''Contractors would swoop in and build a bunch of houses for people and leave.''
 Those houses were often not appropriate for the culture or the climate, she said. For example, they might have the main door on the street, when homeowners wanted it on the courtyard. ''If a door is in the wrong place, then the homeowner is going to knock a hole in the wall -- and that's not good for the structure,'' she said.
 Dr. Hausler's approach, carried out in Indonesia after the 2004 earthquake and tsunami and in China after the 2008 Sichuan quake, has been to involve homeowners in the design and building process, modifying traditional designs to improve earthquake resistance. Along the way she has trained aid officials and worked with local governments to enforce building standards. ''That was a good way of reaching more homeowners,'' she said.
 Her organization is now developing a plan to help rebuild homes in Haiti, where many of the destroyed buildings were made of concrete block, without adequate reinforcement against shaking. ''I imagine we'll have the same kind of program in Haiti,'' she said.
 She said she was convinced that the bottom-up method was best for rebuilding after that kind of disaster: ''Really, you'd have to have your head in the sand to not buy into this approach.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PORTABLE: This clinic includes two examining rooms, a laboratory and a pharmacy. Containers to Clinics of Dover, Mass., may soon send it to Haiti. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CONTAINERS TO CLINICS) (D1)
AFTERSHOCK: Ronald Laventure, 15, was evacuated from a private clinic on Saturday in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, four days after a magnitude 7 earthquake. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); COASTAL AREAS (75%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (73%); HOSPITALS (73%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (72%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); EARTHQUAKES (71%); WATER QUALITY (66%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (94%); HAITI (92%); KENYA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



522 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ITINERARIES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1062 words

HEADLINE: Even More Room at the Inn

BYLINE: By JANE L. LEVERE

 BODY:
Though it may seem counterintuitive at a time when many hotels around the country are having trouble filling their rooms, nearly 100 hotels are scheduled to open in major American cities this year.
 New York will have the most new hotels, 46, according to Smith Travel Research, a hotel research company in Hendersonville, Tenn., followed by Houston, with 30. New hotels are opening as well in Atlanta, Boston, Chicago, Dallas, Los Angeles, Miami and Washington. That does not include new hotels opening in the suburbs of these cities. 
 So how can so many hotels be opening even though the economy and travel remain so slow? 
 The answer, according to Mark Lomanno, president of Smith Travel Research, is that ''hotel building cycles rarely mesh just right with economic cycles.'' Planning a new hotel can take two to four years, and construction an additional one to four years. Most of the hotels getting ready to open were on the drawing boards several years ago, when the economy was healthy, demand for rooms was strong and room rates were rising quickly.
 And once construction is under way, said Sean Hennessey, chief executive of Lodging Advisors, a New York consulting company, there really is no better alternative than to finish.
 ''Once you put the foundation in the ground and start with construction, from an investment point of view, it almost always makes the most sense to proceed, even if market demand appears shaky,'' he said, ''because a completed and operating hotel can generate some revenue to defray development costs.''
 For the time being, all the new hotels will add to what was already a buyer's market. Travel experts agreed that business and leisure travelers could generally expect a broader choice of rooms at better prices than a couple of years ago. 
 The lodging markets in New York and Houston were particularly ripe several years ago for hotel growth. In New York, occupancy levels were 85 percent from 2004 through 2008, and the average daily room rate rose 86 percent in those years, said Bjorn Hanson, a clinical associate professor at the Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. Developers, he said, believed that these conditions ''created a safe, secure investment environment.'' 
 As a result, this year's hotel expansion is the largest in New York, Mr. Hanson said. The new hotels represent most of the major chains, according to Smith Travel Research. Marriott, for instance, will open five hotels in the city under the Courtyard and Fairfield Inn brands, it said. InterContinental will open four hotels, including a 592-room InterContinental in Times Square, and others under the Holiday Inn Express and Staybridge Suites brands; and Hyatt will open four hotels, two under the Andaz brand and two under the Hyatt Place brand, Smith Travel Research said. 
 Starwood says it is opening six hotels under the Sheraton, Four Points by Sheraton, Aloft, W and Element brands. InterContinental declined to comment on its plans, and Hyatt would not confirm the Hyatt Place openings.
 Houston's new hotels have different roots. Demand from thriving energy companies was a big factor, Mr. Lomanno said.
 ''What compounded the issue,'' he added, ''was people relocating to Houston after Hurricane Katrina and staying in hotels. It made occupancy rates unusually high and made the hotel market as an investment more attractive.''
 According to Smith Travel Research, Marriott will open eight new hotels in Houston this year, under the Marriott, Courtyard, Fairfield Inn, Residence Inn and Springhill Suites brands, while InterContinental will open 14 hotels, under the Candlewood Suites, Holiday Inn, Holiday Inn Express and Staybridge Suites brands.
 With hotel capacity in New York expected to rise more than 12 percent this year, Mr. Hanson predicted that consumers would be the immediate beneficiaries. ''In general, new hotels will use discounting to try to gain initial market share,'' he said. ''This will last a long time, because there is no imminent occupancy recovery. And existing hotels will face increased price competition from new hotels, which will require additional discounting.'' 
 Mr. Hennessey, of Lodging Advisors, said he expected that discounting would also occur in Houston. 
 Projections for recovery of the American hotel industry as a whole in 2010 vary greatly. Mr. Lomanno said the industry ''reached the bottom of the cycle a few months ago.'' He said he expected occupancies to ''slightly improve nationally by midyear, and the decline in rates should stop no later than the end of the year.''
 Although he said New York tended to be the ''room rate leader as we come out of a recession, maybe that won't be the case this time around.''
 David Katz, lodging analyst for Oppenheimer & Company, estimated that revenue for each available hotel room in the United States would drop 5 percent from last year and that occupancies would be flat. 
 But Steven Kent, lodging analyst for Goldman Sachs, predicted that ''corporate and leisure travel will outpace the broader economy'' this year, and revenue for each available room at all North American hotels would rise 4 to 5 percent, with occupancy increases responsible for most of that gain.
 Not surprisingly, hotel company executives are bullish. Tony Capuano, executive vice president of global development for Marriott, predicted that its two new hotels in Los Angeles, an 878-room J. W. Marriott opening next month and a 123-room Ritz-Carlton opening in March, would stimulate ''a meaningful volume of group demand'' downtown.
 Steve Haggerty, global head of real estate and development for Hyatt, said: ''New York's ability to find equilibrium is always going to be quite strong. It will never be permanently overbuilt. Pricing power will come back. Right now, the question is when.''
 Hyatt, which manages the Grand Hyatt on 42nd Street in Manhattan, opened a 253-room Andaz at 75 Wall Street last week and will open a second, 184-room Andaz on Fifth Avenue and 41st Street in June. 
 But the current buyer's market will not last, Mr. Lomanno said, because not a lot of new hotel rooms will be added from 2011 to 2013. That will mean ''more rapid acceleration'' of room rates, he said.
 ''There's short-term benefit for travelers,'' he said, ''but not in the medium to long term.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hyatt opened an Andaz in New York last week. Dozens of other hotels are slated to open in the city this year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); LODGING (78%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); AVERAGE DAILY ROOM RATES (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); SPORTS BUSINESS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); SPORTS (50%); SPORTS & RECREATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



523 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: Agency Combines Clients' Stocks For a Mini-Mutual Fund

BYLINE: By STUART ELLIOTT

 BODY:
FORGET about the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index or the Dow Jones industrial average. The latest gauge of Wall Street performance -- at least on Madison Avenue -- is the K.B.S.& P. Client Stock Index.
 K.B.S. & who? K.B.S.& P. is short for Kirshenbaum Bond Senecal & Partners in New York, part of MDC Partners. It is only coincidental that the S.& P. in the abbreviation echoes the shorthand term for Standard & Poor's. 
 The index, scheduled to be introduced on Tuesday, is intended to track the performance in the stock market of shares of companies that are publicly traded and clients of the agency. Eighteen of its more than 30 clients have stock that is traded on exchanges, among them BMW, Cablevision, Capital One Financial, Diageo, Kao Brands, TJX and Weight Watchers.
 What makes the index interesting is that it is not a fanciful construct but a real portfolio, a mini-mutual fund that will have its own ticket symbol, KBSPX. Agency executives are opening a brokerage account with another client, the Vanguard Group, into which will be deposited 300 shares of each of the 18 companies. 
 The 300 employees of Kirshenbaum Bond will be offered long-term cash and compensation incentives to mirror the performance of the stocks in the index, which they will be able to track each trading day on an intranet on the agency's Web site.
 MDC is spending an estimated $500,000 to start the index, which includes contributing four restricted shares of MDC stock to the fund for each Kirshenbaum Bond employee, for a total of 1,200 shares.
 The index is a version of efforts by a growing number of agencies to put skin in the game by showing clients they are willing to be paid based on how their work performs in the marketplace. Other examples include agencies taking ownership stakes in client companies or sharing revenue from the sales of products they advertise.
 ''We've been hearing from a lot of clients that they want more accountability,'' said Lori Senecal, who came to Kirshenbaum Bond in August as president and chief executive. ''They need us to own their challenges.''
 ''The index is a tangible way to add that belief to our culture,'' she added. The index is among steps Ms. Senecal is taking since she joined Kirshenbaum Bond from McCann Erickson Worldwide to, as she put it, ''reinterpret its heritage in the service of the marketing needs of the future.'' Translation: shake things up.
 The agency, which gained a reputation in its early years for cheeky work like the ''Wendy the Snapple lady'' campaign for Snapple beverages, has been on a roller coaster more recently with gains of accounts like Vanguard offset by losses of clients like the Wendy's fast-food chain.
 ''Agencies either go forward or backward; they don't stay the same,'' said Richard Kirshenbaum, who shares the title of co-chairman at Kirshenbaum Bond with Jon Bond. Although ''we're a very healthy and successful agency, and a very profitable one,'' Mr. Kirshenbaum said, ''it's time to have renewed energy and spirit at a time when the landscape is changing'' for the advertising business.
 The index was the brainchild of two Kirshenbaum Bond employees: Aric Cheston, partner and creative director, and Matt Powell, chief technologist. They will each receive a cash bonus of $10,000 from MDC.
 Starting an agency mutual fund was among 50 ideas presented by employees at a crowd-sourcing meeting in October that sought proposals to help revitalize Kirshenbaum Bond from everyone who works there.
 Ms. Senecal is also adopting another idea from the meeting: The agency will devote the hours of 10 a.m. to noon each Friday to ''hot housing,'' as employees divide into groups and brainstorm new approaches for clients.''It's motivating all levels of the organization from the bottom up,'' said Miles S. Nadal, chairman and chief executive at MDC in Toronto. ''If you want a behavior, you should create economic incentives to reward that behavior.''
 MDC will look into ''rolling this out on a broader basis,'' Mr. Nadal said, by starting similar indexes and funds at its other agencies.
 Among other moves by Ms. Senecal since she arrived at Kirshenbaum Bond were the hiring of Mick McCabe, a partner at Deutsch in New York, as the agency's first chief strategy officer, and bringing in Marc Lucas, executive creative director at the New York office of Razorfish, as chief creative officer, assuming those duties from Mr. Kirshenbaum.
 Kirshenbaum Bond has landed two major assignments under Ms. Senecal. One expanded the agency's relationship with Capital One, which awarded Kirshenbaum Bond the task of creating ads in print, radio, digital and out-of-home media. The other assignment was to be agency of record in the United States for Vanguard.
 Kirshenbaum Bond ''understands our business metrics,'' said Sean Hagerty, principal in retail marketing at Vanguard in Valley Forge, Pa., and knows how to ''focus on how do we most efficiently and effectively talk to our audiences in a financially responsible manner.''
 The agency's first work for Vanguard is being developed, he added, and could begin appearing in March. (Vanguard's shares are not in the portfolio because the company is privately held.)
 As Kirshenbaum Bond employees watch the index, they may learn a lesson in the stock market: How the shares of a company fare does not always correspond to how the company is doing.
 One way gyrations could be mitigated is that ''the index is based on a number of clients in diversified industries,'' Mr. Nadal of MDC said.
 Besides, the index is intended to be ''a long-term retention mechanism'' for employees and ''value is created over a longer period of time,'' he added. ''As Warren Buffett says, in the short term the stock market is a voting machine but in the long term it's a weighting machine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lori Senecal, the head of Kirshenbaum Bond, began a special stock index, the brainchild of two employees: Aric Cheston, left, and Matt Powell, right.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PETER WORTMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MUTUAL FUNDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (90%); BONDS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%); DIETING (53%)

COMPANY: CAPITAL ONE FINANCIAL CORP (69%); MDC PARTNERS INC (57%); KAO BRANDS CO (56%); DIAGEO PLC (56%); VANGUARD GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: COF (NYSE) (69%); MDZ.A (TSX) (57%); MDCA (NASDAQ) (57%); DGE (PAR) (56%); DGE (LSE) (56%); DEO (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (57%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (57%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (57%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (56%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (56%); SIC2085 DISTILLED & BLENDED LIQUORS (56%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (56%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



524 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 873 words

HEADLINE: More Men Marrying Better Educated, Wealthier Wives

BYLINE: By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
Beagy Zielinski is a German-born 28-year-old stylist who moved to New York to study fashion in 1995 and stayed. Just before Christmas, she broke up with her blue-collar boyfriend, who repaired Navy ships. 
 ''He was extremely insecure about my career and how successful I am,'' Ms. Zielinski said. 
 An analysis of census data to be released Tuesday by the Pew Research Center found that she and countless women like her are victims of a role reversal that is profoundly affecting the pool of potential marriage partners. 
 ''Men now are increasingly likely to marry wives with more education and income than they have, and the reverse is true for women,'' said Paul Fucito, spokesman for the Pew Center. ''In recent decades, with the rise of well-paid working wives, the economic gains of marriage have been a greater benefit for men.''
 The analysis examines Americans 30 to 44 years old, the first generation in which more women than men have college degrees. Women's earnings have been increasing faster than men's since the 1970s. 
 ''We've known for some time that men need marriage more than women from the standpoint of physical and mental well-being,'' said Stephanie Coontz, a professor at Evergreen State College in Olympia, Wash., and research director for the Council on Contemporary Families, a research and advocacy group. ''Now it is becoming increasingly important to their economic well-being as well.'' 
 The education and income gap has grown even more in the latest recession, when men held about three in four of the jobs that were lost. The Census Bureau said Friday that among married couples with children, only the wife worked in 7 percent of the households last year, compared with 5 percent in 2007. The percentage rose to 12 percent from 9 percent for blacks, among whom the education and income gap by gender has typically been even greater. 
 ''I'm not married, I would like to be married, and my friends are all in a similar situation,'' said Dr. Rajalla Prewitt, a 38-year-old psychiatrist in New Jersey. ''We're having difficulty finding someone where there's a meeting of the minds, where we can have the same goals and values.'' 
 ''Particularly, African-American men who are educated want a traditional home where they are the breadwinner,'' said Dr. Prewitt, who is a black woman.
 In 2007, the Pew report found, median household incomes of married men, married women and unmarried women were all about 60 percent higher than in 1970. But among unmarried men, median household income rose by only 16 percent. These days, men who marry typically gain another breadwinner.
 In 1970, 28 percent of wives had husbands who were better educated, and 20 percent were married to men with less education. By 2007, the comparable figures were 19 percent and 28 percent. In 1970, 4 percent of husbands had wives who made more money; in 2007, 22 percent did.
 College-educated wives are less likely to have a husband who is college-educated and in the highest income bracket than they were in 1970, and married women are less likely to have a husband who works.
 ''Among all married couples,'' the report said, ''wives contribute a growing share of the household income, and a rising share of those couples include a wife who earns more than her husband.''
 While marriage rates have declined over all, women with college degrees are still more likely to marry today than less educated women. 
 But some women find that the dating pressures are intense. Syreeta McFadden, a 35-year-old Columbia and Sarah Lawrence graduate who is between jobs after working in real estate development, said: ''With men of any ethnic group, it's a little intimidating for them to encounter smart women. Money is tricky. 
 ''But, I think for me, it comes down to compatibility,'' Ms. McFadden said. ''Can you grow with me? Or as my genius friend the textile designer says, she asks on first dates or meeting men in bars, 'Do you have a passport and a library card?' ''
 Elaine Richardson, who is in her 50s, is divorced and owns a health care consulting firm in Westchester, said that men ''call you high maintenance if you look like you don't need anyone to take care of you.'' 
 Professor Coontz at Evergreen State recalled that from the late 19th century through the 1940s, it was not uncommon for a woman to finish high school or go to college and marry a man who made more but was less educated.
 ''This changed in the 1950s to 1970, as financial returns to education really mounted for men, but not for women,'' Professor Coontz said. 
 The latest shift, Professor Coontz said, ''is truly a sea change in gender relations within marriage.''
 ''Many people have worried that men's increasing dependence on their wives, especially if they are laid off, might lead to the kind of backlash against women workers that happened in the Great Depression,'' Professor Coontz said. ''But I think that wives' work has become so normative that this is unlikely.''
 Ms. Zielinski, the fashion stylist, said her best friend, a man, told her once: '' 'You are confident, have good credit, own your own business, travel around the world and are self-sufficient. What man is going to want you?' He laughed, but I found that pretty depressing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beagy Zielinski, a stylist in New York, says a relationship did not work out because her boyfriend was insecure about her success. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (91%); WOMEN (90%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (89%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (88%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CENSUS (77%); CHRISTMAS (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); FAMILY (75%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (75%); MEN (75%); CHILDREN (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); MENTAL HEALTH (65%); TALKS & MEETINGS (64%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (62%); NAVAL VESSELS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (90%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



525 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1011 words

HEADLINE: The Uses and Misuses of the Filibuster

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Mr. Smith Rewrites the Constitution'' (Op-Ed, Jan. 11):
 Thomas Geoghegan's article is right on the mark. The 60-vote requirement currently disabling the functioning of the Senate is a relatively recent development and a nefarious one in American politics. It threatens to immobilize action in the face of crisis and should be rejected by both parties. 
 A democratic society can survive and flourish only if it can act. Inaction at such times of crisis leads to despair and threatens to encourage the rise of extremist movements, both of the left and of the right. It should be rejected by both parties, but alas the Republicans have become so power-hungry that they will use any method to regain power. 
 Let the elected party rule, within constitutional limits, and be judged by the electorate at the appropriate time and place.
 Herbert D. Saltzstein Scarsdale, N.Y., Jan. 11, 2010
 The writer is a professor of psychology at the CUNY Graduate School.
 To the Editor:
 Thomas Geoghegan argues that the filibuster rule, which requires 60 senators to end debate, is inconsistent with the Constitution, because the Constitution expressly provides for supermajority rules in specific cases and because the vice president is given a casting vote in cases of a tie. Both arguments are wrong. 
 Each house of Congress has the right under Article I to make rules for its own proceedings. That the Constitution sometimes requires a supermajority rule does not negate a house's authority to impose such a voting rule at other times any more than the requirement that the president report to Congress about the ''State of the Union'' precludes the president's legislative communications on other matters. 
 The casting provision tells how to resolve ties, but does not suggest that all votes in the Senate must be capable of being equally divided, particularly because the Constitution itself, as in cases of impeachment, contemplates votes that cannot be so resolved. 
 John O. McGinnis Chicago, Jan. 11, 2010
 The writer is a professor at Northwestern Law School.
 To the Editor:
 The problem with the filibuster is not constitutional; it is political. The rule doesn't need to be abolished or changed. Sometimes minorities do deserve to be heard. But the minority has power only if the majority cannot organize itself. The Democrats need to think politically and use this tool to their advantage.
 My memory of filibusters is of the great civil rights filibusters in the 1960s. I learned then that when fundamental rights are at stake, the discussion has to pass through a crisis.
 So let's face it: this is a parallel with those great debates. A powerful economic minority in this country wants to deny the people a basic human right: health care. Make the minority stand up and say it opposes extending a basic right to the people. Let this issue reach a boiling point. 
 After the people watch a filibuster for a few days, perhaps some political elbow grease can move things along. The younger generation also needs to realize that there is political work to be done. This one really matters for the people.
 Joan C. Tronto Minneapolis, Jan. 11, 2010
 The writer is a professor of political science at the University of Minnesota.
 To the Editor: 
 Thomas Geoghegan raises legitimate constitutional questions about the antimajoritarian implications of the Senate's filibuster rules. Curiously, he ignores a more egregious example of antimajoritarianism in the Senate's health care bill, which he supports: ''[I]t shall not be in order in the Senate or the House of Representatives to consider any bill, resolution, amendment or conference report that would repeal or otherwise change'' the provision establishing a Medicare Advisory Board (which is charged with cutting costs or, some might say, rationing).
 Today's Democratic majority, with Mr. Geoghegan's tacit acceptance, trivializes the notion of democracy by barring future majorities in perpetuity from fulfilling their legislative duties. If Mr. Geoghegan truly wants to preserve majority rule, he should protest its most flagrant abuse rather than rules, whatever their infirmities, that have been used in their current form by both political parties for 35 years.
 Robert A. Levy Naples, Fla., Jan. 11, 2010
 The writer is chairman of the Cato Institute.
 To the Editor:
 As demonstrated by Thomas Geoghegan, the filibuster rule is unconstitutional. Why, then, is this antidemocratic outrage allowed to continue? Because it is cherished -- not by just a few but by most if not all senators, for the potential leverage it may afford any of them on some future issue. 
 It is all very well to be angry these days with, say, Senator Joseph I. Lieberman. But any single senator has standing to raise a point of order challenging the unconstitutional 60-vote rule, and every single senator choosing not to is complicit in the continuing hijacking of our democracy. 
 Senators take an oath to the Constitution. Who among them will honor that oath?
 Patrick A. McGraw Cleveland Heights, Ohio, Jan. 11, 2010
 The writer is a lawyer.
 To the Editor:
 Thomas Geoghegan rightly decries the rise of the filibuster and makes a good argument that the current dysfunctional Senate is at least inconsistent with the intent of our founding fathers. But a Supreme Court case declaring the filibuster unconstitutional may not be necessary. There is a much simpler, albeit much more difficult solution -- get senators to do their job. 
 The reason filibusters are now so easy is that senators have come to define their job as going to the Senate floor only when they want to speak or when there is a vote. Real debate has become a thing of the past. If senators were actually present on the Senate floor -- and there are ways to force that if the public were actually to demand it -- filibusters would become much more difficult, and probably much more rare.
 Bill Mattea Glenview, Ill., Jan. 11, 2010
 The writer spent 25 years working for Democratic senators and committees in the 1970s, '80s and '90s.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JAMES LAWRENCE HUGHES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); WRITERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



526 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1232 words

HEADLINE: Yemen's Fountain of Ideas, With Learned and Radical Spouts

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: SANA, Yemen 

 BODY:
The mosque at Al Eman University is larger than a football field, an immense warehouse with breeze-block walls, a tin roof and industrial lighting. On Fridays, more than 4,000 men come to pray, lining up along the marks on the figured green carpet, giving each enough room to prostrate himself toward Mecca.
 The devotions of such a crowd are a powerful message of faith and solidarity. Most are dressed in national costume, white robes and embroidered shawls for Yemenis and Arabs, tribal robes for some Africans, crocheted prayer caps for the Asians.
 This university, the size of a village, was founded in 1993 by Sheik Abdul Majid al-Zindani, a revered spiritual leader, theological adviser to Osama bin Laden and co-founder of the main Yemeni opposition party, Islah. In 2004, the United States Treasury put Mr. Zindani on a list of ''specially designated global terrorists'' for suspected fund-raising for Al Qaeda and other terrorist groups. The university itself is a good symbol of the complications of Yemen, its need to strike a balance between conservative Islam and an increased American involvement. 
 The radical American-born Internet preacher Anwar al-Awlaki took classes and gave lectures here in 2004 and 2005, when a young Nigerian, Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab -- who later tried to blow up an airliner over Detroit on Dec. 25 -- was in Sana studying Arabic. There is no firm evidence that they met then, or even last summer, when Mr. Abdulmutallab returned before heading off to Qaeda training camps, where he probably did meet Mr. Awlaki; the school denies that they ever met here.
 John Walker Lindh, the American who was captured fighting for the Taliban in Afghanistan in 2001, studied here before fighting the Americans, and in general the university is seen as a center for jihadist ideas. While the school says lectures are only for students, the mosque is open to all Muslims.
 The university has more than 4,000 students and teaches courses in Islam and Western disciplines, sometimes trying to meld the two. Sheik Zindani, thought to be 59 and favoring a long dyed beard, is well known for his effort to prove that the Koran predicts Western scientific discoveries, and he has claimed to have cured AIDS. One of his books, translated shakily into English, with charts about the ruminant stomach of the cow, photosynthesis and other scientific discoveries, is called ''Signs & Mericals [sic] of Prophet Messenger, Peace be Upon Him.''
 Hood Abu Ras, who runs Sheik Zindani's university office, denies that Mr. Abdulmutallab was ever here, or that anything happens at Al Eman except scholarship. ''Has the U.S. ever produced any evidence of Sheik Zindani's involvement in terror?'' Mr. Abu Ras asked. As for Al Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, an alliance of Saudi and Yemeni Qaeda operatives, he said, ''It gets more propaganda than it deserves.'' The sheik himself, at a recent news conference, said he opposed foreign forces in Yemen. ''We accept any cooperation in the framework of respect and joint interests, and we reject military occupation of our country,'' he said, adding: ''Yemen's rulers and people must be careful before a guardianship is imposed on them'' by foreigners.
 He was blunter in Friday Prayer at another mosque, when he warned of an American plot to occupy Yemen, based on a London conference scheduled for Jan. 28 whose stated subject is Afghanistan. 
 ''The U.K. request for an international conference on Yemen is meant to pave the way for a U.N. Security Council resolution to approve an occupation of Yemen and to put it under a U.N. mandate,'' Mr. Zindani said, as the worshipers shouted, ''No to occupation!'' He said that Washington's ''so-called war on terror is in fact a war against Islam,'' according to Al Jazeera.
 After his sermon, he told a reporter for Al Jazeera: ''Obama's advisers recommended that if Yemen becomes a failed state, they have to occupy the oil resources and Yemen's seacoast. What is this military buildup on our coasts for? Is it really justified by piracy? No one really believes that.''
 Sheik Zindani is no fan of American involvement in the Muslim world and has defended jihad -- beginning with the thousands of Muslims, many of them from Yemen, who heeded the call, as he did, to fight the Soviet Union in Afghanistan. Their alliance with the Taliban then was considered a fine thing, and Mr. bin Laden himself fought the Soviets.
 But the reaction to Afghanistan, including the creation of Al Qaeda, has hit Yemen, too. Sheik Zindani, who has considerable political and moral weight, has come out against terrorism, if not jihad, and President Ali Abdullah Saleh of Yemen has failed to get Washington to remove the sheik from the terrorist list. Even a senior Western diplomat said that the sheik ''has kept his head down for the last few years,'' since he took legal action against Yemeni newspapers and journalists in 2006 for reprinting even censored parts of the Danish cartoons of Muhammad.
 Mr. Saleh, who has run Yemen for 31 years, told The New York Times in June 2008 that ruling here is like ''dancing with snakes.'' Sheik Zindani and his conservative brand of Islam -- Yemeni Salafism -- has strong support from Saudi Arabia and one of Mr. Saleh's oldest allies, Ali Mohsen. They are all pillars of the current government, even if Mr. Mohsen opposes the dynastic succession of Mr. Saleh's son, Ahmed, to the presidency.
 While Yemeni Salafism is not as militant as the Saudi variety -- Wahhabism -- Sheik Zindani studied in Saudi Arabia, and the mental landscape of the Salafis and Al Qaeda is very similar -- conservative, anti-Western, devoted to purifying Islam and returning to the practices they believe existed at the time of Prophet Muhammad.
 Mr. Mohsen, a general who is currently prosecuting the war against a Houthi rebellion in the north, also recruited thousands of Yemenis to fight the Soviets in Afghanistan. His brigades returned victorious, and Mr. Saleh has used them since to help defeat the south in the 1994 civil war and against the Houthis. Some fighters, of course, have migrated to Al Qaeda, and there are imams here more radical than Mr. Zindani.
 When north and south Yemen were united in 1990, Sheik Zindani accepted Mr. Saleh's rule and was granted this huge area of government land on the western edge of Sana for the university -- adjoining a large military base, which is Mr. Mohsen's headquarters. There are rumors that students sometimes get military training there, which Mr. Abu Ras also denies. 
 Tuition, housing and food are free for students, and there is a primary school for their children. But with the Treasury Department crackdown on financing suspected terrorist groups, Yemeni analysts say that the school now has less money, that the number of students is down at least 2,000 and that there is less food in the cafeteria. 
 Ismail al-Suhailyi, who has taught political science here for 13 years, said that the West must concentrate on economic development, not just security assistance. ''Otherwise, the people will see their government working only for the interests of the Americans,'' he said. 
 ''Al Qaeda is part of Yemen, but they are just a few hundred people,'' Mr. Suhailyi said, advocating further dialogue with Al Qaeda. ''I hope the American government will work to solve the problems here, and not become part of the problem.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The mosque of Al Eman University, which has more than 4,000 students, and courses in Islam and Western disciplines, sometimes trying to meld the two.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL KAMBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); RELIGION (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (78%); TALIBAN (73%); CHRISTMAS 2009 AIRLINE BOMBING ATTEMPT (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: YEMEN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); NIGERIA (79%); GULF STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (77%); AFGHANISTAN (76%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



527 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BIG CITY; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: What Lessons Those Carrots Are Teaching

BYLINE: By SUSAN DOMINUS. 
E-mail: susan.dominus@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Remember New York City's plan to reward students who excelled with cellphones? That plan fell by the wayside, not because so many people thought it was absurd -- after all, cellphones are not allowed in New York City Schools -- but because the project's guru, the Harvard economist Roland Fryer, decided to apply his energies elsewhere not long after the project began. 
 The plan seems to have had at least some ripple effect: Starting in February, the Visiting Nurse Service of New York will begin a pilot program to try to combat Type 1 diabetes in young people by offering more personalized health care -- and to the young people, ages 11 to 17, who enroll, they are offering specially programmed BlackBerrys. 
 The Blackberrys are, to some extent, a hard, cold incentive: participate in this diabetes care management program, and get a hot gadget. But the BlackBerrys will have been programmed specifically to help young people monitor their health, so that instead of writing in some notebook what they're eating and how they feel, the young people can do it on their phones, looking like they're blithely texting a friend instead of trying to avoid the emergency room. The phones function like personal coaches, automatically turning on if a child turns it off after receiving one of the preprogrammed prompts, say, to check blood sugar. 
 Why is it that this project seems inherently worthwhile, while the idea of giving cellphones to students in exchange for good grades evokes, in so many of us, a visceral objection? It may be that for young people with diabetes, the BlackBerrys are not just an expensive gold star, but an active tool used toward reaching the goal of better health. 
 ''They remove a hassle in the way of something worthwhile,'' says Daniel Pink, the author of a new book called ''Drive,'' which explores 40 years of research on motivation. Give people money to give blood, and fewer do, he said (presumably because low pay diminishes the reward of doing something selfless); but give them time off from work to do it -- remove an obstacle -- and more do. 
 It's not surprising that New York, which sees itself as the financial capital of the world, has been gung-ho on incentives for students, from the cellphone program to the $50 some fourth graders received for acing standardized tests, to the $1,000 that high schoolers could get for every 5 they got on an Advanced Placement exam. A two-year reward pilot program overseen by the Department of Education has ended, and it is now awaiting an evaluation. 
 I thought about those programs when I recently read a study that found that children who get sweets for eating their vegetables tend to value sugary treats more than kids whose parents do not use that system -- their sense of sweets as something to value is reinforced by the very fact that it's being given to them as a reward. It may be that giving children cash rewards -- or material ones, like hip cellphones -- is not merely reflecting the empty values that landed us in financial trouble, nationwide; disturbingly, that kind of system may actively be reinforcing them. 
 Giving young people money for testing well, it would seem, sends them on a path that could demand ever more money to keep up their motivation. As Mr. Pink puts it, when you pay children money to study, it equates school with ''working at a fast food restaurant -- something only a chump would do for free.'' Pay fourth graders to study, and you had better be prepared to pay them forever -- it's like setting up an educational exploding adjustable rate mortgage, a shackling scheme that promises the acquisition of something valuable in some sketchy, roundabout way. And what happens if the money runs out? 
 REACH, the program that rewards students for scoring well on Advanced Placement exams, now gives students only $500 for getting a five on the tests, instead of $1,000 -- such are their finances -- but the number of students enrolled in their prep classes has increased. That's surely good news. The preceding classes' enthusiasm has surely helped lend the program a patina of cool that makes up for the diminishing money. 
 But if money is the only thing we can think of to make education cool, we may end up with another generation overloaded with people, educated and not, whose ambition is limited to the goal of cash, and at all costs.
 Using technology to manage young people's health care, and possibly health care costs? That all sounds very 2010. Giving a kid a costly gadget or cash to get good grades? Somehow, suddenly, that all sounds very pre-crash.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DIABETES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (75%); HEALTH CARE (75%); TEXT MESSAGING (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (73%); NURSES & NURSING (70%); WRITERS (67%); VISITING NURSES (55%)

COMPANY: VISITING NURSE SERVICE OF NEW YORK (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



528 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1444 words

HEADLINE: Skepticism For Obama's Fiscal Policy

BYLINE: By MICHIKO KAKUTANI

 BODY:
FREEFALL 
 America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy 
 By Joseph E. Stiglitz 
 361 pages. W. W. Norton & Company. $27.95. 
 In a November 2008 Op-Ed article for The New York Times, the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz wrote that a huge stimulus package -- as much as $1 trillion over two years -- was needed to turn the Great Recession into a robust recovery and that new regulations were needed to change the destructive behavior of Wall Street that had brought about the fiscal calamities in the first place. 
 Some four months later, he wrote another Op-Ed piece for The Times in which he assailed the Obama administration's plans for dealing with ailing banks, arguing that it was ''a win-win-lose proposal: the banks win, investors win -- and taxpayers lose.'' He went on to characterize the administration's approach as ''ersatz capitalism, the privatizing of gains and the socializing of losses.'' 
 Mr. Stiglitz's new book, ''Freefall: America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy,'' expands these populist arguments further. He deconstructs the causes of the Great Recession of 2008, assesses the responses to the crisis by the Bush and Obama administrations and lays out suggestions for how America might use this ''near-death experience'' to address flaws in its economic system and reconfigure itself for the 21st century -- a century in which it faces daunting problems like a ballooning deficit and trade imbalance, mounting job losses in the manufacturing sector and challenges from China and other countries.
 A professor at Columbia University, Mr. Stiglitz uses his experience teaching to give the lay reader a lucid account of how overleveraged banks, a shoddy mortgage industry, predatory lending and unregulated trading contributed to the meltdown, and how, in his opinion, ill-conceived rescue efforts may have halted the freefall but have failed to grapple with more fundamental problems. 
 He is eloquent on how the American economy was sustained before the crisis by ''a debt-financed consumption binge supported by a housing bubble'' and impassioned in describing what he sees as the government's failure to make substantial reforms to the economic system: though ''excesses of leverage will be curbed,'' he writes, ''the too-big-to-fail banks will be allowed to continue much as before, over-the-counter derivatives that cost taxpayers so much will continue almost unabated, and finance executives will continue to receive outsized bonuses.'' In each case, he writes, ''something cosmetic will be done, but it will fall far short of what is needed.'' 
 Before the deadly autumn of 2008, Mr. Stiglitz was one of the handful of economists who had been ''expecting the U.S. economy to crash, with global consequences,'' and in this book his prescience lends credibility to his trenchant analysis of the causes of the fiscal meltdown, though it also leads, at times, to an I-told-you-so sanctimoniousness about both the recession and Washington's response. 
 ''I suspect that if the government adopted the simple proposals of this chapter, the foreclosure problem would be a thing of the past,'' he writes. ''But regrettably, the Obama administration has followed the course of the Bush administration, directing most of its efforts at rescuing the banks.'' 
 Mr. Stiglitz writes, of course, as a proud Keynesian, and his analysis of the recession of 2008 and its aftermath reflects his overall philosophy. For that matter, many of the arguments in this volume echo those he made in earlier books like ''Globalization and Its Discontents,'' and they underscore his beliefs about the limitations of ''market fundamentalism'' (''the notion that unfettered markets, all by themselves, can ensure economic prosperity and growth'') and the essential role that governments must play in regulating markets. 
 Indeed, Mr. Stiglitz concludes in these pages that the collapse of Lehman Brothers in September 2008 may be to market fundamentalism what ''the fall of the Berlin Wall was to communism'': ''The problems with the ideology were known before that date, but after it no one could really defend it. With the collapse of great banks and financial houses and the ensuing economic turmoil and chaotic attempts at rescue, the period of American triumphalism is over.'' 
 In another chapter Mr. Stiglitz argues that ''the failures in our financial system are emblematic of broader failures in our economic system, and the failures of our economic system reflect deeper problems in our society'' -- including growing inequities of wealth, a lack of accountability on the part of business and political leaders, and an emphasis on short-term gains as opposed to long-term benefits. 
 Considerable criticism in this book is directed at the Obama administration's handling of the recession. Mr. Stiglitz contends that the president and his advisers chose ''to muddle through,'' to rearrange only slightly ''the deck chairs on the Titanic'' instead of boldly trying to ''solve the structural problems of the banking system.'' 
 He writes that both the Bush and Obama administrations ''underestimated the severity of the recession'' and that the Obama stimulus ''made a big difference'' but ''was too small'' -- that ''too much of it (about a third) went to tax cuts, too little went to help states and localities and those that were falling through the holes in the safety nets.'' 
 Echoing Colin L. Powell's doctrine of overwhelming military force, Mr. Stiglitz writes that ''when an economy is weak, very weak as the world economy appeared in early 2009, attack with overwhelming force.'' Tackling the problem with what he sees as ''insufficient ammunition,'' he adds, ''was a dangerous strategy, especially as it became increasingly clear that the Obama administration had underestimated the strength of the downturn, including the increase in unemployment.'' 
 The result of the administration's application of underwhelming force, he glumly predicts, will be a slower recovery, and ''we will emerge from the crisis with a much larger legacy of debt, with a financial system that is less competitive, less efficient and more vulnerable to another crisis.'' 
 Like the Times columnist Paul Krugman, Mr. Stiglitz reminds the reader that America was spared major financial crises in the decades following World War II, when ''there were strong regulations that were effectively enforced.'' 
 As memories of the Great Depression receded, however, deregulation became increasingly fashionable -- not only under the Republican administrations of Ronald Reagan and the two Bushes, but also during the tenure of Bill Clinton. Mr. Stiglitz, a member of Mr. Clinton's Council of Economic Advisers and later chief economist for the World Bank, frequently criticized the Treasury secretary at the time, Robert E. Rubin, and his successor Lawrence H. Summers, for their deregulatory policies; in these pages, he questions President Obama's decision to make Mr. Summers his chief White House economic adviser and to name Timothy F. Geithner (who worked under Mr. Summers and Mr. Rubin in the Clinton administration) treasury secretary. 
 ''Obama chose this team,'' says Mr. Stiglitz, who writes with what sounds like a touch of sour grapes, ''in spite of the fact that hemust have known -- he certainly was advised to that effect -- that it would be important to have new faces at the table who had no vested interests in the past, either in the deregulatory movement that got us into the problem or in the faltering rescues that had marked 2008, from Bear Stearns through Lehman Brothers to A.I.G.'' 
 Some of the suggestions that Mr. Stiglitz makes in these pages for reconfiguring the American economy (and American society) stray far from the realm of practical policy recommendations that actually have a chance of winning broad public support or being enacted by Congress. He writes about how a ''redistribution of income'' and more progressive taxation might help stabilize the economy and calls for a new global reserve system. He contrasts Bhutan's concept of G.N.H. (''gross national happiness'') with America's focus on G.D.P. and talks about the ''moral deficit'' that Americans' ''unrelenting pursuit of profits'' and self-interest have created. 
 Such remarks not only give ammunition to conservative critics who want to dismiss Mr. Stiglitz as a European-style liberal, but they also have the unfortunate effect of diverting the reader's attention from the many shrewd assessments that he makes in ''Freefall'' about the causes and consequences of the great financial meltdown of 2008.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Joseph E. Stiglitz (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN DEITCH) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (76%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (74%); BANK FAILURES (74%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (69%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (68%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); PREDATORY LENDING (62%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (50%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%)

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%)

TITLE: Freefall: America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy (Book)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



529 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Europe Markets Rise Amid Rumors on Deals

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
European stock markets rose Monday as speculation of a pickup in corporate deal making kept investors interested on a day Wall Street was closed for the Martin Luther King public holiday and Greece's budgetary woes continued to weigh on the euro.
 The FTSE 100 in London closed up 39.02 points, or 0.7 percent, at 5,494.39, while DAX in Frankfurt rose 42.58 points, or 0.7 percent, at 5,918.55. The CAC-40 in Paris ended 23.08 points, or 0.6 percent, higher at 3,977.46. 
 Earlier in Asia, Japan's Nikkei 225 stock average ended 127.02 points, or 1.2 percent, lower at 10,855.08 while Hong Kong's Hang Seng fell 194.15 points, or 0.9 percent, to 21,460.01. Markets in Singapore and Taiwan also lost ground.
 A lot of the interest in Europe centered on International Power of Britain and Gaz de France and whether weekend speculation that they were looking at some sort of tie-up would materialize.
 However, International Power's statement that merger talks had ended saw a massive reverse in the company's fortunes and a share price that had been 8 percent higher in the day ended over 3 percent lower -- making it the biggest faller on the FTSE 100.
 The British candy maker Cadbury also remained in the spotlight amid speculation that its suitor Kraft Foods was preparing to sweeten its offer before a Tuesday deadline. Cadbury ended around 1.5 percent higher but investors remain skeptical that the current stand-off between the two companies can be ended.
 ''Some traders seem to feel that this has dragged on long enough, making any sort of deal unlikely,'' said David Jones, chief market strategist at IG Index.
 Even though talks between International Power and Gaz de France failed to yield anything, analysts said there are expectations that the amount of mergers and acquisitions taking place will increase over the coming months as the global economy recovers from recession. One corollary of increased confidence is an increase in mergers and acquisitions.
 When Wall Street returns on Tuesday, the focus will turn towards the next batch of fourth quarter corporate earnings -- so far, earnings have been fairly mixed, with upside surprises from the likes of the chipmaker Intel offset by disappointments elsewhere, most notably the aluminum Alcoa Inc.
 Banks will be in the spotlight especially after U.S. stocks fell 1 percent on Friday -- the Dow Jones industrial average suffered its worst day of the year so far -- as JP Morgan Chase & Company offered a cautious earnings guidance even though it reported a fairly strong set of results.
 ''We get Citigroup tomorrow which has less of the good bits of banking and more of the bad bits,'' said Kit Juckes, chief economist at the ECU Group.
 A meeting of the 16 finance ministers of the countries that use the euro in Brussels later will be closely monitored in the currency markets as the main topic of debate will be the shaky state of Greece's public finances.
 Concern about Greece's debts has been one of the reasons why the euro has floundered over the last month or so from 16-month highs above $1.50. Earlier it hit a ten-day low of $1.4336 before recovering slightly to $1.4380.
 Greece's problems have fueled concerns that the country may eventually have to be bailed out by its partners in the eurozone. Some observers are even speculating about a possible Greek exit from the single currency zone.
 ''With rising concerns about the workability of the Greek government's stability and growth plan, the firm rejection from within the eurozone of the idea of a bailout, the rapidly rising cost of default insurance on Greek sovereign debt and concerns over deficits elsewhere in the region, the problems for the single currency are mounting rapidly,'' said Neil Mellor, a currency strategist at Bank of New York Mellon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (67%)

COMPANY: GDF SUEZ SA (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (80%); ALCOA INC (62%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (54%); INTEL CORP (51%)

TICKER: GSZ (PAR) (84%); GSZ (BIT) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (80%); JPM (LSE) (80%); 8634 (TSE) (80%); AAI (ASX) (62%); AA (NYSE) (62%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS211112 NATURAL GAS LIQUID EXTRACTION (84%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (84%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (84%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (84%); SIC1321 NATURAL GAS LIQUIDS (84%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (80%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (80%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (80%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (80%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (57%) FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (90%) FRANCE (93%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); JAPAN (79%); TAIWAN (79%); SINGAPORE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ASIA (79%); GREECE (74%); HONG KONG (72%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



530 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Strike at Cleveland Orchestra Points to Classical Music Woes

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

DATELINE: CLEVELAND 

 BODY:
One of the first high-profile labor tussles of 2010 is brewing at the Cleveland Orchestra, and it points to troubled times for the nation's elite classical musical ensembles amid the Great Recession. 
 Orchestra members struck on Monday, the first such work stoppage here in 30 years. It was a day off for them anyway, so there was little immediate effect, but the strike forced the cancellation of a two-day teaching and concert trip to Indiana University and threatened a lucrative residency in Miami, both scheduled for this week. The two sides spent much of the day together in talks with a mediator. 
 In troubles elsewhere, the New York Philharmonic has just reported a record deficit for last year of $4.6 million, with nearly that much of a shortfall expected this season. The Seattle Symphony musicians have authorized a strike if need be. 
 Many of the nation's top orchestras have reduced staff positions and administrative salaries in the last year. Orchestras have downsized seasons, canceled tours, programmed smaller works and left jobs open. 
 Current economic hardships, of course, are partly to blame. But industry experts point out that in the flush years of the 1990s, orchestras went on spending sprees without building up their endowments for a rainy decade. Now the crunch is on. At the same time, the old system of making the majority of ticket money from season-long subscriptions is breaking down. Big recording contracts are long gone.
 In Cleveland, the fight revolves around several thousand dollars a year in salary for each player. But implicit is a debate over the worth of exquisitely trained musical artists in our society and how much we are now willing to pay for them. 
 The problem is especially acute here. Cleveland presents one of classical music's great anomalies: a top international orchestra in a shrinking city, an ensemble in a Rust Belt town that plays with the greatest of ease among the Viennese.
 The Cleveland Orchestra, founded in 1918, was born out of the city's industrial might. While a couple of fiery plumes in the night sky are reminders of that legacy, much of the industry has died or moved away. The population has declined by nearly half in the last 50 years, and 10 percent over the last decade. Corporate headquarters have shut their doors. No new industries are minting millionaires. Old-money families are dispersing. Ticket sales have declined, although loyalty remains fierce. 
 ''The orchestra is living off of historic wealth,'' said Edward W. Hill, a professor of economic development at Cleveland State University. 
 According to numbers provided by management, the orchestra has been operating at large deficits for nearly a decade, averaging around $4 million for the last seven seasons with a budget now at $42.3 million. It has plugged the holes by using most of the money it had set aside to pay off $28 million in bonds when they come due in 2028 and by raising $18 million in emergency funds -- which run out this season.
 Orchestra officials say finances were hurt by dipping excessively every year into the endowment, which has plunged to $97 million from about $146 million in 2006-7. 
 Yet the orchestra remains undiminished artistically. Last Thursday's concert gave ample evidence. The music director, Franz Welser-Most, conducted impeccable accounts of works by Strauss, Ades and Brahms. The orchestra's famed sound, transparent yet golden, glowed as usual. Entrances and cutoffs were typically precise. Melodies were caressed as much as played. The concert was well attended but not full. 
 But before the first notes of Strauss's ''Don Juan,'' the players engaged in the equivalent of hurling Molotov cocktails in the genteel confines of Severance Hall, the orchestra's splendidly renovated home: they left the stage and passed out leaflets among the patrons.
 Clevelanders, whether they go to Severance Hall or not, know that the orchestra is one of the things about their city that register best around the world. (The Cleveland Clinic, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Lebron James are up there, too.)
 In town, players say they are often treated as celebrities. Lines of yellow school buses on East Boulevard near Severance Hall attest to a widely experienced rite of passage for Cleveland youngsters: a trip to hear the Cleveland Orchestra. 
 ''The orchestra has become almost like a church in Cleveland,'' said Ross W. Duffin, a music professor at Case Western Reserve University here.
 But it has become increasingly clear that this church must find a flock outside Cleveland. It has embarked on a kind of ''globalization strategy,'' establishing residences in Miami; Vienna; Lucerne, Switzerland; and in the future, New York, as part of the Lincoln Center Festival. It is going, basically, where the money is.
 The orchestra says it has raised $9 million from Miami donors in the last four seasons. They dominate the category of gifts over $100,000 in the last annual report.
 The strike was strategically timed. The orchestra was scheduled to leave Thursday for its 10-day Miami residency. 
 The players and management are deadlocked over salaries. The musicians have proposed freezing their pay through the season, then re-examining the situation in the summer. The orchestra's leadership has asked the players to take a 5 percent pay cut this year, go back to par next year and accept a 2.5 percent raise the following year. It is also seeking cuts in benefits.
 Management argues that administrators and staff members have taken pay cuts, and that the players should share in the sacrifice. Mr. Welser-Most, whose last reported income was $1.3 million, took a 20 percent pay cut. Gary Hanson, the executive director, whose last reported salary was $404,000, took a 15 percent cut and said he now earns what he started at in 2004.
 The players say they have made numerous concessions in recent years. But more critically, they argue, any further slippage in pay will threaten the orchestra's greatness by putting it far behind the pay scales of its peers, which consist mainly of the New York Philharmonic, the Boston Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra and the Chicago Symphony -- America's so-called Big Five. (The San Francisco Symphony and Los Angeles Philharmonic resent the phrase.)
 The Cleveland players' minimum salary now stands at $115,000, seventh in the nation, but most earn more through additional payments; principal players can earn two or three times that amount.
 As the musicians see it, losing further ground will make it tougher to attract the absolute best players, and to keep them, threatening the orchestra's greatness. ''Continuity and stability have been the backbone of this orchestra,'' said Michael Sachs, the principal trumpeter.
 Mr. Hanson, the executive director, dismissed these arguments. ''The proposal that we're making is fair and reasonable and will not cause any artistic impact such as they're predicting,'' he said. Though the orchestra has been toward the bottom of the elite orchestra pay scale for a decade, he added, virtually no member has defected. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hans Clebsch of the Cleveland Orchestra,left, warmed up before last Thursday's concert at Severance Hall, right.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEN BLAZE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); TICKET SALES (65%); POPULATION DECLINE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (94%); INDIANA UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (94%); INDIANA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



531 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: Another Shifting Industry

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
The majestic steel beams of a soaring office tower beginning to rise from the ruins of the World Trade Center are a tribute to American resilience, but also a marker in the decline of yet another industry. Not an inch of imported glass went into the two lost towers, built 40 years ago. The lower floors of the new one will soon be sheathed in Chinese glass.
 The decline of glassmaking in America started gradually in the 1990s and accelerated during the Great Recession. What's more, the big companies, like Corning and Guardian Industries, say that even as the economy improves, they are unlikely to bring domestic employment and production back to prerecession levels. Imports, for one thing, inhibit sales. And bigger profits lie abroad, so they are channeling investment and expansion to their overseas factories.
 ''Those who are looking through the rearview mirror, waiting for the glass industry in this country to come back, should know it isn't going to come back, not the way it was,'' Russell J. Ebeid, Guardian's chairman, said in an interview. 
 With the nation's unemployment rate hovering at 10 percent, the possibility of stemming job losses holds considerable appeal. So, in an argument likely to be repeated if unemployment persists at record high levels, some are pressing the Obama administration to offer protection for the nation's glassworkers by raising existing tariffs on imported glass, particularly from China, as is happening on steel and tires. That action or something similar is supported by the United Steelworkers and also by many of the small manufacturers that operate more than 300 factories in this country. 
 They say that Chinese glassmakers are competitive in the American marketplace only because they have received giant subsidies in recent years from the Chinese government. The subsidies offset, among other things, the high cost of shipping heavy glass -- auto windshields, for example -- across the Pacific.
 ''We definitely need to put tariffs on some of the glass coming from China,'' said Tim Tuttle, chairman of the glass industry department of the United Steelworkers. Overall industry employment has declined 30 percent over the last nine years, to fewer than 95,000 workers, 15,000 of them unionized.
 The Obama administration shies away from identifying specific industries, like tires, steel and now glass, for special protection from imports. ''The president wants to help create the economic conditions such that broad new industries can evolve consistent with his priorities, particularly in the area of clean energy,'' said Jared Bernstein, chief economist to the vice president.
 That caution reflects the free trade thinking of many mainstream economists and trade experts. They contend that in a global economy that has minimized tariff barriers and subsidies, each country will concentrate -- if not immediately, then over the long run -- on the goods and services it is best at producing, and trade them for what other countries are best at producing, thus maximizing output across the globe.
 The United Steelworkers endorses free trade, but insists that in the cases of tires, steel pipe and now glass, Chinese government subsidies have undercut the market forces on which free trade depends. 
 Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, still a big glassmaking state, takes the argument a step further. Given the deep symbolism of the new World Trade Center tower, he considers awarding the glass contracts to the lowest bidders, as the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey did last year, a blow to national pride. 
 ''Imagine China,'' he said in an interview, ''building a huge structure intended to be an important national symbol and importing glass from the United States to build it. There is no way the Chinese would do that.'' 
 Beijing Glass won in the bidding to supply the opaque, blast-resistant glass for the first 20 floors of the new tower, which is now just seven stories of steel beams, a stub along the Lower Manhattan skyline, and still dwarfed by the huge cranes putting the framework in place. 
 While the Steelworkers and many smaller companies seek protection, the big glassmakers generally do not. Some, with factories in China, have benefited from the subsidies, and also from the economies of scale that operating in China make possible: access to a rapidly growing market there and competitively priced exports to the United States. 
 In the Trade Center bidding, Guardian won as the supplier of the intricately layered glass for the upper 85 floors. It will soon make that glass at a factory in Carleton, Mich. But even as company executives described this victory in interviews this month, they sent out a news release noting a greater one.
 Guardian manufactured all the glass -- more than two million square feet of it -- for the newly opened 160-story Burj Khalifa in Dubai, the world's tallest building. That glass came not from America, but from Guardian's factories in Germany and Luxembourg. The company now has 36 plants abroad, employing 9,000 people, up from 6,500 workers in 2005 and, for the first time, surpassing the number of Guardian employees in this country.
 ''Nearly three-quarters of our sales are outside the United States,'' Mr. Ebeid said. ''That has been steadily increasing since 1981, when we were totally a domestic supplier.''
 Like many glass factories in the United States -- those that have survived the recession -- the Guardian plant in Carleton is operating at less than 85 percent of capacity, producing long strips of coated ''float'' glass from which windows, glassware, fiber optics, auto windshields, solar panels and other glass products are fashioned. Employment has fallen to 410 people, from 520 as the recession was getting under way in January 2008. 
 The work force will not return to the old level, says Gerry Hool, the plant manager. That is partly because of new efficiencies, but also because imported glass now accounts for nearly 24 percent of domestic consumption, up from 21 percent just four years ago. What's more, the industry's biggest customers -- automakers and home builders -- are not likely to raise production to the levels reached during the housing bubble and before the credit crisis.
 ''Maybe in better times we'll get back to 450 workers,'' Mr. Hool said.
 Some pockets of strength remain. Beer and wine bottles are made in this country, at automated plants. And from two factories in the Ohio Valley, operating 24/7, the Anchor Hocking Company churns out baking dishes, drinking glasses, glass canisters, glass candleholders and glass meter covers, counting on customer service, like just-in-time delivery to Wal-Mart, to stave off imports. Anchor Hocking has no factories abroad. 
 But elsewhere in the Ohio Valley, dozens of companies that once made glass for the furniture industry, concentrated just to the south in the Carolinas, are gone. As furniture-making moved offshore, so did the glass that went with it: glass tabletops, for example, and glass for framed mirrors.
 Colored glass is another victim. A hundred companies in the valley once made ''art'' glass -- figurines, flower vases, lamps, perfume bottles, bowls and woven glass baskets -- employing hundreds of skilled glass blowers and pressers. They are mostly gone. Many were family-owned enterprises, like Fenton Art Glass in Williamstown, W.Va., a rare survivor run by George W. Fenton, a grandson of the founder.
 ''We make a product that no one needs; we are purely discretionary,'' Mr. Fenton said, noting that the recession devastated discretionary spending.
 Employment at the Fenton plant is down to 125 people from a peak of 700 in 2000. Imports are also a problem, but Mr. Fenton, rather than fight them, has become an importer himself, reselling what he purchases abroad -- a sideline that now contributes 10 percent of revenue.
 ''I need some relief from government to stay in business,'' Mr. Fenton said, referring to the tariff proposal, ''but I'm not sure it is the government's role to keep me in business.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The lower floors of the new 1 World Trade Center will be sheathed in Chinese glass. No imported glass was used in the two towers destroyed on 9/11.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(B1)
Guardian Industries will make glass in Carleton, Mich., for the upper 85 floors of the tower.
 Gerry Hool, Carleton plant manager, says staffing will never return to the old level, mainly because more glass is imported.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GLASS MFG (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); RECESSION (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); INTERVIEWS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (69%)

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (54%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



532 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland Settles Orchestra Strike

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The musicians of the Cleveland Orchestra and their management settled a strike on Tuesday that lasted little longer than a quick scherzo but made clear the tensions raised by difficult economic times across the orchestra world.
 The orchestra struck on Monday, and negotiators met at noon that day at a mediator's office a few miles outside the city. They reached a tentative agreement shortly after dawn on Tuesday, and it was ratified later in the day.
 Elsewhere, the musicians and administrators of the Seattle Symphony remain at loggerheads, as leaders of other major orchestras around the country are struggling with decreasing revenues amid the recession. Orchestras depend overwhelmingly on donated money to finance their operations. Those sums can fluctuate, while healthy but hard-won salaries for the players remain fixed, along with the cost of large administrative bureaucracies. 
 The pact in Cleveland calls for a pay freeze for this season and the next, a 3 percent increase for the first half of the third season and a 2 percent increase for the second half of that season.
 Management was seeking a 5 percent pay cut for this season and offering a return to par for the next and a 2.5 percent increase for the third. The musicians were seeking a freeze for just this season, with a new contract to be negotiated over the summer. 
 While the musicians avoided a first-season pay cut, they agreed to play 10 extra rehearsals or concerts without compensation over the course of the contract. The agreement also gives the orchestra some budget predictability as it struggles to contain $4 million in yearly deficits. And the musicians agreed to a proposal by the orchestra that they contribute more to health insurance premiums, starting in July 2011.
 ''This is the right settlement for the institution,'' Gary Hanson, the orchestra's executive director, said in an interview. ''I don't think anybody here is adjudicating win or loss.'' 
 Mr. Hanson said it was difficult to quantify how much revenue the musicians' donated time would yield. ''It's a very meaningful provision of the contract,'' he said.
 The musicians argued that their pay scale had fallen behind the nation's other elite orchestras, and maintained that any further erosion would topple the Cleveland Orchestra from its pedestal as a major international ensemble.
 ''We are very happy that management has heard our message and agreed not to further erode our base compensation, allowing us to stay as competitive as possible with the marketplace,'' Jeffrey Rathbun, the chairman of the players' committee and an oboist, said in a statement. ''We look forward to working together to build our base of support and continue our tradition of excellence.'' 
 While the strike took place on a day off for the orchestra, it did cause the cancellation of a two-day visit to Bloomington, Ind., where it was to play a concert and give coaching sessions at Indiana University. The music director, Franz Welser-Most, said he still planned to conduct the student orchestra, and the orchestra's general manager, Gary Ginstling, planned to lead a seminar. The orchestra management said it would try to reschedule the concert.
 The settlement avoids cancellation of a 10-day residency in Miami, where the orchestra is to play five concerts at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts. The extended visit to Miami is part of the Cleveland Orchestra's strategy of establishing beachheads outside its hometown to raise more money. Cleveland's shrinking industrial and business base and population have hurt its ability to bring in funds.
 The orchestra has raised about $9 million in Miami over the last four years, and has similar ambitions for Europe and New York.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



533 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Blacks In Retreat

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT

 BODY:
It has been easy for people to forget in the decades since we lost the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. that he was a passionate fighter for economic justice as well as civil rights. The two goals were as closely linked as the hydrogen and oxygen atoms in water.
 The historic gathering in 1963 at which Dr. King delivered his famous ''I Have a Dream'' speech was officially called the March on Washington for Jobs and Freedom. 
 And when Dr. King was murdered in Memphis in 1968, he had gone there to support sanitation workers who were striking for higher wages and better working conditions.
 Jobs and freedom. In America, you can't have one without the other. Democrats are in deep trouble right now -- just a year after their giddy celebration of Barack Obama's ascendance to the presidency -- because so many millions of Americans are out of work, unable to find the gainful employment that would unlock the door to a stable future for themselves and their families.
 The president and his party may be obsessed with health care, but unemployed and underemployed Americans want a job. Why this has been so hard for the Democrats to realize, I can't say.
 As the nation continues to wallow in the trough of widespread unemployment, black Americans are bearing a disproportionate burden of the joblessness. The election of a black president may have been important to African-Americans for myriad reasons, but it hasn't done much for their bottom line, which continues to deteriorate.
 For example, without a dramatic new intervention by the federal government, the poverty rate for African-American children could eventually approach a heart-stopping 50 percent, according to analysts at the Economic Policy Institute. Already more than a third of black children are living in poverty.
 Present trends are not good. Communities of color are being crushed economically and the national news media have not fully focused on the carnage. The official unemployment rate for blacks is 16.2 percent and could well pass 17 percent before the year is out. The real jobless rate is far more ghastly. The Boston-based group United for a Fair Economy noted that even ''college-educated black men are nearly twice as likely to be unemployed as their white, college-educated counterparts.''
 In some poor neighborhoods, a man or woman with a traditional full-time job is the exception, not the rule. In five Midwestern states -- Nebraska, Minnesota, Iowa, Wisconsin and Oklahoma -- the jobless rate for blacks is at least three times as high as that for whites.
 Some decades ago, you would have heard a sustained outcry against such dire conditions among blacks, and there would have been loud demands for policy changes designed to bring more black Americans into the economic mainstream. You don't hear much of that now. Too many so-called black leaders are much more interested in invitations to the White House and positive profiles in mainstream publications than in raising any kind of ruckus that might benefit people in real trouble. 
 What the politicians and today's civil rights types won't tell you is that we're looking ahead to many long decades of grief and strife in America's black communities because of our failure to respond effectively to the horrendous impact of the Great Recession and the policies that led up to it. Black Americans are going backward economically, and right now no one is stepping up to stop the retreat.
 United for a Fair Economy, in its latest ''State of the Dream'' report, which is released annually around the time of Dr. King's birthday, is urging Congress and the president to identify communities with the highest unemployment rates and develop specific job-creation initiatives for them. 
 That kind of targeted effort is desperately needed, but don't hold your breath. There is precious little sentiment for programs that would provide real help to communities trapped in the nightmarish depths of this downturn, whether the residents are mostly black, mostly white, mostly Hispanic, or whatever. 
 Speaking about one of his many antipoverty initiatives, Dr. King told Look magazine in 1968: ''We called our demonstration a campaign for jobs and income because we felt that the economic question was the most crucial that black people, and poor people generally, were confronting.''
 That was then. The loudest voices against poverty and economic injustice of all kinds have long since faded. The government, reclining comfortably on a vast cushion of campaign contributions, has allied itself with big business and the big banks against the interests of ordinary Americans. Millions upon millions of families are suffering, but mostly in silence. 
 We honor Dr. King with a national holiday, but his long campaign for economic justice has been all but forgotten. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); MEN (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); FAMILY (77%); TRENDS (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); CHILD POVERTY (68%); POVERTY RATES (68%)

PERSON: MARTIN LUTHER KING JR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



534 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
 AT A YEMENI UNIVERSITY,
 A Sign of Nation's Challenges
 The sprawling Al Eman University in Sana, Yemen, was founded by Sheik Abdul Majid al-Zindani, a theological adviser to Osama bin Laden and a founder of the main Yemeni opposition party. It is a good symbol of the complications of Yemen, its need to strike a balance between conservative Islam and increased American involvement. PAGE A4
 PREDICTING TALIBAN DEFECTORS 
 Defense secretary Robert M. Gates said that there could be a surge of Taliban followers willing to reintegrate with the Afghan government of President Hamid Karzai, but that an Afghan government reconciliation with the Taliban leadership was unlikely. PAGE A5
 Attack on Iraqi Charity A6
 Five Americans Allege Torture A5
 National
 MORE MEN MARRYING
 Better-Educated Wives
 An analysis to be released by the Pew Research Center finds that men are increasingly marrying women with more education and higher incomes than they have -- a role reversal that is profoundly affecting the pool of potential marriage partners. PAGE A18
 DISCOURAGING STUDY ON DRUG
 The federal government discourages research into the medicinal uses of smoked marijuana, which may be one reason that there is no good scientific evidence that legalizing marijuana's use would provide any benefits over current therapies. PAGE A14
 New York
 IN TROUBLED LANDMARK, 
 Some See Bronx's Future
 A year after the sale of the brick tower at 1520 Sedgwick Avenue in the Bronx -- often referred to as the birthplace of hip-hop music -- housing code violations have piled up and tenants are seething at the new landlords. Many say that the famous building's problems could be a harbinger of a housing crisis in the city's low-income neighborhoods, especially in the Bronx. PAGE A22
 Business
 SWISS BANKER BLOWS WHISTLE
 On Tax Evasion
 Rudolf M. Elmer, who once ran the Caribbean operations of the Swiss bank Julius Baer, continues to disclose the inner workings of the company -- one of many Swiss institutions that investigators say help clients evade billions of dollars in taxes by routing money through offshore havens. PAGE B1
 DECLINE IN GLASSMAKING
 The decline of glassmaking in America started in the 1990s and accelerated during the Great Recession. Some are pressing the Obama administration to offer protection for the nation's glassworkers by raising existing tariffs on imported glass, particularly from China, as is happening with steel and tires. PAGE B1
 RETHINKING BIG BANKS
 A loud chorus of people are arguing that the sheer size of some banks helped bring about the financial crisis. Such concerns have led many people to question the repeal of a Depression-era law that was enacted to prevent investment and commercial banks from combining. Andrew Ross Sorkin, DealBook. PAGE B1
 Arts 
 AN ECONOMIST'S SKEPTICISM 
 For Obama's Fiscal Policy
 Michiko Kakutani writes that ''Freefall: America, Free Markets, and the Sinking of the World Economy,'' the new book from the Nobel Prize-winning economist Joseph E. Stiglitz, gives the lay reader a lucid account of the causes of the economic crisis, and how, in his opinion, rescue efforts may have halted the free fall but have failed to grapple with more fundamental problems. PAGE C1
 CBS Ventures Into Films C1
 Sports
 ISRAELI ATHLETES HEAD TO U.S.
 In Search of Ice and Medals
 It almost never snows in Israel, and there is only one regulation ice rink in the country. Eventually, an Israeli winter athlete with international aspirations must move -- to the mountains somewhere or, if he or she is a skater, to someplace like Bergen County, N.J. PAGE B8
 Science Times
 AIMING TO MANAGE DISASTERS 
 Through Small Steps
 Promoters of a number of innovative approaches to disaster relief and building or rebuilding infrastructure in developing countries share a belief that although the conventional top-down approach taken by governments and large agencies with huge projects, works in the beginning, long-term reconstruction requires local people to become more involved. PAGE D1
 Obituaries
 GLEN W. BELL JR., 86
 His idea in 1951 to sell crispy-shell tacos from the window of his hamburger stand became the foundation of Taco Bell, the restaurant chain that turned Mexican fare into fast food for millions of Americans. PAGE A29
 Op-ed
 DAVID BROOKS PAGE A31
 BOB HERBERT PAGE A31

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AL-QAEDA (90%); TALIBAN (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (87%); BANKING & FINANCE (85%); IMPORT TRADE (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RELIGION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSERVATISM (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); RECESSION (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); TAX FRAUD (73%); DECRIMINALIZATION (72%); RENTAL PROPERTY (69%); MARRIAGE (69%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (68%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (68%); TAX LAW (67%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (67%); DRUG LIBERALIZATION (67%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (67%); CANNABIS (66%); GLASS MFG (65%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (65%); BUILDING & HOUSING CODES (64%); HIP HOP CULTURE (64%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (62%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); RAP MUSIC (50%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (50%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); ROBERT M GATES (55%); HAMAD KARZAI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (88%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



535 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: The Pragmatic Leviathan

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
When I was in college, I was assigned ''Leviathan,'' by Thomas Hobbes. On the cover was an image from the first edition of the book, published in 1651. It shows the British nation as a large man. The people make up the muscles and flesh. Then at the top, there is the king, who is the head and the mind.
 When the Pilgrims left Britain to come to America, they left behind that metaphor as well. For these settlers, and the immigrants who have come since, the American nation is not a body with the government as the brain. Instead, America has been defined by its vast landscape and the sprawling energy of its entrepreneurs, scientists and community-builders. 
 In times of crisis, Americans rally around their government, but most of the time they have treated it as a supporting actor in national life. Americans are an unusual people, with less deference to central authority and an unparalleled faith in themselves. They seem to want a government that is helpful but not imperious, strong but subordinate.
 Over the years, American voters have reacted against any party that threatens that basic sense of proportion. They have reacted against a liberalism that sought an enlarged and corrosive government and a conservatism that threatened to dismantle the government's supportive role.
 A year ago, the country rallied behind a new president who promised to end the pendulumlike swings, who seemed likely to restore equilibrium with his moderate temper and pragmatic mind.
 In many ways, Barack Obama has lived up to his promise. He has created a thoughtful, pragmatic administration marked by a culture of honest and vigorous debate. When Obama makes a decision, you can be sure that he has heard and accounted for every opposing argument. If he senses an important viewpoint is not represented at a meeting, he will stop the proceedings and demand that it gets included.
 If the evidence leads him in directions he finds uncomfortable, he will still follow the evidence. He is beholden to no ideological camp, and there is no group in his political base that he has not angered at some point in his first year.
 But his has become a voracious pragmatism. Driven by circumstances and self-confidence, the president has made himself the star performer in the national drama. He has been ubiquitous, appearing everywhere, trying to overhaul most sectors of national life: finance, health, energy, automobiles and transportation, housing, and education, among others.
 He is no ideologue, but over the past year he has come to seem like the sovereign on the cover of ''Leviathan'' -- the brain of the nation to which all the cells in the body and the nervous system must report and defer.
 Americans, with their deep, vestigial sense of proportion, have reacted. The crucial movement came between April and June, when the president's approval rating among independents fell by 15 percentage points and the percentage of independents who regarded him as liberal or very liberal rose by 18 points. Since then, the public has rejected any effort to centralize authority or increase the role of government.
 Trust in government has fallen. The share of Americans who say the country is on the wrong track has risen. The share who call themselves conservative has risen. The share who believe government is ''doing too many things better left to business'' has risen.
 The country is now split on Obama, because he is temperate, thoughtful and pragmatic, but his policies are almost all unpopular. If you aggregate the last seven polls on health care reform, 41 percent support it and 51 percent oppose.
 Many Democrats, as always, are caught in their insular liberal information loop. They think the polls are bad simply because the economy is bad. They tell each other health care is unpopular because the people aren't sophisticated enough to understand it. Some believe they can still pass health care even if their candidate, Martha Coakley, loses the Senate race in Massachusetts on Tuesday.
 That, of course, would be political suicide. It would be the act of a party so arrogant, elitist and contemptuous of popular wisdom that it would not deserve to govern. Marie Antoinette would applaud, but voters would rage.
 The American people are not always right, but their basic sense of equilibrium is worthy of the profoundest respect. President Obama has shown himself to be a fine administrator, but he erred in trying to make himself the irreplaceable man in nearly ever sphere of public life. He erred in not sensing that even a pragmatic government could seem imperious and alarming.
 If I were President Obama, I would spend the next year showing how government can serve a humble, helpful and supportive role to the central institutions of American life. Even in blue states like Massachusetts, voters want a government that is energetic but limited -- a servant, not a leviathan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



536 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 19, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK COLUMN; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Big, in Banks, Is in the Eye Of the Beholder

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN. 
The latest news on mergers and acquisitions can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook.

 BODY:
Can a bank be too big?
 That was one of the more interesting questions to come up during the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission hearing last week, though it was largely lost in all the coverage of bank chiefs being interrogated about bonuses and conflicts of interest.
 ''Some have suggested that size alone, or the combination of investment banking and commercial banking, contributed to the crisis,'' Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan Chase's chief executive, said to the commission members. ''We disagree.'' 
 Mr. Dimon, of course, represents the interests of JPMorgan, which just happens to be one of the largest and most successful banks in the nation. And JPMorgan has been one of the biggest beneficiaries of the financial crisis, having picked up Bear Stearns and Washington Mutual along the way.
 But there is a loud chorus of people taking issue with his stance and arguing that the sheer size of the banks -- and worries about the effect of any of them failing -- helped bring about the financial crisis. 
 Such concerns have led many people to question the repeal in 1999 of the Glass-Steagall Act, the Depression-era law that was enacted to prevent investment and commercial banks from combining. Alan Greenspan, former chairman of the Federal Reserve, has argued that a simple test should settle any debate. ''If they're too big to fail, they're too big,'' he said in October.
 ''In 1911 we broke up Standard Oil -- so what happened? The individual parts became more valuable than the whole,'' Mr. Greenspan added. ''Maybe that's what we need to do.''
 It was a surprising statement from Mr. Greenspan, given his free-market comment in 2005 that ''private regulation generally has proved far better at constraining excessive risk-taking than has government regulation.''
 In other countries, like Britain, political leaders have openly called for the forced breakup of such institutions on the theory that more modest measures would not guard against future calamities. 
 ''The belief that appropriate regulation can ensure that speculative activities do not result in failures is a delusion,'' Mervyn A. King, governor of the Bank of England, said last year.
 But shrinking the size of these companies may create other problems for the economy, particularly in this age of huge corporations. 
 If Pfizer, for example, needs to raise $20 billion for a takeover bid, or Verizon needs to raise billions to lay fiber optic cable for its FiOS service, they cannot efficiently go to 20 different community banks looking for the money. 
 And if corporations can't readily obtain financing in the United States, they may simply seek out huge overseas lenders like HSBC and Deutsche Bank.
 ''America's largest companies operate around the world and employ millions of people,'' Mr. Dimon said at the hearing. ''These firms need banking partners that operate globally, offer a full range of products and services, and provide financing in the billions of dollars.''
 Mr. Dimon also argued that there was no clear correlation between size and problems. 
 ''If you consider the institutions that have failed during the crisis, many have been small,'' he said. ''Some of the largest and most consequential failures were firms that were principally engaged in one business.''
 Think of the biggest dominoes: Bear Stearns, Lehman Brothers, Merrill Lynch and Morgan Stanley. They weren't financial supermarkets.
 Mr. Dimon was trying to make this point: Companies should be allowed to be as big as they want, so long as there is an orderly way to wind them down. 
 ''The solution is not to cap the size of financial firms,'' he said. ''We need a regulatory system that provides for even the biggest bank to be allowed to fail, but in a way that does not put taxpayers or the broader economy at risk.''
 That sounds good in theory. But in practice, the larger financial institutions become, the harder it is to keep them from impacting others -- or taxpayers.
 One piece of legislation making its way through Washington involves ''resolution authority,'' which would give the government the ability to put a too-big-to-fail financial company into a conservatorship in much the same way the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is able to unwind a commercial bank without putting it into bankruptcy. 
 In previous columns, I have argued in favor of resolution authority as a last-gasp measure to protect the financial system. 
 Mr. Dimon has also argued in favor of resolution authority as a way of allowing huge financial institutions to continue to operate with a safety net under them. 
 ''Under such a system, a failed bank's shareholders should lose their value; unsecured creditors should be at risk and, if necessary, wiped out,'' he said. ''A regulator should be able to terminate management and boards and liquidate assets.''
 There is one problem, however, that often gets overlooked with resolution authority: the cost. It is not free for the government to take over a company the way it did Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac. 
 One solution would be to create a fund similar to deposit insurance, in which systemically important financial institutions would be assessed fees to cover the costs associated with failures in their ranks.
 But consider this: the amount of money necessary to protect against the failure of a company like American International Group, for example, could be hundreds of billions of dollars. Financing that would require fees that could put a severe strain on companies and their profits.
 What we really need is a resolution authority to resolve this debate.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (67%); FOREIGN LENDING (60%); TAKEOVERS (60%); FIBER OPTICS (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); WASHINGTON MUTUAL INC (56%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); PFIZER INC (51%); BANK OF ENGLAND (51%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (51%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%); DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%); VZC (LSE) (51%); VZ (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6036 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, NOT FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (51%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (51%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (76%); JAMES DIMON (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010



537 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; EAST NEW YORK JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 871 words

HEADLINE: A Pocket of Work in an Area of Joblessness

BYLINE: By KAREEM FAHIM

 BODY:
The metal factory in East New York, Brooklyn, could be a picture on an old postcard, one that captures the faith in industry and soaring optimism of the 1950s, accidentally left behind in a neighborhood that now is New York City's capital of unemployment.
 The look of the factory, Belmont Metals Inc., has changed little over the decades. It is filled with anachronisms, beginning in the lobby, where a shiny slogan announces: ''Putting the Mettle in Metals since 1896.'' 
 The factory, on Belmont Avenue, is built around the two-story house where George Henning started his scrap metal business when the neighborhood had acres of farmland. His grandson, Richard G. Henning, is now the company's president, and some of its 80 employees have worked there nearly 40 years. 
 As many of the city's other small manufacturers struggle, disappear or accept sweet offers to relocate to other states, Mr. Henning seems content to keep things more or less the way they have been for generations, shipping specialty metal alloys to clients from New Jersey to Shanghai. 
 ''We're not growing,'' Mr. Henning said, sitting at an old desk as his workers punched their cards at quitting time. ''We're not moving.'' 
 The public perception of East New York as a despairing neighborhood was underscored last month, when the Fiscal Policy Institute, a nonpartisan research group, found that nearly 1 in 5 residents could not find jobs, the highest unemployment rate in the five boroughs. 
 But the place is full of work. Mr. Henning's company is one of more than 100 factories, restaurants and workshops that form a little-known business hub in East New York, a place where candles are made, plumbing supplies are shipped and buses are outfitted. Some opened before the neighborhood's decline in the 1970s; others were lured more recently with perks from the city and the state. The recession, of course, has stunted the growth of the hub.
 A block away from Belmont Metals, on Sutter Avenue, even the bodegas have trouble surviving. In the middle of the day, unemployed men trade stories on the corner outside a liquor store. A local nonprofit group, Groundwork Inc., has seen a flood of people suffering the symptoms of joblessness: legal problems, poverty and depression. 
 Last summer, financial problems closed a group that helped the neighborhood's large number of ex-convicts find jobs. Now no group is dedicated to easing the transition from prison to work, said Rosanna Cruz, a senior program manager at Groundwork Inc., which helps young people living in poverty.
 So the business district around Belmont Metals is a contradiction. No one is quite sure how many neighborhood residents are on the payrolls of these companies: William S. Wilkins, the director of economic development for the Local Development Corporation of East New York, threw out a guess of 25 percent. 
 But Belmont, for one, has not a single worker who lives in East New York, according to Mr. Henning, though he said that that had not always been the case and was mostly the result of very low turnover at his company. Last year, for the first time in 15 years, Belmont Metals laid off workers. 
 John Grbic, whose family has owned Adriatic Wood Products Inc. in the neighborhood for almost 30 years, said 4 of his 27 employees lived in East New York. He said he was proud of the neighborhood, but also put bluntly what other owners only whispered. 
 ''I've had a lot of bad experiences hiring people off the street,'' he said, pointing to an incident in which a man he hired -- ''down on his luck'' -- stole one of Adriatic's trucks. ''East New York is a tough place to find good people.'' 
 Whether or not that is the case today, the factories of East New York and its residents were once better connected. 
 Black and white pictures kept by Mr. Henning tell the stories. For years, the company operated out of the two-story house next to a large water tower and surrounded by dirt roads. As the company grew, workers from the small German community in the area helped what was then V. Henning & Sons carve a niche as a supplier of specialty metal products like jewelry alloys and bronze plating. 
 The staircase of the old house is still visible in a storage closet in the factory, which was built in the 1950s. 
 Over the decades, changes in the neighborhood played out on the factory floor, as Irish and Italian immigrants joined the Germans pouring liquid metal from the coal-fired melting pots. In the early 1970s, when Darlene Conlon started working at Belmont, she said the workers still visited the family-owned stores on Sutter Avenue. But by then, the Hennings had started to worry for the safety of their employees on the streets outside.
 In recent years, those streets have begun to feel safe again, Mr. Henning said, and he sees signs that the recession's grip on the local economy is beginning to ease. His 28-year-old son, Richard, works at the company now, representing the fifth generation of the Henning family.
 The younger Mr. Henning was optimistic about East New York, noting a new Jamaican restaurant, a supermarket and other stores away from the business hub. ''Things are improving,'' he said, ''even if it's not high employment.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Henry Bailey, 50, molds zinc alloy ingots at Belmont Metals in East New York, Brooklyn. The five-generation business has been in the same spot since 1896. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); RECESSION (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); POOR POPULATION (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); RESTAURANTS (63%); GRANDCHILDREN (54%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (50%)

COMPANY: BELMONT METALS INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



538 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: JAL Bankruptcy Filing Sets Off Reorganization and State-Led Bailout

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI; Micheline Maynard contributed reporting from Detroit.

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
Japan Airlines, the once-mighty flagship carrier and Asia's biggest airline, filed for bankruptcy protection on Tuesday, setting the stage for a state-led bailout that could bring sweeping changes to this corner of the global aviation market.
 JAL has been crippled by years of mismanagement and more than $25 billion in debt, ant its application for protection signals the country's largest corporate failure outside the financial sector. Though JAL planes will keep flying, because of a bailout of 600 billion yen, or $6.6 billion, the company's humbling is a reminder of how some of postwar Japan's most prominent corporations have failed to keep up with shifts in the world economy. 
 ''Today marks a new starting line. JAL lives on,'' the transport minister, Seiji Maehara, said after the carrier entered a court-led reorganization. Kazuo Inamori, founder of the electronics company Kyocera and a top management guru in Japan, has been tapped as JAL's chief executive, succeeding Haruka Nishimatsu, who resigned.
 The bankruptcy case, coupled with a new Open Skies agreement between the United States and Japan, could herald an opening of Japan's rigid aviation sector, which is dominated by JAL and its rival, All Nippon Airlines.
 In recent months, Delta Air Lines and American Airlines pursued JAL in an escalating bidding war, with each airline and its alliance partners offering upward of $1 billion in assistance. Under the treaty, which will allow more flights and routes between the United States and Japan, each Japanese airline must choose an American partner and obtain antitrust approval from the Justice Department. All Nippon has already sided with United Airlines, a longtime partner in the Star Alliance.
 Though officials say an immediate cash infusion by an American carrier is unlikely, JAL's woes have provided a rare opportunity for outsiders to start to crack what has been for decades a highly protected industry.
 Japanese officials scrambled Tuesday to contain the panic over JAL's bankruptcy filing. Japanese diplomats have been mobilized to assure Tokyo's business partners that JAL's business will not be disrupted by a filing. Reservations and mileage points will be honored, the company said.
 ''Japan Airlines provides the foundation of our country's future development,'' the government said in a statement. ''Until its restructuring is complete, the Japanese government stands ready to offer JAL the assistance necessary to maintain stable and reliable operations.''
 A year ago, a bankruptcy filing would have been unthinkable for JAL, whose logo of a crane with wings outstretched came to symbolize Japan's rise as a modern industrial power. Under the long-governing Liberal Democratic Party, JAL was propped up first as a state-owned airline and then, after privatization in 1987, with generous bailouts -- even as it struggled to turn a profit.
 But a new government in Tokyo has promised to break with the past. The Democratic Party, which swept to power in September, has criticized the previous government for pouring money into a carrier while allowing problems to fester: huge legacy costs, a bloated work force, mounting pension costs and an aging fleet.
 Now, JAL and its investors are being forced to pay the price. The Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corporation, a state-backed turnaround body tasked by the court with the carrier's restructuring, plans to push JAL to eliminate 15,700 jobs -- a third of its work force -- and slash pension benefits. The body will also eliminate a fifth of its international routes, as well as unprofitable domestic destinations. 
 Shareholders will be wiped out in a 100 percent capital reduction, which will go toward paying off the airline's debt. The carrier's main creditor banks will be forced to write off as much as 350 billion yen. 
 Taxpayers will also bear part of the burden: Under the turnaround plan, JAL will receive 300 billion yen in public money and further state-backed loans for another 300 billion yen. 
 Despite the fresh funds, rising fuel costs, intense price competition and hefty reorganization costs are expected to weigh on JAL's bottom line. The carrier is headed for its fourth net loss in five years, and last week it drew on 145 billion yen in emergency assistance from a credit line supplied by a state-owned bank.
 Meanwhile, the Enterprise Turnaround Initiative Corporation has asked the airline to hold off accepting investments from Delta or American, according to a person briefed on the matter. Delta has offered JAL $500 million in equity, as well as a substantial increase in passengers and revenue from its SkyTeam alliance, while American has offered $1.4 billion for JAL to stay within its Oneworld group. Delta and American both reaffirmed their investment offers on Tuesday. 
 The bidding war for JAL broke out in November, when Delta made a surprise offer to invest in JAL in hopes of luring the airline away from the Oneworld alliance, which includes American, to the SkyTeam Alliance, which does not have a Japanese partner. Delta, one of the two biggest carriers from the United States to Japan, along with United, offered to lend management expertise to help the airline reorganize, suggesting privately that the deal could be similar to Fiat's management of Chrysler.
 American, which has far fewer flights to Japan, quickly countered the Delta offer, offering its own help and stressing the benefits of staying in the Oneworld alliance. Both airlines have strenuously courted the Japanese carrier, with senior executives making a number of trips to Japan to meet with airline and government officials. The Open Skies treaty, reached in December, raised the stakes for JAL to choose sides.
 However, any decision on an alliance will probably be put off, at least temporarily, while JAL sorts through the early complexities of its bankruptcy case.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Japan Airlines jet at Haneda Airport in Tokyo. JAL's planes will still fly during the bankruptcy, helped by government aid. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUNJI KUROKAWA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: Facing Restructuring: Japan Airlines filed for protection from its creditors and said its debts totaled 2.3 trillion yen, or $25.6 billion. The company may cut a third of its work force as part of a turnaround plan.
GRAPHIC: OPERATING REVENUE, 2008: Total: 1.95 trillion yen (Sources: company reports
 Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AVIATION TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); ELECTRONICS (72%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); MANAGEMENT THEORY (67%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (50%)

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (90%); KYOCERA CORP (56%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (55%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (90%); KYO (NYSE) (56%); 6971 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS334416 CAPACITOR, RESISTOR, COIL, TRANSFORMER & OTHER INDUCTOR MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



539 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Remaking His Life After Nearly Losing It in Colombia

BYLINE: By DANIEL E. SLOTNIK

 BODY:
The motorcycle pulled alongside Carlos Martin's Renault during a drive in Cartagena, Colombia. It was Dec. 18, 2000. Mr. Martin did not notice the bike, or the two men riding it, until they opened fire. 
 As Mr. Martin hit the floor, his brother, riding with him, pulled out a revolver and shot back. He hit one of the attackers, and they drove off, but not before they shot Cesar Baldiris, who was driving the Renault. Mr. Martin and his brother sped Mr. Baldiris to the hospital, but he had already died. 
 Mr. Martin had asked Mr. Baldiris to drive minutes earlier, so he could review documents in the back seat. 
 ''My friend go to the front to drive, and, therefore, now I'm alive,'' Mr. Martin said, shaking his head. ''But my friend died.'' 
 A few weeks ago, in his studio apartment in Lefrak City, Queens, Mr. Martin, 41, spoke of these terrifying events. His wife, Lourdes Verhelst, listened intently. Mr. Martin's current career as a video consultant at an electronics store is very different from his former life as a freelance political and economic adviser to the mayor of Cartagena. But at least nobody is trying to kill Mr. Martin in Queens.
 Mr. Martin never learned who was responsible for the attack, and does not believe he did anything to provoke it. 
 ''They don't see you like person,'' Mr. Martin said. ''They see you like you are government, and we have to attack you because you are government.'' Mr. Martin resolved to leave Colombia because he felt his bodyguards could not protect him.
 Mr. Martin hid at a friend's home after the shooting. He collected his savings and won asylum in the United States, arriving in New York in February 2001.
 ''For the beginning it was completely, completely difficult. Doesn't matter if you have bachelor degree, doesn't matter if you have master degree, whatever,'' said Mr. Martin, who holds both. ''You don't know how to write, you don't know how to read. Worse, you don't know how to speak.''
 Mr. Martin sought out Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York. Staff members there helped him find an English program, an apartment in the Bronx and work as a building maintenance supervisor. Mr. Martin landed the higher-paying retail job in 2006. 
 Mr. Martin's new job allowed him to rent a one-bedroom apartment in Kew Gardens, Queens, and about a year ago he returned to Colombia to marry Ms. Verhelst and bid farewell to his mother, who had died. While he was there, he was so afraid that he rarely left his house.
 Ms. Verhelst's visa requires her to return to Colombia after six months away. Now pregnant with their first child, a boy, who is due within days, Ms. Verhelst will go back to Colombia in April. She will stay there with the baby until she can secure documents to be in the United States for a longer period. 
 ''We have no other options,'' Ms. Verhelst said in Spanish, as Mr. Martin translated. ''So I have to adapt to the situation.'' 
 Mr. Martin earns about $1,600 a month before taxes. In good times, he can earn another $1,600 monthly in commissions. But times have not been good lately for selling electronics, and even after moving to a studio to save on rent, he has been hard-pressed to pay his bills. His monthly expenses run between $1,500 and $1,800 a month, with $900 going toward rent. 
 So in November Mr. Martin again turned to Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York, which referred him to Catholic Charities Brooklyn and Queens. Both agencies are among the seven beneficiaries of The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. A grant of $400 helped Mr. Martin pay that month's rent, when his income was particularly low. 
 But Mr. Martin does not complain about his straitened circumstances. 
 ''Definitely, it's completely different than my previous job in Colombia,'' Mr. Martin said. ''But the most important is to do something honestly, work and live honestly.''
 Previously recorded $5,881,907 Recorded Monday 0 Total $5,881,907 Last year to date $6,490,213 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Carlos Martin, once an adviser to political officials in Cartagena, Colombia, now works in an electronics store in New York. He and his wife, Lourdes Verhelst, are expecting their first child. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHELLE V. AGINS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: HOW TO HELP: Checks payable to The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund may be sent to 4 Chase Metrotech Center, 7th Floor East, Lockbox 5193, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11245. All gifts are acknowledged
 special letters are not possible. A check intended for a particular agency should be written to and mailed to the agency, noting that it is a Neediest Cases gift. BROOKLYN BUREAU OF COMMUNITY SERVICE 285 Schermerhorn Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11217 CATHOLIC CHARITIES BROOKLYN AND QUEENS 191 Joralemon Street Brooklyn, N.Y. 11201 CATHOLIC CHARITIES OF THE ARCHDIOCESE OF NEW YORK 1011 First Avenue New York, N.Y. 10022 CHILDREN'S AID SOCIETY 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 COMMUNITY SERVICE SOCIETY OF NEW YORK 105 East 22nd Street New York, N.Y. 10010 FEDERATION OF PROTESTANT WELFARE AGENCIES 281 Park Avenue South New York, N.Y. 10010 UJA-FEDERATION OF NEW YORK Church Street Station P.O. Box 4100 New York, N.Y. 10261-4100 Donations may be made with a credit card by phone at (800) 381-0075 or online, courtesy of NYCharities.org at nytimes.com/neediest or nycharities.org/neediest. For instructions on how to donate stock to the fund, call (212) 556-1137 or fax (212) 556- 1979. No agents or solicitors are authorized to seek contributions for The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund. The Times pays the fund's expenses, so all contributions go directly to the charities, which use them to provide services and cash assistance to the poor. Contributions are deductible from federal, state and city income taxes to the extent permitted by law. To delay may mean to forget. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (86%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (68%); RELIGION (60%); CHARITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%); COLOMBIA (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



540 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: Taking Office, Christie Sees State's Last Hope for Turnaround

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER and DAVID KOCIENIEWSKI

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
Saying he would not squander New Jersey's ''last, best hope'' to reverse its decline, Christopher J. Christie took office on Tuesday as the state's 55th governor, vowing to break through partisan gridlock to bring about lower taxes, economic resurgence and school choice.
 Facing an $8 billion deficit, falling tax receipts and high unemployment, Mr. Christie said he would slash state government and compel cities and towns to spend less. 
 ''Our state is losing ground,'' he said after his noontime swearing-in here. ''Our people are dispirited and wondering if our best days are truly still ahead of us.'' 
 But Mr. Christie, the first Republican elected governor in heavily Democratic New Jersey since 1997, also emphasized that the state could move beyond fear and uncertainty. ''We have the tools for a brighter future, if we change direction,'' he said. 
 The inauguration was the centerpiece of a no-frills day of celebration that began with a solemn Mass at the seat of the Archdiocese of Newark, the city where Mr. Christie was born, and ended at a low-key evening party at the two-year-old hockey arena in downtown Newark. 
 Few luminaries attended the festivities. Donald J. Trump sat in the front pew of the Cathedral Basilica of the Sacred Heart at the morning Eucharist celebration. Michael S. Steele, the Republican national chairman, and Woody Johnson, the owner of the Jets, attended the swearing-in at the Trenton War Memorial.
 Mr. Christie's speech offered more determination than inspiration, even when he called on legislators and citizens alike to dispense with cynicism and lend a hand.
 ''One person can make a difference,'' he said. ''I will make a difference.''
 Mr. Christie, 47, was received enthusiastically by a large crowd. But the change in power, and the paucity of detail about his plans, have cast a sense of uncertainty and tentativeness over the capital.
 Though he used the word ''change'' some 15 times -- repeatedly saying ''change has arrived,'' for example -- he shared few specifics about how the changes he envisioned would be implemented, and at what price.
 Winning approval for any significant measures will require the help of Democrats, who have controlled both houses of the Legislature since 2004. In the middle of his speech, Mr. Christie seemed to acknowledge as much, making a conspicuous display of bipartisanship when he beckoned the two Democratic legislative leaders to the podium for what he called ''a handshake of resolve and friendship.''
 One of the leaders whose hands he clasped, Senate President Stephen M. Sweeney of Gloucester County, later observed that Mr. Christie's agenda would require enormous cooperation on many levels.
 ''Today is Governor Christie's day to enjoy,'' Mr. Sweeney said. ''Come tomorrow, the real work begins.''
 Details of Mr. Christie's blueprint for the state are likely to emerge on March 16, when he must submit a budget. In his speech, he touched on only the broadest of goals: ending partisanship, establishing new accountability standards, curtailing ''runaway spending'' and lowering taxes to promote growth.
 ''Our people are suffering under the burden government has placed on them,'' he said.
 Mr. Christie also repeated his call for a transformation of the state's education system, saying that the failure of many inner-city schools had wasted countless young lives and left communities devastated. 
 Last week, he nominated as education commissioner Bret D. Schundler, the former Jersey City mayor, an advocate for school choice. Mr. Christie has made clear he will push for more charter schools and for vouchers so parents can send their children out of failing districts.
 In some of the most forceful language of the address, Mr. Christie vowed to hold educators and administrators accountable to higher standards. He said they needed to offer hope, and alternatives, to parents whose children were receiving an inadequate education.
 ''The era of broken schools and broken streets and broken dreams in our cities has not worked,'' he said. ''Too many urban school districts have failed despite massive spending per pupil.''
 Mr. Christie offered the narrowest of praise for his predecessor, Jon S. Corzine, who sat nearby, saying Mr. Corzine's efforts on behalf of children's health would long be remembered.
 But Mr. Christie's speech contained an implicit but important rebuke of Mr. Corzine, who won office in 2005 with big promises -- like sharp reductions in property taxes -- that he quickly backed away from.
 ''As for me, I will heed the message I have heard over and over again from our citizens as I have traveled around the state in the last 11 weeks,'' Mr. Christie said. ''Simply put, they have told me to do what I said I would do.''
 If Mr. Christie came of age in the Reagan years, his speech was more reminiscent of George W. Bush, who in 2001 appointed him as United States attorney. He urged an end to ''expensive and sometimes thoughtless'' federal mandates, saying the states were ''supposed to be laboratories of democracy, not guinea pigs for failed federal experiments.''
 Although he used a prompter to deliver the 28-minute address, and hewed closely to his prepared text, Mr. Christie pounced on an opportunity to flash his quick wit.
 At one point he singled out several ''New Jersey heroes,'' including Jim Benedict of Freehold, the founder of a soup kitchen that, in Mr. Christie's telling, provides free meals to the hungry three times a week. Mr. Benedict duly stood and was applauded, but called out to Mr. Christie that the charity actually serves meals four days a week.
 Laughing at his error, Mr. Christie replied, ''In this administration, Jim, we're shooting for five.'' The audience roared.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Christopher J. Christie with his wife, Mary Pat, and two of his children, Andrew and Sarah, after being sworn in Tuesday as governor of New Jersey. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); RELIGION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); CITIES (71%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (66%); APPROVALS (60%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (54%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (57%); MICHAEL STEELE (53%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (92%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



541 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 549 words

HEADLINE: A Grab for Keepsakes As the Gavel Falls

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS

 BODY:
IT was an everything-must-go sale, and everything went. 
 Or at least, all the major lots were briskly gaveled away during the marathon three-day auction last week of flotsam from the foundering of the bankrupt Tavern on the Green. 
 More than 1,000 in-house and online bidders grazed on a trove of 25,000 colorful and memory-tugging items at the landmark restaurant in Central Park. 
 The treasures ranged from samovars to murals, leaded-glass ceilings, banana-split dishes, doormen's green frock coats and a Wurlitzer jukebox. 
 By the time it ended on Jan. 15, the sale took in some $3.5 million including the 22 percent premium, the fee buyers paid to Guernsey's auction house, which conducted the sale. 
 Sotheby's auction house had assessed a portion of the inventory at $8 million before the economic downturn. 
 Given the sale's short lead time and its post-holiday bidding window, ''we never knew what to expect from this auction,'' said Michael Desiderio, Tavern's chief operating officer. ''The sad reality is that it's finally over.''
 Not quite. The take fell far short of satisfying more than $9 million owed to more than 450 unsecured creditors of Tavern, which closed on New Year's Day. 
 So far most of the money realized from Tavern's assets has gone to its lone secured creditor, TD Bank, which is owed $6.6 million. Up to now, Tavern's assets have yielded not only the auction proceeds but also $3.5 million from the sale of Tavern's Long Island City warehouse. Any profits from the last few months of Tavern's operations may be eaten up by a proliferation of lawyers. 
 And so, hundreds of unsecured creditors are waiting anxiously for a court decision on the last of the restaurant's major assets: the Tavern on the Green name, which has been valued at $19 million. A federal judge is weighing whether New York City -- Tavern's landlord -- or the family of the flamboyant restaurateur Warner LeRoy, which ran the restaurant since 1976, owns the trademark. 
 Mr. LeRoy, the impresario who made Tavern one of the nation's highest-grossing restaurants until its startlingly rapid devolution, handed over the restaurant to his daughter, Jennifer Oz LeRoy, before he died in 2001 at age 65. 
 But in August the city conferred the 20-year operating license for Tavern, starting this year, on Dean J. Poll, operator of the Boathouse in Central Park. He has yet to sign a contract with the city, and the reopening date is strictly T.B.A. 
 Meanwhile, hundreds of bidders have a ''keepsake of the legendary restaurant,'' as Molly McGuire of Fairfield, Conn., put it while happily making off with a silvered cake stand for which she had paid $900 plus the premium. She first crossed Tavern's threshold in 1981. 
 Three leaded-glass ceilings from one of Mr. LeRoy's previous restaurants, Maxwell's Plum, sold for a total of more than $350,000 including the premium. 
 A stained-glass peacock sold for $75,000. Rare chestnut paneling, sculptural figures in the decorative ceiling of the Crystal Room; and a 40-foot-long mural in the Park Room were bought by the city for close to $150,000, including the premium.
 The 24 banana-split dishes sold for $175. The first doorman's coat (there were several) went for $500. And the Wurlitzer jukebox? That went for $7,000.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GOING, GOING ... At the Tavern on the Green auction. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (91%); DRINKING PLACES (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (89%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (76%); TRADEMARKS (73%); LEAD (70%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (64%); LAWYERS (64%); JUDGES (62%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); EXECUTIVES (52%)

COMPANY: GUERNSEY'S (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 BUSINESS SERVICES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



542 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Mara Cites A Lack Of Progress In Talks

BYLINE: By JUDY BATTISTA

 BODY:
The Giants co-owner John Mara said Tuesday he was resigned to an uncapped season in 2010 and thought the union and owners might be moving further apart in talks toward a new labor agreement. 
 Mara was one of the owners who took part in the 11th negotiating session with union leaders in Washington on Tuesday. He is the first owner to speak extensively since negotiations began. 
 An uncapped year would have no salary limits or floors for teams and would begin in March. It would also start the clock ticking toward a lockout starting in March 2011. 
 Mara said he still had hope that a lockout could be averted. 
 ''I don't think we're making any progress,'' Mara said in a telephone interview. ''We made a proposal in early November. I don't think we've received a meaningful counterproposal. The point that we try to make to them is that the costs and risks are much greater than they ever have been. Especially in this economy. I don't think there has been enough of a recognition on their part of that concept.''
 Mara added, ''They want a deal that is equal to or better than the existing one, and that is not acceptable to us.'' 
 Mara's comments represent a ratcheting up of rhetoric between the two sides and is particularly noteworthy. Until now, owners have avoided speaking publicly about negotiations at the behest of Commissioner Roger Goodell.
 But in recent weeks, leaks have revealed some details. By allowing Mara, one of the league's most respected owners, to speak about feelings privately shared by other owners, management is likely hoping to win over public opinion. 
 The crux of negotiations is how to divide a revenue pie of about $8.5 billion. The current collective bargaining agreement calls for players to receive nearly 60 percent of revenue, but union leaders are concerned that the $8.5 billion does not represent the true revenue pool available to players because of credits owners receive to pay for league costs like NFL Network.
 The union views the real percentage players receive as closer to 51 percent, and union leaders think owners want a rollback of 18 percent, which would put the players' share at about 33 percent. The union has insisted that owners provide financial information to prove their situation is dire enough to merit a rollback.
 Owners have countered that the union already knows where the overwhelming majority of the money goes.
 The owners' position is that the 18 percent would come from additional credits against the revenue base. The effect on veteran players would be mitigated by, among other things, a proposed rookie salary cap that would make more money available to pay veteran players and a restructured season that, with additional regular-season games, would produce more revenue. Owners think they need the additional money to invest in things like new stadiums and that current players would not experience a decline in overall compensation. 
 Both sides seem to agree that a rookie cap is necessary to redirect money to current and retired players. 
 An e-mail message from the union leader DeMaurice Smith to player representatives obtained by ESPN this month said the union had proposed a plan that would redirect money that from rookies to veterans. 
 Owners would like a rookie wage scale to be implemented in time for the 2010 draft class, even if there is no new collective bargaining agreement. The savings from the first year, estimated at around $200 million, could then go to a fund for retired players. 
 ''We'd rather have money going to retired players and veteran players as opposed to unproven rookies,'' Mara said.
 The need for a limit on rookie wages may be the only common ground players and management have. 
 ''I'm frustrated,'' Mara said. ''March 1 is coming pretty quickly.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); LOCKOUTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



543 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS AND BONDS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Drug Companies and a Pivotal Senate Race Help Lead the Markets Higher

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
The possibility that the dynamics of the health care debate could shift helped spur Wall Street higher on Tuesday, overshadowing concerns about the strength of banks and the American consumer.
 Investors bought on the prospect that a Republican might win the Senate seat once held by Edward M. Kennedy in Massachusetts, denying Democrats the 60th vote needed to surmount Republican filibusters and advance health legislation. 
 As voters went to the polls in Massachusetts, shares of pharmaceutical companies surged; the chance that the legislation could stumble reduced concerns that profits would suffer. Merck climbed 2.91 percent, and Pfizer was up 2.62 percent. Rising health stocks pulled the broader market higher, along with gains in materials and utilities shares. 
 Dan Greenhaus, chief economic strategist for Miller Tabak, said investors' concerns over the legislation had eased as the prospect of a Republican victory increased.
 ''A challenge to the health care proposal may be seen as a positive for government spending,'' Mr. Greenhaus said.
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average ended at a 15-month high, climbing almost 1.1 percent, or 115.78 points, to 10,725.43. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 1.25 percent, or 14.20 points, to 1,150.23, and the Nasdaq was up 1.42 percent, or 32.41 points, to 2,320.40.
 Amid Tuesday's zeal, however, there were indications that financial firms faced high hurdles as they tried to escape the worst recession in decades. The banking giant Citigroup reported a loss for a second consecutive year, held back by losses on mortgages and credit cards.
 Citigroup's figures followed similarly cautious results from JPMorgan Chase last week. Taken together, the reports suggested Americans were still struggling to pay the bills amid high unemployment and depleted savings accounts. 
 ''What's going to be critical for banks is their ability to cut their loan losses -- that's going to be the principal source of earnings growth,'' said David A. Rosenberg, chief economist and strategist for Gluskin Sheff. ''Citigroup's loss certainly raises a bit of a cautionary flag in terms of the entire financial sector.'' 
 Still, investors said Citigroup's results could have been much worse, and the $1.6 billion loss in 2009 was a stark improvement from the $27.7 billion deficit in 2008. Shares of Citigroup rose 3.51 percent and Bank of America climbed 0.37 percent. JPMorgan Chase, by contrast, fell 0.92 percent.
 In other markets, the dollar gained and the euro fell on questions about the ability of several European nations, including Greece, to pay debt. As stocks gained, oil rose $1.02 to $79.04 a barrel after touching a three-week low during the day.
 Investors were encouraged by heavy merger and acquisition activity, analysts said. Cadbury agreed to a takeover offer from Kraft on Tuesday, worth about $19 billion, that would create the world's largest candy maker. Shares of Cadbury rose 6.15 percent.
 In addition, Berkshire Hathaway said it would acquire part of the Swiss Reinsurance Company for nearly $1.3 billion, sending Berkshire shares up 2.59 percent.
 Investors did not seem rattled by news that a barometer of confidence among home builders had fallen to its lowest level since June. Disappointing figures from the housing sector have become familiar headlines. Home prices continue to decline in some areas despite efforts by the government to revive sales through tax credits. 
 European markets closed higher. The FTSE 100 in London was up 0.34 percent, the CAC 40 in Paris rose 0.8 percent, and the DAX in Frankfurt climbed 0.98 percent. The Nikkei average in Tokyo declined 0.83 percent, the Hang Seng in Hong Kong rose 1.02 percent, and the Shanghai index was up 0.3 percent.
 Bruce McCain, chief investment strategist for Key Private Bank, said investors were hopeful that a recovery was taking hold, especially in Asia, after China said it would tighten monetary policy. 
 Still, the recovery remains sluggish and uneven, he said.
 ''The markets are probably going to have a harder time beating expectations,'' Mr. McCain said. ''The hope is there is additional strength that may flow through from overseas that may help the U.S. economy get back on its feet.''
 The Treasury's 10-year note fell 4/32, to 97 12/32. The yield rose to 3.69 percent, from 3.67 percent late Friday.
 Following are the results of Tuesday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (76%); MERGERS (76%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); RECESSION (74%); CURRENCIES (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); PFIZER INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (85%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GLUSKIN SHEFF & ASSOCIATES INC (52%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); PFZ (LSE) (90%); PFEB (BRU) (90%); PFE (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (85%); JPM (LSE) (85%); 8634 (TSE) (85%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (TSX) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (90%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (90%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (85%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (52%)

PERSON: TED KENNEDY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



544 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; TV SPORTS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: NBC Haunted by Its Knockout Bid for the Games

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR. 
E-mail: sandor@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The Winter Olympics start in 23 days, and NBC expects to lose $200 million on them.
 But it didn't have to be that way -- even with an economy that has shredded NBC's advertising assumptions.
 In June 2003, executives from NBC, ESPN and Fox gathered at the International Olympic Committee's headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland, to bid for the television rights to the 2010 Winter Games, which had not yet been awarded to Vancouver, and the 2012 Summer Games, which would be given to London. 
 NBC approached the competitive bidding as the comfortable incumbent, having acquired the rights to every Olympics from 2000 to 2008 for $3.5 billion in one-on-one talks with the I.O.C. that excluded rival networks.
 NBC was a much stronger network then, in second place in prime time, not fourth, as it is now. Jay Leno and Conan O'Brien were where they belonged in late night.
 The I.O.C. made it clear to the networks that it wanted $2 billion for the 2010 and '12 rights.
 Fox didn't bite; it offered $1.3 billion. ESPN proposed a revenue share. 
 And NBC? It met the I.O.C.'s expectations, agreeing to pay $820 million for Vancouver and $1.18 billion for London. And General Electric, its parent company, offered $200 million extra for a global sponsorship. 
 By trumping Fox and ESPN by as much as it did, NBC assumed a constant if not ever-growing market for Olympic advertising that it believed would produce about $900 million in national sales for Vancouver. But the formulas that NBC had used to divine with reasonable accuracy the market as far as 13 years in advance (from 1995, when it bought the rights to five Olympics, to producing the '08 Beijing Games) did not prove magical.
 NBC and G.E. did not plan for a recession, much less the Big One, proving no more adept at reading their crystal ball than Alan Greenspan was at his. NBC did not see that the share of Olympic advertising coming from global and domestic sponsors of the Summer and Winter Games would fall to 44 percent from 66 percent. It certainly didn't see the near collapse of the auto market, taking with it General Motors' $100-million-per-Olympics ad buy.
 ''Our luck had been good,'' Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Universal Sports, said Tuesday in an interview. ''But we didn't foresee what would happen to the economy in 2008.'' He added, ''The rabbit's foot that was mine, or ours, got lost.''
 Fox approached its 2003 bidding without the internal love for the Olympics that NBC has. Fox could still recall the shabby way that the I.O.C. handled its proposal to buy the rights to the 2000 Sydney Games. Yet, all these years later, Ebersol says that he thought Fox would go higher, or ''I would have been at $1.8 billion.''
 Well, maybe, as we pause to chuckle a little. And maybe, as he adds, David Hill, the chairman of Fox Sports, ''beclouded our judgment to make us go to $2 billion.'' Hill is charming but is not known for sprinkling pixie dust on his competitors, or he might have been able to retain the Bowl Championship Series rights that are now ESPN's.
 Hill said Monday that bidding for the Olympics ''is a gamble, and you have to let your head rule your heart.'' 
 ''You have to realize the advertising market has its highs and lows,'' he continued. ''I took a far from cheery, optimistic view. You also had to assume that network TV was not going to correct itself overnight.''
 Randy Falco, the former president of the NBC Universal Television Group, said there was ''enormous internal debate'' about the revenue projections that backed the bid. Before the top NBC and G.E. officials signed off on it, he said: ''We all had to look at it with the same set of eyes and determine whether we were stretching for this. We liked the franchise and we didn't want to give it up. It's a great brand to be associated with.''
 This is a weird time at NBC, amid pre-Olympic promotion going off as usual, with 243 Vancouver promos already shown on NBC through early January, said TNS Media Intelligence; plenty more are coming, the equivalent of 2,500 ratings points' worth of Lindsey Vonn & Company across all the NBC Universal networks. 
 Meanwhile, NBC Universal is being acquired by Comcast.
 And Ebersol has inserted himself into the Leno-O'Brien debate, defending Leno over O'Brien, a twist on his support for David Letterman over Leno to replace Johnny Carson on ''The Tonight Show.'' On Monday night, Letterman said that Ebersol would be better off being in Vancouver ''picking out sweaters for Bob Costas.''
 And the world knows that NBC will lose $200 million on Vancouver, which was revealed last month by Jeffrey R. Immelt, G.E.'s chief executive. Ideally, Ebersol said, he would have preferred that Immelt wait to reveal the losses until the end of January ''so it didn't cause any disruption of sales.''
 ''When you say something like that,'' Ebersol said, ''advertisers think they'll get a bargain, and we've told them there aren't any.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Marcelo Balboa, left, and Matt Vasgersian analyzed soccer from an NBC studio in Manhattan during the 2008 Summer Olympics. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JENNIFER S. ALTMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Members of the news media touring the Vancouver Olympic Center on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DARRYL DYCK/CANADIAN PRESS, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINTER OLYMPICS (91%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); OLYMPICS (90%); WINTER SPORTS (90%); LATE NIGHT TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (78%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (92%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (58%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); GM (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: CONAN O'BRIEN (58%); ALAN GREENSPAN (57%); JAY LENO (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (94%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (92%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) CANADA (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



545 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland Settles Orchestra Strike

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
The musicians of the Cleveland Orchestra and their management settled a strike on Tuesday that lasted little longer than a quick scherzo but made clear the tensions raised by difficult economic times across the orchestra world.
 The orchestra struck on Monday, and negotiators met at noon that day at a mediator's office a few miles outside the city. They reached a tentative agreement shortly after dawn on Tuesday, and it was ratified later in the day. 
 Elsewhere, the musicians and administrators of the Seattle Symphony remain at loggerheads, as leaders of other major orchestras around the country are struggling with decreasing revenues amid the recession. Orchestras depend overwhelmingly on donated money to finance their operations. Those sums can fluctuate, while healthy but hard-won salaries for the players remain fixed, along with the cost of large administrative bureaucracies. 
 The pact in Cleveland calls for a pay freeze for this season and the next, a 3 percent increase for the first half of the third season and a 2 percent increase for the second half of that season.
 Management was seeking a 5 percent pay cut for this season and offering a return to par for the next and a 2.5 percent increase for the third. The musicians were seeking a freeze for just this season, with a new contract to be negotiated over the summer. 
 While the musicians avoided a first-season pay cut, they agreed to play 10 extra rehearsals or concerts without compensation over the course of the contract. The agreement also gives the orchestra some budget predictability as it struggles to contain $4 million in yearly deficits. And the musicians agreed to a proposal by the orchestra that they contribute more to health insurance premiums, starting in July 2011.
 ''This is the right settlement for the institution,'' Gary Hanson, the orchestra's executive director, said in an interview. ''I don't think anybody here is adjudicating win or loss.'' 
 Mr. Hanson said it was difficult to quantify how much revenue the musicians' donated time would yield. ''It's a very meaningful provision of the contract,'' he said.
 The musicians argued that their pay scale had fallen behind the nation's other elite orchestras, and maintained that any further erosion would topple the Cleveland Orchestra from its pedestal as a major international ensemble.
 ''We are very happy that management has heard our message and agreed not to further erode our base compensation, allowing us to stay as competitive as possible with the marketplace,'' Jeffrey Rathbun, the chairman of the players' committee and an oboist, said in a statement. ''We look forward to working together to build our base of support and continue our tradition of excellence.'' 
 While the strike took place on a day off for the orchestra, it did cause the cancellation of a two-day visit to Bloomington, Ind., where it was to play a concert and give coaching sessions at Indiana University. The music director, Franz Welser-Most, said he still planned to conduct the student orchestra, and the orchestra's general manager, Gary Ginstling, planned to lead a seminar. The orchestra management said it would try to reschedule the concert.
 The settlement avoids cancellation of a 10-day residency in Miami, where the orchestra is to play five concerts at the Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts. The extended visit to Miami is part of the Cleveland Orchestra's strategy of establishing beachheads outside its hometown to raise more money. Cleveland's shrinking industrial and business base and population have hurt its ability to bring in funds.
 The orchestra has raised about $9 million in Miami over the last four years, and has similar ambitions for Europe and New York.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The recently restored Severance Hall in Cleveland, home of the city's orchestra. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEN BLAZE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVES (78%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (90%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



546 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Russia Seeks to Cleanse Its Palate of U.S. Chicken

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SCHWIRTZ

DATELINE: MOSCOW 

 BODY:
At the mere mention of American chicken at a central Moscow market, the poultry vendors pounce.
 ''We don't eat American chicken,'' snarled one. 
 ''Americans raise their chickens on chemicals,'' another called from across stacks of Russian birds. ''They're all fat. There's no taste.'' 
 Of all the disputes great and petty that have marred relations between Russia and the United States over the years, chicken has provoked more than its share of angst and animosity. The United States under the first Bush administration flooded Russia with American chicken as food aid in the early 1990s, products that Russians came to call ''Bush legs.'' 
 These stocks -- mostly thighs and other parts, not many drumsticks -- helped feed hungry Russians reeling from an economic collapse. They also came to symbolize the humiliation of a once-great nation reduced to dependence on food handouts.
 The Russian government has spent over a decade seeking to do away with this lingering vestige of post-Soviet misery. In the latest attempt, the government imposed an open-ended ban on American chicken imports that started Tuesday, ostensibly because United States companies had failed to adhere to new food safety regulations. 
 Representatives from both countries began talks on Tuesday in Moscow in an attempt to resolve the dispute, though neither side seemed prepared to make concessions.
 The move might cause poultry prices here to spike, but there was nevertheless a tinge of national pride last week when Prime Minister Vladimir V. Putintold Russian poultry producers that Russia was no longer dependent on Bush legs. 
 ''Unfortunately, among many of our partners -- and above all I mean companies from the United States -- we still do not see a readiness to observe our standards,'' he said. ''If some of our foreign suppliers do not want or are not in a position to fulfill our safety requirements, then we will use other sources.'' 
 This has no doubt unnerved American producers, who gained a foothold in the Russian market in the early 1990s, in part, their Russian critics say, by swamping Russian producers with cheap chicken. Since then, Russian officials have angered American producers and officials with a raft of restrictions and quotas meant to help domestic producers. 
 The Kremlin has also used chicken as a diplomatic weapon with the United States, which, aside from poultry, has relatively little trade with Russia. Moscow imposed a similar ban in 2002, after the United States raised steel tariffs, and it banned several American chicken companies shortly after Russia's war with Georgia in 2008, after accusing the United States of helping to instigate the violence. 
 The continuing chicken dispute has hindered Russia's entry into the World Trade Organization. 
 But domestically, the restrictions, coupled with heavy government support of the poultry industry, appear to have worked. 
 ''There has been a rapid rise in production consisting of 15 to 16 percent per year,'' said Andrei N. Teriokhin, head of the Association of Russian Poultry Market Operators. Domestic production now accounts for 75 percent of demand. 
 ''In the next four to five years,'' Mr. Teriokhin said, ''Russia will be able to support itself.'' 
 At Dorogomilovsky Market in Moscow, the chickens arranged lovingly at the poultry counter all come from farms just outside the capital, the vendors said. 
 ''This bird was running around yesterday,'' said a burly vendor named Mikhail, pointing out a chicken that was clearly freshly plucked. ''They showed us on television where those Bush legs come from,'' he said. ''They are all American military surplus.'' 
 Propaganda campaigns aside, United States companies were still able to sell about 600,000 tons of chicken last year worth roughly $800 million, according to American and Russian officials, by far the largest share of Russian poultry imports.
 But the new regulations, which came into effect on Jan. 1, could endanger this lucrative trade. 
 At issue is the chlorine bath that American companies use to disinfect chickens after slaughter. Russian health officials declared that method unsafe, and they outlawed the procedure in 2008. The European Union has long enforced a similar ban on the procedure.
 The Russian government gave companies, both Russian and foreign, until this year to adopt new procedures. About 90 percent of Russian companies complied, officials said. 
 The Americans, however, protested. The requirements would force American poultry producers to completely overhaul their sanitation systems, officials and producers have said. 
 Moreover, American producers have said that the Russian government has provided no scientific evidence that chorine disinfection is unsafe. The USA Poultry and Egg Export Council wrote a letter to the Russian government last November, citing several scientific studies that found the opposite to be true. 
 But the science of the matter, it seems, is not the most important point. Rather, as Gennady Onishchenko, Russia's chief sanitary officer, noted in an interview in the official newspaper Rossiiskaya Gazeta last month, the issue is one of principle.
 ''A problem has arisen with one country: the United States, which is again continuing to insist that we show them that it is harmful,'' Mr. Onishchenko said. ''We tell them, 'Excuse me, we pay the money, so we set the conditions for what kind of meat we want and what kind we don't.' '' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A market in Moscow. America flooded Russia with chicken as food aid in the early 1990s under the first Bush administration.
 The Russian government imposed an open-ended ban on United States chicken imports that started on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VALERI NISTRATOV FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (93%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); GOVERNMENT SUPPORT OF BUSINESS (76%); FOOD CHARITIES (74%); PRODUCT SAFETY (74%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (74%); FOOD PRICES (73%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (73%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (71%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (66%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); IMPORT CONTROLS (66%); TALKS & MEETINGS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (98%); GEORGIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



547 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: When Fingers Would Fumble, Chefs Turn to Tweezers

BYLINE: By OLIVER STRAND

 BODY:
EVERY so often, a tool will leap across professional borders and become standard in restaurant kitchens. The blowtorch, we now know, caramelizes as well as it solders. Today, the woodworker's Microplane rasp is far more likely to zest a lemon than shape a credenza.
 The most recent cross-disciplinary tool in a chef's batterie de cuisine comes from the operating room: medical tweezers. In some of the country's most ambitious restaurants, a pair of them allows a chef to put the final, seemingly impossible touches on a dish. 
 ''I was using tweezers to handle a thin stream of strawberry puree frozen with liquid nitrogen because if you touch it, it falls apart,'' said Grant Achatz, the chef at Alinea, in Chicago. ''Tweezers allow boundary-pushing with scale and texture.'' 
 His restaurant bought 100 of them. ''Now we give them to our cooks when they start,'' Mr. Achatz said. ''Most slip them into the pocket of their chef's coat. They're always there. They're always used.''
 Tweezers are altering how chefs move around the kitchens in restaurants like Corton, in New York; and McCrady's, in Charleston, S.C.; and Manresa, in Los Gatos, Calif. Sit at the counter of Commis in Oakland, Calif., and you can watch the chef, James Syhabout, and his staff in the open kitchen intently assembling each dish with a series of almost soundless movements. When all the cooks are bent over one plate, tweezers poised, it looks like a silent game of Operation played backwards.
 Surgeons use medical tweezers, which have delicate, thin tips, for suturing, cauterizing or removing debris. Chefs favor them because they are more gentle than tweezers designed for plucking eyebrows or extracting pin bones from a halibut. An offset tip is less likely to bruise a blossom just clipped from a flowering herb. And chefs favor tweezers over fingers as well as tongs, which are banned in some restaurant kitchens (too clumsy).
 Chefs say that tweezers started to appear in European restaurants in the mid-1990s. They were the Western answer to kitchen chopsticks, which have been used to assemble plates in Asia for centuries. 
 Tweezers started gaining traction in the United States a few years ago. Tim Mussig, the purchasing director for the professional kitchen supply company J. B. Prince, said sales of tweezers have been growing steadily since the store introduced them in November 2008. 
 J. B. Prince carries three models of tweezers made by medical suppliers: offset, curved tip and needle tip. They're all a touch over six inches long. The most expensive one costs $9.90. 
 (The company also sells a longer ''tweezer tong'' that can be used for plating or cooking.)
 The more intricate and immaculate the plate, the more it is likely that tweezers played a role. Chefs say tweezers let them assemble meticulous compositions quickly, and with such consistency they look the same every time. 
 ''As the food becomes more precise, there's a lot of handling involved,'' said Daniel Humm, the chef at Eleven Madison Park in Manhattan. ''There might be 10 things on a dish, but tweezers keep your hands clean and you keep the plate clean.'' 
 Just as important, they make all that work appear effortless. 
 The nasturtiums scattered stamen-side up, or the microherbs balanced on the tips of steamed vegetables, or the paper-thin slices of vegetables draped Dali-like over cured Japanese beef? They were all placed there, with surgical precision, with tweezers.
 ''It's harder to make it look like you didn't try,'' said the chef David Chang, whose kitchen crew at Momofuku Ko tweezes extensively. ''It's more difficult to make it seem it's plated as it falls. That's what we call it, 'as it falls.' It's not rustic. It's naturalistic. It sounds stupid, but you're using tweezers to make it seem natural.''
 Increasingly, this kind of naturalism is the look of fine dining. Symmetry and geometry are giving way to artful jumbles and cascading forms. Microgreens, for instance, seem to have drifted in on a gentle breeze. It all might look tossed together, but it's about as accidental as a $200 bed-head haircut.
 ''The closer you get to the tip of a flower, or a snail's shell or a beehive, you see there's an order to it, but it's wild,'' said John Shields, the chef at Town House in Chilhowie, Va. (Mr. Shields has used tweezers since working in the kitchen at Alinea.) ''I'm looking at a tree right now, and it seems random, but then when you walk up to it you see it's perfect.''
 Many credit the French chef Michel Bras, who keeps tweezers in his white jacket, as a pioneer of gastronomic naturalism. The food at Bras, his three-Michelin-star restaurant in Laguiole, is famed for its exactness, though it takes its visual inspiration less from a formal garden than a walk in the woods.
 Sometimes, tweezers even position elements that might seem too big to tweeze. At Eleven Madison Park, black trumpet mushrooms accompanying cochon de lait are placed with tweezers before being sauced with a spoon. Besides allowing chefs to compose the look of a dish with a pinpoint precision, tweezers give them extraordinary control over the way a dish tastes, too. ''You put these lusty herbal flavors exactly where you want them,'' said Christopher Kostow, the chef at the Restaurant at Meadowood in St. Helena, Calif. ''You're determining how the dish unfurls.''
 As tweezers proliferate they could become as much a symbol as a tool: the foam siphon, squeeze bottle or ring mold for this generation. Or the economy might get in the way.
 ''You often associate tweezers with exceptionally whimsical -- and I daresay pretentious -- dining,'' Mr. Kostow said. ''It's becoming more standard in the world of haute gastronomy, but the world of haute gastronomy is rapidly shrinking. You don't need tweezers for pizza and pasta.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PINPOINTING: The chef Paul Liebrandt, above, uses tweezers at Corton in TriBeCa. Left, at Alinea in Chicago, David Beran makes tiny garnishes behave. Top, composed with care: marinated oysters, left, at Townhouse in Chilhowie, Va., and the prawn roulade at Eleven Madison Park, right. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EVAN SUNG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
PETER WYNN THOMPSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
STEPHANIE KLEIN-DAVIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOHN LEI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (87%); CHARLESTON, SC, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (54%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); ASIA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



548 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Won't Rush To Pass Senate Bill

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Scott Brown's decisive Senate victory in Massachusetts imperiled the fate of the Democratic health care overhaul in Tuesday as House Democrats indicated they would not quickly approve a Senate-passed health care measure and send it to President Obama. 
 After a meeting of House Democratic leaders even as Mr. Brown's win was being declared, top lawmakers said they were weighing their options but the prospect of finishing off the debate with House passage of the Senate plan appeared to significantly diminish.
 Noting that the election in Massachusetts turned on a variety of different factors like the economy and local issues, Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland and a top party campaign strategist, said resistance to the emerging health legislation also figured in the anti-Democratic equation.
 ''Health care was also part of the debate, and the people of Massachusetts were right to be upset about provisions in the Senate bill like the Nebraska purchase and other special deals,'' Mr. Van Hollen said, referring to elements included in the bill to win the votes of Democratic senators and round up 60 votes.
 The comment was a clear indication that Democrats were recalibrating their approach on health care, leaving them a diminishing and politically difficult set of choices.
 House approval of the Senate plan was favored by some lawmakers and strategists as a way to quickly resolve the issue and deliver the president a bill on a signature domestic achievement with just one final House vote. Remaining problems could be worked out with a subsequent piece of legislation.
 But many House Democrats expressed deep reservations about the Senate bill, and those complaints, combined with the message sent by the Massachusetts electorate, apparently were sufficient to leave Speaker Nancy Pelosi of California and her lieutenants reluctant by Tuesday night about moving in that direction.
 Democrats now face decisions on whether to give up on the health care fight -- an approach few lawmakers appear willing to entertain -- or perhaps pull together a scaled-back measure and use special procedural rules that would eliminate the need for 60 votes in the Senate. But it is not clear how many of the key provisions of the legislation could be passed under such a procedure.
 At the same time, Mr. Brown appeared likely to claim his seat quickly, with Democrats saying their new Republican colleague would be sworn in as soon as he could present documents certifying his election.
 ''The people of Massachusetts have spoken,'' said Senator Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada and the majority leader.
 The timing of Mr. Brown's swearing-in has been a point of contention. Republicans and conservative activists have raised the possibility that Democrats might stall and use the delay to force through a final health care bill while Senator Paul G. Kirk Jr., the Democrat appointed to the seat, was still a member of the Senate.
 Democrats had discounted that possibility, which seemed all but dead Tuesday as Senator Jim Webb, a Virginia Democrat and supporter of the measure, called for the Senate to take no votes on health care legislation until Mr. Brown could assume the seat vacated by the late Edward M. Kennedy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (89%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



549 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1271 words

HEADLINE: Columbia Setback Puts Eminent Domain in Spotlight

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
In 2005, the United States Supreme Court upheld the right of officials in New London, Conn., to force the sale of private homes in a waterfront neighborhood to make way for a development project intended to improve the city's tax base. The decision caused an uproar around the country, spurring 43 states to pass legislation limiting, to one degree or another, the use of eminent domain.
 New York, however, was not among them. Some lawmakers tried to revise the state's condemnation procedures in the wake of the Connecticut case, but their bills died because of strenuous opposition from the Bloomberg administration.
 Now, however, attention is again being focused on whether New York has too much power to force the sale of private property for economic development. A recent appellate court decision barred a state agency from condemning businesses occupying land that Columbia University wants for its $6.3 billion expansion. Even if the strongly worded ruling is overturned, as several land-use lawyers expect, it is providing fodder for people who believe the existing system is unfair to property owners. 
 At a public hearing in Harlem this month, Norman Siegel, a former executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union who represents Tuck-It-Away, a self-storage company that says it has spent $2 million battling Columbia's plans, called eminent domain reform ''the civil rights issue of the 21st century.''
 The opinion on Dec. 3 by the New York Supreme Court's appellate division, which found there was no civic or public purpose or blight to justify condemning Tuck-It-Away's buildings for the university's new campus, has unnerved public officials and developers. 
 The Columbia decision ''is the first thing that's happened in New York that suggests the threat of a change in our eminent domain law,'' said Kathryn S. Wylde, chief executive of the Partnership for New York City, a leading business group. ''I think it's frightening because there are few more important investments in our city's future than that which Columbia is making.''
 The clamor for reform is also being driven by a recent wave of sentiment against development in New York, as demonstrated last month when the City Council defied Mr. Bloomberg and rejected a plan by the Related Companies to convert the Kingsbridge Armory in the Bronx into a shopping center. Emboldening critics is the sense that Mr. Bloomberg's influence has waned since his narrow victory in last fall's mayoral race.
 ''I think people are really getting a foul smell from what's been going on,'' said Michael Rikon, a lawyer who represents business owners in the Willets Point section of Queens, where the city intends to condemn property to make way for a large redevelopment project. 
 The appellate division ruling in the Columbia case seemed all the more stunning because in November, the state's highest court, the Court of Appeals, had upheld the exercise of eminent domain for the Atlantic Yards development by Forest City Ratner in Brooklyn. (Forest City was The New York Times Company's partner in the development of its headquarters building on land on Eighth Avenue that was acquired by the state through eminent domain.) 
 The Empire State Development Corporation, the state's development arm, can force the sale of property either for a civic purpose or to eradicate blight. In its unusually vitriolic opinion, the court in the Columbia case said that as ''a private elite institution'' the university could not claim there was a civic purpose to its expansion. 
 That finding mystified supporters of the Columbia project. ''Having great research universities is probably the single most important characteristic of a city that will succeed in the 21st-century world economy,'' Ms. Wylde said. At the Harlem hearing, a Columbia executive vice president, Maxine Griffith, said the holdout properties were needed because the 16 new buildings would be connected underground. ''If the basement can't be connected, I don't see how we can proceed,'' she said.
 The ruling also labeled the blight designation obtained by the state agency ''mere sophistry'' that was concocted years after Columbia developed its plans. The court chastised the state agency for commissioning its study of neighborhood conditions from the same consultant, Allee, King, Rosen & Fleming, known as AKRF, that Columbia had hired to help plan the project and prepare the environmental impact statement.
 State Senator Bill Perkins, a Harlem Democrat whose district includes the neighborhood where Columbia is seeking to build its new campus, peppered Empire State officials at the hearing with questions about their reliance on AKRF, which has played a prominent role in most of the city's major development projects. Accusing the consultants of having a ''particular agenda in mind,'' Mr. Perkins said that ''it just doesn't look good.''
 Defending the agency's choice, Anita Laremont, the development corporation's general counsel, said: ''Our judgment is that AKRF is the most qualified to do this work.'' She said Empire State would appeal the court ruling but provided no details.
 Lee Silberstein, a spokesman for AKRF, said in a statement: ''For more than 25 years, AKRF has built its reputation through the objective gathering and analysis of data. Any suggestion that the firm -- widely recognized as a trusted industry leader -- would compromise the quality of its work is incorrect.'' 
 Details about AKRF's role in Columbia's expansion plans became known because Mr. Siegel, the lawyer for the company fighting Columbia, used the state's Freedom of Information Law to get 8,000 pages of documents. (The court said Empire State had ''unconstitutionally'' closed the record in the case before Mr. Siegel received all the documents he had asked for.) He also produced a 500-page report to show that the neighborhood was not blighted.
 Mr. Siegel said New York was the only state that did not permit people resisting condemnation to be heard at the trial-court level, where there would be an opportunity for discovery and cross-examination of witnesses. 
 A provision to require trial-level review could be part of new legislation being drafted by Mr. Perkins, said Amy Lavine, a staff attorney with Albany Law School's Government Law Center, who is advising the state senator. At the top of her list is substituting a specific definition of blight for the current standard of ''substandard and insanitary.'' 
 One model might be Pennsylvania's law from 2006, which permits a blight finding only when a substantial number of properties meet certain conditions like being ''unfit for public habitation'' or having been tax delinquent for two years. ''It's about making sure there are objective standards relating to public health and safety,'' Ms. Lavine said. 
 Ms. Lavine said she also supported lengthening the 30-day time limit for mounting a condemnation challenge.
 Senator Perkins, who quoted the conservative columnist George Will with approval at the public hearing, said he expected to build a bipartisan coalition to improve the condemnation process. ''Eminent domain is like a gun to people's head,'' he said.
 Lisa Bova-Hiatt, a deputy chief at the New York City Law Department, said the city would argue in an amicus brief that Columbia's new campus meets the definition of a civic purpose even though the university is private. But Ms. Bova-Hiatt said the city would not oppose ''thoughtful change'' in the eminent domain laws.
 ''What you don't want to happen,'' she said, ''is for the hysteria of the moment to force ill-considered action.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Norman Siegel, top, said eminent domain is ''the civil rights issue of the 21st century.'' Kathryn S. Wylde, chief of the Partnership for New York City, believes Columbia's growth is crucial to the city's future. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMINENT DOMAIN (91%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); APPEALS (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); LAND USE PLANNING (77%); RETAILERS (73%); CITY LIFE (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); MAYORS (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (66%); SELF STORAGE (51%)

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES (84%); NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



550 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: A Plea for the Stricken in Haiti

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I was part of a group of students from the University of Miami who were in Haiti during this terrible tragedy, helping to establish community centers for youths in the slum of Cite Soleil in Port-au-Prince.
 We were in downtown Port-au-Prince when the earthquake struck. Fortunately, we were safe inside a car and did not get hit by any buildings. I have never seen such destruction and chaos. There were people crying and running, and it was heartbreaking to hear the voices of trapped people pleading for help. At the same time, it was inspiring to see how the Haitian people helped one another. 
 After the earthquake, we had to walk several miles to reach higher ground for safety. Many people would stop us and ask if we could help them find some of their loved ones, but with so much chaos it was almost impossible. 
 The majority of Haitians we have worked to help in Cite Soleil are unaccounted for. More attention needs to be paid to the suffering of those in marginalized communities like Martissant and Cite Soleil where aid has been slow to arrive and most of the people trapped will probably die. 
 Kristina Rosales Miami, Jan. 19, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''3 Presidents Unite in Campaign to Raise Money for Earthquake Recovery in Haiti'' (news article, Jan. 17):
 It is fantastic to know that two former presidents, Bill Clinton and George W. Bush, are uniting with President Obama in the United States' effort to help relieve the devastated country of Haiti. 
 Mr. Clinton, Mr. Bush and President Obama have found a cause that has united them in their goals. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Bush both have powerful connections with people who will be able to help them with the United States' effort to support Haiti; this is exactly what the people of the United States need to see.
 Despite the fact that these three men have differences, they can still come under a single banner and work toward the greater good. We should be able to follow their example; let us set our differences aside and work toward the betterment of society and help those who are truly in need.
 Uriel Rafael Los Angeles, Jan. 17, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''A Helping Hand for Haiti,'' by Bill Clinton and George W. Bush (Op-Ed, Jan. 17):
 Both in your paper and on TV Sunday morning the two former presidents asked for donations to help Haiti. They mentioned building a modern economy there, creating jobs and confronting AIDS and yet were silent about the main problems, poverty and overpopulation.
 After Katrina, the poor homeless of New Orleans were airlifted throughout the United States to begin new lives. Many Haitians had tried to make new lives in the United States and until the other day were deported back to poverty and hopelessness. 
 The planes that fly in with aid could fly out with refugees, but the poor, tired and hungry homeless Haitians are left behind. If an earthquake toppled Toronto, we would welcome our Canadian neighbors, wouldn't we?
 Jean Kathleen Ranallo Englewood, Fla., Jan. 17, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Boon for Red Cross via Texting'' (front page, Jan. 19):
 Could not the banks show that they share the priorities of everyday Americans -- and a true sense of wanting to show appreciation for what their government has done to save them -- by donating an amount equivalent to even 10 percent of this year's bonuses to Haitian relief? 
 A wire transfer to the Red Cross would be their version of texting to 90999.
 Alison Jones Union, Conn., Jan. 19, 2010
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Looting Flares Where Order Breaks Down'' (front page, Jan. 17):
 The action of securing essential food and water during the life-and-death chaos of a natural disaster is not ''looting''; it is human survival. Finding a bag of rice in a collapsed building is reason for celebration, not condemnation. 
 Please use caution when describing these acts of basic human determination for survival and maybe even a moment of hope.
 Barbara Goldfeder Nahcotta, Wash., Jan. 17, 2010
 To the Editor:
 As a cultural anthropologist with experience in Haiti, I disagree with David Brooks's analysis of why Haiti has experienced so much devastation from last week's earthquake (''The Underlying Tragedy,'' column, Jan. 15). Mr. Brooks blames Haiti's culture.
 Students of Haiti deeply admire the industriousness, courage, generosity, intelligence, resilience and creativity that characterize Haiti's poor majority and the vibrant culture maintained under the most difficult conditions. 
 The primary responsibility for Haiti's poverty lies not with its people, but with the actions of foreign powers. A few examples: American support of Haiti's dictators; American undermining of popular, democratically elected Haitian leaders; American blocking of international loans (2001-04) for education, clean water, health care and road improvements; American dumping of heavily subsidized rice on Haiti's markets, driving small Haitian rice farmers out of business; and American insistence that most international loans go through private, nongovernmental organizations.
 Mr. Brooks's thesis could inhibit donations that are much needed during Haiti's current crisis.
 Leslie Fleming Berkeley, Calif., Jan. 16, 2010
 The writer is an anthropology instructor at Merritt College in Oakland, Calif.
 To the Editor:
 David Brooks should be congratulated for stating that greater attention to poverty reduction is needed. He is also correct that systemic poverty reduction will result neither through small, nongovernmental efforts alone nor neoliberal macroeconomic policies. There is a growing body of development research now focusing on the importance of cultural change.
 But I take issue with his call for more paternalism. United States foreign policy in Haiti has been nothing if not paternalistic. Over the last 20 years the United States has ousted, reinstated, then ousted again Haiti's leadership. We have consistently worked with international financial institutions to impose neoliberal governance -- leaving the Haitian government impotent before the earthquake, and largely invisible since.
 Paternalist cultural development policy has led to some of our most shameful legacies (like Indian boarding schools). Cultural change must be locally led to have positive effects -- not based on self-righteous proclamations. 
 Stephen Gasteyer East Lansing, Mich., Jan. 18, 2010
 The writer is an assistant professor of sociology at Michigan State University.
 To the Editor:
 Having served as the United Nations Population Fund's country director in Haiti and the Dominican Republic from 1992 to 1997, I agree with David Brooks that ''change is hard.''
 The hope for the poorest Haitians, however, is that true change will finally happen in donors' policies. China and the Dominican Republic proved that poverty can be reduced through free public primary education for all children.
 International, regional and bilateral donors and development banks have catered to Haiti's predatory political, economic, religious and academic elites and their profitable private school business. The donors must leverage their influence now to obtain free education for the poorest children of the Western Hemisphere.
 The rebuilding of Haiti needs to start with the construction of public primary schools so that all Haitian children can finally, like their neighbors in the Dominican Republic, have access to free education and start Haiti on its journey to sustainable development.
 Heidi Swindells Sag Harbor, N.Y., Jan. 17, 2010

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM GOUGH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EARTHQUAKES (90%); SLUM DWELLINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (66%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (86%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



551 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 972 words

HEADLINE: Chilean Vote Is Another Sign of Latin America's Fading Political Polarization

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO

DATELINE: SANTIAGO, Chile 

 BODY:
The election of a billionaire from a right-wing party as Chile's president on Sunday appears to be less a signal of a regional move to the right than that of a pragmatic convergence of left and right agendas.
 The winner, Sebastian Pinera, 60, joins Alan Garcia of Peru, Felipe Calderon of Mexico and Alvaro Uribe of Colombia as clearly right-wing leaders presiding over major Latin American countries, where left-wing candidates with socialist agendas have held more sway in recent years. 
 In the campaign, Mr. Pinera, a Harvard-trained economist and former senator, promised to carry on many of the social programs put in place by President Michelle Bachelet, who was leaving with approval ratings hovering around 75 percent. Mr. Pinera's victory brought to an end the 20-year hold on power of the center-left Concertacion coalition, which steered Chile out of its long and bloody dictatorship.
 ''In the institutionalized electoral democracies in Latin America over the last decade there has been a lessening of the ideological polarization between left and right and a convergence on macroeconomic stability and a framework of social justice,'' said Cynthia J. Arnson, the director of the Latin American program at the Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington.
 Candidates of the left still do well. In recent years left-wing candidates have won elections throughout Latin America. Voters in Paraguay elected a former priest with a socialist agenda, and Uruguay elected a former Marxist-inspired guerrilla to succeed a successful Socialist doctor as president. In 2007, Argentines voted for the wife of their previous president. She has continued his socialist, populist policies.
 But in Brazil, the popular Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who came into the presidency as a self-described leftist, leaves office after this year having proved to be more of a center-left pragmatist. Neither of the probable finalists in the election -- Dilma Rousseff, Mr. da Silva's chief of staff, and the centrist Sao Paulo governor, Jose Serra -- is expected to take the country right and jettison popular social programs that have helped relieve extreme poverty, analysts said. 
 ''Latin America is not swinging in one direction or another; it is swinging in many different directions at the same time,'' said Michael Shifter, the vice president of the Inter-American Dialogue, a policy research group in Washington. 
 A few years ago a radical shift seemed under way. Starting with the election of Hugo Chavez, a former coup plotter, in 1998, and continuing with the election of Evo Morales in Bolivia and Rafael Correa in Ecuador, the leaders of the so-called Bolivarian countries railed against the economic neo-liberalism espoused by Washington, nationalized their industries and more clearly positioned themselves as an alternative pole of political and economic ideology, analysts said.
 ''But even in these countries the outcomes reflected less the embrace of leftism than a desire for a new kind of politics,'' Mr. Shifter said. 
 The leftist leaders elected since 2006 actually owe their support to centrist, not leftist, voters, analysts said. ''The political center is the only part of the electorate that has increased in Latin America in the last decade,'' said Marta Lagos, the director of Latinobarometro, an opinion survey of the region. The number increased to 42 percent from 29 percent between 1996 and 2009, she said.
 While the right triumphed on Sunday in Chile, Mr. Pinera takes over in March with a relatively weak mandate. His center-right coalition will not have a majority in Congress, and he was elected with 29.9 percent of the total number of eligible voters over 18 years old, an even lower total than Ms. Bachelet's previous historic low percentage in 2006, Ms. Lagos said. Among those who voted, Mr. Pinera won with 52 percent of the vote to the 48 percent of his opponent, a former president, Eduardo Frei. 
 That underscores the deep antipathy that many Chileans had toward this year's election and their cry for political renewal. Some voted for Mr. Frei in the end out of fear of the right's ties to the dictatorship-era government of Gen. Augusto Pinochet.
 Chileans were clearly fatigued with 20 years of the Concertacion, and, Ms. Arnson said, were frustrated with the Concertacion's ''failure to open up and allow a younger generation of political leaders to play a more prominent role.'' 
 Despite Ms. Bachelet's popularity, she was never viewed to be the head of the coalition, which was effectively leaderless this past year, Ms. Lagos said.
 As it has in the past, the Concertacion restricted participation in its primary election last year, leading 36-year-old Marco Enriquez-Ominami, a Socialist, to break off and run as an independent. He won 20 percent of the vote in the first round, and he forced the Bachelet government to agree this month to carry out some of his proposals to help Mr. Frei's chances.
 Mr. Pinera has taken pains since Sunday to be respectful to the Concertacion, which is credited for maintaining macroeconomic stability while bringing down poverty in Chile, one of the most economically unequal countries in the hemisphere. Last month the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a group of the world's most developed democracies with market-based economies, invited Chile to join.
 On Monday, Mr. Pinera said, ''In Latin America today we are experiencing a true rebirth and boom in democracy,'' and he reiterated that he would not ''start from zero,'' saying he would build his cabinet from ''independents'' and possibly members of the Concertacion, as well as from his own coalition.
 He had breakfast with Ms. Bachelet at his mansion on Monday morning. She invited him to go with her on a presidential trip to Cancun, Mexico, next month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Michelle Bachelet of Chile and President-elect Sebastian Pinera met Monday at Mr. Pinera's home in Santiago. She invited him to accompany her on a trip to Mexico next month. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CLAUDIO REYES/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); COUPS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS (55%)

PERSON: DILMA ROUSSEFF (79%); MICHELLE BACHELET (73%); FELIPE CALDERON (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); HUGO CHAVEZ (58%); ALVARO URIBE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTIAGO, CHILE (91%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (57%) CHILE (96%); LATIN AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); MEXICO (93%); BRAZIL (92%); ECUADOR (79%); BOLIVIA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); URUGUAY (79%); PARAGUAY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



552 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: School Adds Weeding to Reading and Writing

BYLINE: By KIM SEVERSON

 BODY:
THOSE who believe trends start on the West Coast and are perfected on the East Coast might add to their argument a garden planned for an elementary school in Brooklyn.
 This summer, supporters will tear up a quarter-acre of asphalt parking lot behind P.S. 216 in the Gravesend neighborhood and start building the first New York affiliate of the Edible Schoolyard program, developed by the restaurateur Alice Waters of Chez Panisse.
 It's a $1.6-million architect's dream. A new building, powered by the sun, will hold a kitchen classroom with communal tables where children can share meals they make from food they grow in the garden. 
 Designers from the Work Architecture Company have incorporated a chicken coop, a composting system, an outdoor pizza oven and a cistern to collect rainwater. A movable greenhouse will be rolled out each fall.
 Teachers will use the garden to give students -- 460 children from prekindergarten to the fifth grade -- lessons in subjects like art, math, history and science. Administrators hope the school will eventually become a center for the study of the environment and agriculture.
 The P.S. 216 project will be not only the most expensive of the six Edible Schoolyards but also the only one to operate year round. The original, built 15 years ago at a middle school in Berkeley, Calif., cost about $75,000, Ms. Waters recalled. 
 She will attend a series of invitation-only events in New York next month to raise money for the garden and for the Chez Panisse Foundation. Ms. Waters, a former Montessori teacher, set up the foundation to improve food and education in public schools. 
 Leading the fund-raising charge will be John Lyons, a movie producer and foundation board member. 
 Mr. Lyons, the son of a high school librarian, began volunteering at P.S. 216 five years ago and has made the garden his personal project. Even though private money will pay for construction and the estimated $400,000 a year in staffing costs, some might wonder if a multimillion-dollar garden is what a public elementary school in a large, cash-short district really needs.
 The most-recent critic of the Edible Schoolyard program is Caitlin Flanagan, whose lengthy essay ''Cultivating Failure,'' published in The Atlantic, attacks Ms. Waters and garden-based education.
 Ms. Flanagan argued that school gardens are a vast pedagogic experiment based on a set of untested assumptions. 
 ''I have yet to find a single study,'' she wrote, ''that suggests classroom gardens help students meet the state standards for English and math'' in California, where she lives. 
 She found it especially distasteful that the children of migrant farmworkers might be sent to the fields in what she regards as an unhealthy mix of public schooling and social engineering.
 On blogs, in e-mails and over dinner tables last week, the food intelligentsia quickly mounted a fierce defense. 
 Anyone who has come home from school carrying a sprouting bean in a foam cup can attest that growing plants has long been used as a teaching tool. The Edible Schoolyard in Berkeley pushed the concept further, and became a model for thousands of schools that now use gardens to teach academics. Still, little research exists on the efficacy of a garden-based curriculum, said W. Steven Barnett , a professor of education, economics and policy at Rutgers. 
 ''We get a lot of this either-or in education,'' Mr. Barnett said. ''It's gardening or it's Shakespeare. Those are mostly false choices. You have to think about it as integrated into the child's learning experience, whether it's about science or nature or health or where food comes from.''
 At P.S. 216, Principal Celia Kaplinsky dismisses criticism like Ms. Flanagan's with a patient smile. She started her career teaching in Harlem more than 30 years ago and has three master's degrees. 
 ''Everything we do is interdisciplinary, and this will be no different,'' she said. ''It's just a new dimension of teaching. It's not an extra.''
 The curriculum will be designed with help from Teachers College at Columbia and will meet New York State standards, she said.
 The garden is also intended to build community. Most of the students at the school speak a language other than English at home. Ms. Kaplinsky imagines Russian, Pakistani Chinese and Mexican families sharing recipes and gardening tips.
 The school's parents association has thrown itself behind the project, even creating a mock-up of a garden just inside the school entrance to build interest. 
 As to the critics who think sending children to the garden to work the dirt is an ill-conceived form of forced labor? 
 ''The only thing we force them to do is learn,'' Ms. Kaplinsky said. ''And we do it so it doesn't hurt.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHICKENS IN GRAVESEND: John Lyons, above left, is helping to raise money for an Edible Schoolyard at P.S. 216 in Brooklyn. Celia Kaplinsky is the school's principal. Below, a rendering of what the building is to look like. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NATALIE BEHRING FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 BELOW, WORK ARCHITECTURE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TRENDS (89%); FUNDRAISING (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL LIBRARIES (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); FARM LABOR (73%); MONTESSORI SCHOOLS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%); MIGRANT WORKERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); WEST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



553 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: Budget Ballot Initiatives Debated in Colorado

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

DATELINE: DENVER 

 BODY:
Overturning Colorado's Taxpayer Bill of Rights, a strict constitutional budget-collar known by its acronym, Tabor, is not on either major party's official to-do list for the 2010 election cycle.
 Unofficially, though, the law and its effects are being discussed just about everywhere.
 ''Tabor is always lurking in the shadows,'' said Terrance Carroll, a Democrat and the speaker of the State House of Representatives. ''Right now, it's lurking near the top.'' 
 For example, when Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. gave his final state-of-the-state speech on Thursday, he did not mention Tabor by name.
 Instead Mr. Ritter, a Democrat who said this month that he would not seek a second term this fall, ripped into three initiatives on the November ballot that he called ''backward-thinking,'' including two that would make Tabor even more strict. 
 One proposal would amend the Constitution to restrict state borrowing severely.
 Another would cut vehicle registration fees to $1 for older cars and $2 for newer cars. That would more than roll back last year's increase in fees that averaged about $32 per vehicle. Tabor supporters said the increase amounted to an end-run around the law, which requires tax increases to be put up for a statewide vote. 
 The same proposal would also cut the state income tax rate to 3.5 percent from 4.63 percent. 
 The combined results would blow a $1.7 billion hole, or more, in a state budget that is already facing a $1.3 billion shortfall, according to an analysis by the Bell Policy Center, a research and advocacy group in Colorado that has opposed Tabor-driven spending cuts in social programs.
 ''The cynical game the proponents are playing with our future would quite literally destroy the safety net and wipe out any hope of creating a better future for our children,'' said Mr. Ritter, who has said he decided not to run again so he can spend more time with his family and focus on the state's battered budget with fewer political distractions.
 Some Republicans say that if the Democrats heed Mr. Ritter's advice, they will dance too close to the fire of Tabor's widespread popularity and get burned -- no matter how the language is parsed. 
 The mood of the voters, they say, has been darkened by recession and by fiscal decision-making at the Capitol in Denver under the Democrats. What the voters want, according to the Republicans, are more fiscal controls and cuts -- and support for Tabor -- than ever.
 ''They're trying to plant that seed of fear that these initiatives will lead to the utter meltdown of our state, and that's nonsense,'' said Dan Maes, a businessman who is seeking the Republican nomination for governor. ''These initiatives reflect the spirit of Colorado right now.''
 As for the Tabor initiatives themselves, Mr. Maes said he was uncertain. He said he supported the third proposal, a restriction on how and when property taxes could be increased, but would decide between now and November on the other two.
 Mayor John W. Hickenlooper of Denver, a Democrat who last week said he would seek his party's nomination to replace Mr. Ritter, agreed that Tabor was popular and here to stay. Mr. Hickenlooper said he opposed two of the measures and was still looking into the third.
 ''I don't think we should repeal it -- people don't want that,'' Mr. Hickenlooper said of Tabor. But the initiatives for the most part are not about long-term policy or politics, he said, but are just plain ''bad government.''
 Another Republican candidate for governor, Scott McInnis, indicated he was sympathetic to the frustrations that led to the voter initiatives.
 ''Tabor, and the way in which the Democrats have disrespected the taxpayers, will be a huge issue,'' said Mr. McInnis's spokesman, Sean Duffy, referring to the campaign for governor. As for proposals to fix or toughen Tabor, ''they're not terribly well drafted and raise a lot of concerns,'' Mr. Duffy said.
 Asked whether Mr. McInnis might actively campaign against the Tabor measures, Mr. Duffy said he did not know.
 An important backdrop to the governor's race and the debate over Tabor is that Republican leaders in the State Senate and House have said they agree with Mr. Ritter that the proposals might do more harm than good. 
 ''I don't support any of the initiatives,'' said the Republican minority leader in the State Senate, Josh Penry. ''But I also know they weren't initiated in a vacuum.'' 
 Mr. Penry said the Democrats in control of the legislature and the governor's office have ''made a mockery of Tabor,'' through fee increases like the one on motor vehicles.
 That said, he added, the three proposed initiatives still do not make sense.
 ''Those of us who support Tabor want to make clear that those initiatives are just bad public policy,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Bill Ritter Jr. called three initiatives ''backward-thinking.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID ZALUBOWSKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REFERENDUMS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BALLOTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); GOVERNORS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); INCOME TAX (73%); VEHICLE LICENSING & REGISTRATION (67%)

PERSON: BILL RITTER (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



554 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Create Panel to Study Deficit

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES; Carl Hulse contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama plans to create a bipartisan commission to make recommendations to Congress on ways to reduce the federal budget deficit under an agreement reached Tuesday night at the White House. 
 The agreement is tentative, pending consultations between Congressional leaders and some House and Senate lawmakers. Some details remained in flux. 
 But according to people familiar with the deal, in principle it commits Democrats to work with Republicans to do what they have not been able to do for a decade through the regular process: compromise on spending cuts and tax increases to produce reductions in annual deficits that, under George W. Bush and now Mr. Obama, have reached the highest levels since World War II. 
 In the short run, such a commission would buy time for the White House and Congress, putting off decisions until after this year's midterm elections while the commission deliberates. Democrats and most economists argue that this year is not the right time to make big cuts in spending or raise taxes while the economy remains at risk of falling back into recession. 
 But ultimately the White House and Congress will be responsible for the commission's outcome. They either must act on the recommendations, likely to be politically charged, or -- if the commission deadlocks, as similar budget panels have -- be held accountable for that outcome.
 The Democrats' agreement, brokered in recent days by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. with Congressional leaders and senior White House officials, reflects widespread recognition that deficits exceeding $1 trillion are a political as well as an economic threat. Polls show increasing concern among Americans about the debt, and increasing assignment of blame to the Obama administration's agenda.
 The deal calls for an 18-member panel, with a dozen members named by Congressional leaders and six by the president, several Democrats said. The presidential appointees could be administration officials or outside experts, but it remained unclear whether all 12 Congressional appointees would be incumbent lawmakers or if some outsiders might be included.
 For the commission's recommendations to go to Congress for a vote, 14 of its 18 members would have to agree to them.
 Mr. Obama would create the commission by an executive order if, as expected, the Senate rejects a separate proposal from Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota, the Democratic chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, and Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire, the budget committee's senior Republican, to establish a commission by law.
 The Senate vote on the version could occur on Thursday. Mr. Conrad was a participant in the White House talks.
 Besides the budget commission, the deal anticipates that Congress will approve an increase this week in the nation's debt limit, now at $12.4 trillion, so the government can continue borrowing through this year to cover its operations.
 Also, the Senate will agree to vote, and probably pass, a House bill that writes into law a pay-as-you-go requirement. It would mandate that new spending and tax cuts be offset by spending cuts or tax increases to avoid adding to deficits.
 Mr. Conrad had blocked the so-called pay-go measure in the Senate, objecting to provisions in the House version that exempted several popular but costly tax cuts and some Medicare spending. Those policies, if extended in coming years as has been routine, would together add about $3 trillion to the debt over the next decade. 
 The exempted policies include the Bush tax cuts for households making less than $250,000, estate tax changes and annual adjustments to the alternative minimum tax so middle-class taxpayers are not affected. They also include periodic increases in Medicare reimbursements for doctors. 
 To satisfy Mr. Conrad and hold down the costs of extending those policies without offsetting savings, the administration and Congressional officials agreed that the exemptions for the alternative minimum tax and estate taxes would be limited to two years, and doctors' payments would be exempted for five years. The Bush tax cuts for all but the richest taxpayers would continue to add to annual deficits. 
 Don Stewart, a spokesman for the Senate Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said Tuesday night that the senator did not know enough about the proposed bipartisan commission to comment. But Mr. Stewart said the proposal was a ''very odd way to do things.'' 
 However, David Walker, the president of the Peter G. Peterson Foundation, which is dedicated to deep deficit reductions, said in a statement, ''The announcement of an agreement to create a presidentially appointed fiscal commission that will report to the Congress and be assured a vote on its recommendations is a major step toward putting our nation's financial house in order while protecting our social safety net programs.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX INCREASES (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (66%); WORLD WAR II (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); JUDD GREGG (59%); KENT CONRAD (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



555 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Is China An Enron? (Part 2)

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

 BODY:
Last week, I wrote a column suggesting that while some overheated Chinese markets, like real estate, may offer shorting opportunities, I'd be wary of the argument that China's economy today is just one big short-inviting bubble, a la Dubai. Your honor, I'd like to now revise and amend my remarks.
 There is one short position, one big short, that does intrigue me in China. I am not sure who makes a market in this area, but here goes: If China forces out Google, I'd like to short the Chinese Communist Party. 
 Here is why: Chinese companies today are both more backward and more advanced than most Americans realize. There are actually two Chinese economies today. There is the Communist Party and its affiliates; let's call them Command China. These are the very traditional state-owned enterprises.
 Alongside them, there is a second China, largely concentrated in coastal cities like Shanghai and Hong Kong. This is a highly entrepreneurial sector that has developed sophisticated techniques to generate and participate in diverse, high-value flows of business knowledge. I call that Network China.
 What is so important about knowledge flows? This, for me, is the key to understanding the Google story and why one might decide to short the Chinese Communist Party. 
 John Hagel, the noted business writer and management consultant argues in his recently released ''Shift Index'' that we're in the midst of ''The Big Shift.'' We are shifting from a world where the key source of strategic advantage was in protecting and extracting value from a given set of knowledge stocks -- the sum total of what we know at any point in time, which is now depreciating at an accelerating pace -- into a world in which the focus of value creation is effective participation in knowledge flows, which are constantly being renewed.
 ''Finding ways to connect with people and institutions possessing new knowledge becomes increasingly important,'' says Hagel. ''Since there are far more smart people outside any one organization than inside.'' And in today's flat world, you can now access them all. Therefore, the more your company or country can connect with relevant and diverse sources to create new knowledge, the more it will thrive. And if you don't, others will.
 I would argue that Command China, in its efforts to suppress, curtail and channel knowledge flows into politically acceptable domains that will indefinitely sustain the control of the Communist Party -- i.e., censoring Google -- is increasingly at odds with Network China, which is thriving by participating in global knowledge flows. That is what the war over Google is really all about: It is a proxy and a symbol for whether the Chinese will be able to freely search and connect wherever their imaginations and creative impulses take them, which is critical for the future of Network China. 
 Have no doubt, China has some world-class networked companies that are ''in the flow'' already, such as Li & Fung, a $14 billion apparel company with a network of 10,000 specialized business partners, and Dachangjiang, the motorcycle maker. The flows occurring on a daily basis in the networks of these Chinese companies to do design, product innovation and supply-chain management and to pool the best global expertise ''are unlike anything that U.S. companies have figured out,'' said Hagel.
 The orchestrators of these networks, he added, ''encourage participants to gather among themselves in an ad hoc fashion to address unexpected performance challenges, learn from each other and pull in outsiders as they need them. More traditional companies driven by a desire to protect and exploit knowledge stocks carefully limit the partners they deal with.''
 Command China has thrived up to now largely by perfecting the 20th-century model for low-cost manufacturing based on mining knowledge stocks and limiting flows. But China will only thrive in the 21st century -- and the Communist Party survive in power -- if it can get more of its firms to shift to the 21st-century model of Network China. That means enabling more and more Chinese people, universities and companies to participate in the world's great knowledge flows, especially ones that connect well beyond the established industry and market boundaries. 
 Alas, though, China seems to be betting that it can straddle three impulses -- control flows for political reasons, maintain 20th-century Command Chinese factories for employment reasons and expand 21st-century Network China for growth reasons. But the contradictions within this straddle could undermine all three. The 20th-century Command model will be under pressure. The future belongs to those who promote richer and ever more diverse knowledge flows and develop the institutions and practices required to harness them. 
 So there you have it: Command China, which wants to censor Google, is working against Network China, which thrives on Google. For now, it looks as if Command China will have its way. If that turns out to be the case, then I'd like to short the Communist Party. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (69%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (69%); CENSORSHIP (60%)

COMPANY: EVERGRANDE REAL ESTATE GROUP LTD (91%); GOOGLE INC (84%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (58%)

TICKER: 3333 (HKSE) (91%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236116 NEW MULTIFAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (91%); SIC1522 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS OTHER THAN SINGLE-FAMILY (91%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (91%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



556 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: A.I.G. Unit May Be Sold To MetLife

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH and MICHAEL J. de la MERCED; Andrew Ross Sorkin contributed reporting.

 BODY:
MetLife, where Robert H. Benmosche made his mark as an insurance executive, has emerged as the lead bidder for a major subsidiary of the American International Group, where Mr. Benmosche is now chief executive. 
 The deal, if it goes through, would help pay off $9 billion of A.I.G.'s rescue debt to the government, and possibly more, depending on the price. Attempts to sell the unit, considered one of the insurer's most valuable properties, have faltered for more than a year because of what A.I.G. called fire-sale bids during the financial crisis. 
 Under the terms now being discussed, MetLife would pay about $14 billion to $15 billion for the A.I.G. subsidiary, which has an attractive foothold in fast-growing Asian markets, according to people briefed on the negotiations. That price suggests a handsome premium, although insurance company values can be difficult to judge, and prices have gyrated in the last two years. 
 Separately, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board called on Tuesday for a federal audit of the central bank's role in A.I.G.'s bailout, hoping to quell persistent questions and criticism. 
 When he took over A.I.G. last August, Mr. Benmosche signed a commitment not to exert undue influence on transactions with his former company. At the time he joined A.I.G. he held 500,000 shares of MetLife stock, with options for 2.1 million more shares. His A.I.G. compensation package is intended to reward him if the company's stock price rises consistently over a period of time. Its stock rose slightly on Tuesday, on word of the possible asset sale.
 An A.I.G. spokesman, Mark Herr, said the company would not comment on the talks.
 A MetLife spokesman, John Calagna, said it was the company's policy not to comment on what he called ''rumors or speculation.'' He added, however, ''MetLife does not need to enter into any M.& A. transaction to meet its business objectives, and, as we've previously stated, our philosophy regarding M.& A. activity is that any deal MetLife pursues would be strategically important and financially attractive to our shareholders.'' 
 MetLife is one of just a small number of insurance companies with the resources for an acquisition of this scale. It took advantage of a special federal program to tap the capital markets in 2008, but did not borrow from the Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program, and said it passed the government's ''capital assessment exercise,'' known as the stress test. 
 A.I.G. has already arranged to give the Federal Reserve Bank of New York the first $9 billion it receives from any sale of the subsidiary, the American Life Insurance Company, known as Alico. Those funds are to redeem $9 billion worth of preferred stock now held in a special-purpose vehicle for the New York Fed. 
 Any additional proceeds from the sale of Alico would go toward paying down part of a separate, $35 billion credit facility from the New York Fed -- the remains of its original bailout loan to A.I.G. in September 2008. 
 The New York Fed would still have exposure to A.I.G. through two funds, Maiden Lane II and Maiden Lane III, which it created to help the insurer unwind about $50 billion worth of soured investments. And it has been promised the first $16 billion from the sale of another of A.I.G.'s big Asian life insurance companies, called A.I.A., on the Hong Kong stock exchange later this year. 
 Even now, any deal between A.I.G. and MetLife is probably at least two to three weeks away, and could still fall through, according to the people briefed on the negotiations. MetLife has made offers for Alico before and been rebuffed. 
 People who follow the insurance industry said that on the basis of numbers alone, MetLife's offer was strong. American life insurance companies typically change hands at about 1.4 times their book value, according to Douglas J. Elliott, a fellow at the Brookings Institution and a former investment banker who specialized in insurance companies. 
 Alico's book value at the end of 2008 was a little less than $4 billion, according to a regulatory filing with its home state, Delaware. That suggests a bidder might try to get away with offering just $5.6 billion.
 Mr. Elliott called the $14 billion to $15 billion range ''a very high multiple.'' 
 ''But these are international operations, and they have footholds in potentially some quite fast-growing parts of the world,'' he said. ''The emerging markets, like China and India, are seen as potentially huge, profitable markets.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); LIFE INSURANCE (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); PREFERRED STOCK (65%)

COMPANY: METLIFE INC (95%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); AMERICAN LIFE INSURANCE CO (80%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%)

TICKER: MET (NYSE) (95%); AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (95%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (95%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (95%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (95%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (60%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



557 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 859 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 DAY AFTER ASSAULT ON KABUL, 
 Some Question Motives
 The day after seven insurgents stormed a shopping center in downtown Kabul and immobilized the city, the shopkeepers were stoic about the assault and said they lacked faith in the government's ability to stop such attacks. They were most concerned with the question of how the insurgents managed to get into an area with so much security. PAGE A5
 WORRIES IN INDONESIA 
 The arrests of four women for ''sexy dancing'' during a New Year's Eve party in Bandung, a cultural hub in Indonesia, have raised worries that they may be the prelude to the imposition of wider restrictions in that city and elsewhere in the country. PAGE A6
 OBSTACLES FOR ISRAELI BID
 Israel is in the final stages of accession to the exclusive club of advanced countries, the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. But its secretive weapons trade, patent-bending drug industry and occupation of Arab lands are raising questions. PAGE A7
 National
 EVIDENCE OF VORACIOUS CARP FOUND IN GREAT LAKES
 Genetic material from the Asian carp, a voracious, invasive species of fish long feared to be nearing the Great Lakes, has been identified for the first time at a harbor within Lake Michigan, near the Illinois-Indiana border, ecologists and federal officials said. PAGE A11
 TEACHER'S CASE DIVIDES TOWN
 The town of Mount Vernon, Ohio, is divided over the fate of John Freshwater, an eighth-grade public school science teacher, who was set to be fired after he was accused of burning a cross onto the arms of students and teaching creationism. PAGE A11 
 New York
 INDICTMENT IS UPHELD 
 In Letterman Extortion Case
 A Manhattan judge upheld the indictment of Robert Halderman, an Emmy Award-winning television producer accused of trying to extort $2 million from David Letterman. PAGE A17
 Business
 INFORMANT IN TRADING CASE
 To Be Sentenced
 Mark E. Lenowitz, a former hedge fund manager, has been secretly cooperating with a federal investigation of insider trading on Wall Street in hopes of reducing his jail time. He will learn if his gamble paid off when he is sentenced for his role in a case that was described in 2007 as the largest insider-trading crackdown in 20 years. PAGE B1
 PRESSURE FOR CITI CHIEF
 Citigroup suffered more than most large banks from the financial crisis, and its troubles, analysts say, are far from over. Insiders say morale is low, and some Citigroup investment bankers and traders are threatening to leave for more lucrative jobs elsewhere. Vikram Pandit, the chief executive, is under growing pressure to produce profits -- or risk losing his job. PAGE B1
 TAKING LEAD TO BUY A.I.G.
 MetLife, where Robert Benmosche made his mark as an insurance executive, has emerged as the lead bidder for a major subsidiary of the American International Group, where Mr. Benmosche is now chief executive. PAGE B1
 AIRLINE FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY
 Japan Airlines, once the mighty flagship carrier and Asia's biggest airline, filed for bankruptcy protection, setting the stage for a state-led bailout that could bring sweeping changes to its corner of the global aviation market. PAGE B3
 Sports
 SKATER TRIES TO BALANCE
 Olympic Dreams and Youth
 At age 11, Polina Edmunds is young enough to carry a teddy bear for good luck, but old enough to be a veteran dreamer of an Olympic gold medal in figure skating. But she is candid about the sacrifices required and about her own ambivalence toward the sport's demands. PAGE B11
 STADIUM'S LATEST RENAMING
 Since it opened in 1987, the Miami Dolphins' home has been known as Joe Robbie Stadium, Pro Player Park, Pro Player Stadium, Dolphins Stadium, Dolphin Stadium and Land Shark Stadium before reverting back to Dolphin Stadium two weeks ago. But just in time for the Super Bowl it will host, it was renamed again:Sun Life Stadium. PAGE B12
 Arts
 DETAILING THE HORRORS
 After Atom Bombs' Shock
 The stories of the people who are believed to have survived the atomic bomb dropped on Hiroshima only to wind up in Nagasaki when that bomb fell three days later make up part of Charles Pellegrino's sober and authoritative new book, ''The Last Train From Hiroshima.'' Review by Dwight Garner. Page C1
 ORCHESTRA SETTLES STRIKE
 The musicians of the Cleveland Orchestra and their management settled a strike that did not last long but made clear the tensions raised by difficult economic times across the orchestra world. PAGE C1
 A BIG MAP OF AN OLD WORLD
 A richly detailed, physically imposing map of the known world in the 17th century, by an Italian-born Jesuit priest, Matteo Ricci, and apparently commissioned by the court of Emperor Wanli in 1602, is on display at the Library of Congress through April 10. PAGE C1
 Dining
 THE BALKAN BURGER
 Unites All Factions
 Pljeskavica, a burger as wide as a birthday cake, and sausage-shaped cevapi, are beloved in Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Slovenia and Montenegro. And recently, they have also become popular in Italy, Germany, Chicago and Queens, as many young people from the Balkans have emigrated. PAGE D1
 Op-ed
 MAUREEN DOWD PAGE A21
 THOMAS FRIEDMAN PAGE A21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); FISHES (90%); LAKES (90%); EXTORTION (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INDICTMENTS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); SENTENCING (86%); ARMS TRADE (73%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (73%); CREATIONISM (72%); RELIGION (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (71%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (68%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (66%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (65%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (63%); JUDGES (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (56%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (84%); C (BMV) (84%); 8710 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

PERSON: ROBERT H BENMOSCHE (66%); DAVID LETTERMAN (50%); VIKRAM PANDIT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%); LAKE MICHIGAN (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); GREAT LAKES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) INDONESIA (94%); ISRAEL (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



558 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 968 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Wall Street Down to Size

BYLINE: By DAVID STOCKMAN. 
David Stockman, a director of the Office of Management and Budget under President Ronald Reagan, is working on a book about the financial crisis.

 BODY:
WHILE supply-side catechism insists that lower taxes are a growth tonic, the theory also argues that if you want less of something, tax it more. The economy desperately needs less of our bloated, unproductive and increasingly parasitic banking system. In this respect, the White House appears to have gone over to the supply side with its proposed tax on big banks, as it scores populist points against the banksters, too.
 Not surprisingly, the bankers are already whining, even though the tax would amount to a financial pinprick -- a levy of only 0.15 percent on the debts (other than deposits) of the big financial conglomerates. Their objections are evidence that the administration is on the right track. 
 Make no mistake. The banking system has become an agent of destruction for the gross domestic product and of impoverishment for the middle class. To be sure, it was lured into these unsavory missions by a truly insane monetary policy under which, most recently, the Federal Reserve purchased $1.5 trillion of longer-dated Treasury bonds and housing agency securities in less than a year. It was an unprecedented exercise in market-rigging with printing-press money, and it gave a sharp boost to the price of bonds and other securities held by banks, permitting them to book huge revenues from trading and bookkeeping gains. 
 Meanwhile, by fixing short-term interest rates at near zero, the Fed planted its heavy boot squarely in the face of depositors, as it shrank the banks' cost of production -- their interest expense on depositor funds -- to the vanishing point.
 The resulting ultrasteep yield curve for banks is heralded, by a certain breed of Wall Street tout, as a financial miracle cure. Soon, it is claimed, a prodigious upwelling of profitability will repair bank balance sheets and bury toxic waste from the last bubble's collapse. But will it?
 In supplying the banks with free deposit money (effectively, zero-interest loans), the savers of America are taking a $250 billion annual haircut in lost interest income. And the banks, after reaping this ill-deserved windfall, are pleased to pronounce themselves solvent, ignoring the bad loans still on their books. This kind of Robin Hood redistribution in reverse is not sustainable. It requires permanently flooding world markets with cheap dollars -- a recipe for the next bubble and financial crisis.
 Moreover, rescuing the banks yet again, this time with a steeply sloped yield curve (that is, cheap short-term money and more expensive long-term rates), is not even a proper monetary policy action. It is a vast and capricious reallocation of national income, which would be hooted down in the halls of Congress, were it properly brought to a vote.
 National economic policy has come to this absurd pass because for decades the Fed has juiced the banking system with excessive reserves. With this monetary fuel, the banks manufactured, aggressively at first and then recklessly, a tide of new loans and deposits. When Wall Street's ''heart attack'' struck in September 2008, bank liabilities had reached 100 percent of gross domestic product -- double the ratio of a few decades earlier.
 This was a measurement of the perilous extent to which bad investments, financed by debt, had come to distort the warp and woof of the economy. Behind the worthless loans stands a vast assemblage of redundant housing units, shopping malls, office buildings, warehouses, tanning salons and fast food restaurants. These superfluous fixed assets had, over the past decade, given rise to a hothouse economy of jobs that have now vanished. Obviously, the legions of brokers, developers, appraisers, contractors, tradesmen and decorators who created the bad investments are long gone. But now the waitresses, yoga instructors, gardeners, repairmen, sales clerks, inventory managers, office workers and lift-truck drivers once thought needed to work at these places are disappearing into the unemployment statistics, as well.
 The baleful reality is that the big banks, the freakish offspring of the Fed's easy money, are dangerous institutions, deeply embedded in a bull market culture of entitlement and greed. This is why the Obama tax is welcome: its underlying policy message is that big banking must get smaller because it does too little that is useful, productive or efficient.
 To argue, as some conservatives surely will, that a policy-directed shrinking of big banking is an inappropriate interference in the marketplace is to miss a crucial point: the big Wall Street banks are wards of the state, not private enterprises. During recent quarters, for instance, the preponderant share of Goldman Sachs' revenues came from trading in bonds, currencies and commodities.
 But these profits were not evidence of Mr. Market doing God's work, greasing the wheels of commerce and trade by facilitating productive financial transactions. In fact, they represented the fruits of hyperactive gambling in the Fed's monetary casino -- a place where the inside players obtain their chips at no cost from the Fed-controlled money markets, and are warned well in advance, by obscure wording changes in the Fed's policy statements, about any pending shift in the gambling odds. 
 To be sure, the most direct way to cure the banking system's ills would be to return to a rational monetary policy based on sensible interest rates, an end to frantic monetization of federal debt and a stable exchange value for the dollar. But Ben Bernanke, the Fed chairman, and his posse are not likely to go there, believing as they do that central banking is about micromanaging aggregate demand -- asset bubbles and a flagging dollar be damned. Still, there can be no doubt that taxing big bank liabilities will cause there to be less of them. And that's a start. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL SAHRE AND JONAS BEUCHERT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); INTEREST RATES (86%); TAX LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); YIELD CURVE (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); CARTELS (66%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (65%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



559 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 445 words

HEADLINE: Sales Increase 4% for Starbucks

BYLINE: By CLAIRE CAIN MILLER

 BODY:
When Howard D. Schultz returned to Starbucks as its chief executive two years ago, he lamented that the coffee chain's rapid-fire expansion had watered down the experience and that customers were abandoning it as a result. 
 During the first quarter, which ended Dec. 27 and included the important holiday season, Starbucks began to prove it could get those customers back.
On Wednesday, Starbucks reported that sales at stores open at least a year grew 4 percent, the first increase since December 2008. 
 Net income at the company, which is based in Seattle, was $241.5 million, or 32 cents a share, up fourfold from $64.3 million in the same period last year. Revenue climbed 4 percent, to $2.7 billion. 
 Analysts expected the company to earn 28 cents a share on revenue of $2.65 billion.
 ''In two years time, we have transformed the corporation and, I think most importantly, the customer experience,'' Mr. Schultz said in an interview. ''The luster is back on the brand.'' 
 That process has included things like espresso-making training for baristas, new ways for customers to submit their critiques and suggestions online and healthier food in stores. 
 Cost-cutting measures -- including layoffs, store closings and methods to waste less milk and coffee in stores -- also helped the bottom line. They saved the company $580 million, 90 percent of which will be permanent, Mr. Schultz said. 
 Starbucks has also benefited from a more confident consumer. It was one of the first companies to feel the pain of the recession when people stopped spending money. Now it may be a leading indicator that people are spending again, he said. 
 Still, the days of Starbucks as a sexy growth stock are over, many analysts say. 
 ''It's not a growing company,'' said Ronnie Moas, president and director of research at Standpoint Research, an independent equity research firm. ''At a market cap of $18 billion, it takes a lot of energy to move a company of this size.'' 
 Starbucks plans to accelerate international store openings, including in new markets like Brazil and Russia. It will also create and distribute more of its own consumer packaged goods, as it did with Via Ready Brew instant coffee last year. In the past, Starbucks has partnered with companies like PepsiCo and Kraft to do this. 
 ''The lessons we've learned this year and the scars we have to prove it are still very raw,'' Mr. Schultz said. ''We're going to return the company back to profitable growth, but it should not be growth for growth's sake.'' 
 Correction: An earlier version of this article published online referred incompletely to a Starbucks instant coffee. It is Via Ready Brew, not Via.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE & TEA (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); COFFEE (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (76%); PACKAGED GOODS (76%); LAYOFFS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (75%); CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); CLOSINGS (71%); FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS (71%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); PEPSICO INC (51%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); PEP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (51%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



560 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1084 words

HEADLINE: President Presses Bid To Rein In Loan Abuse

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and SEWELL CHAN

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama on Tuesday stepped into the middle of a fierce lobbying battle by reinforcing his support for an independent agency to protect consumers against lending abuses that contributed to the financial crisis. The president's move also signaled a tougher line and a more direct role as Congress weighs an overhaul of banking regulation.
 The financial industry and Congressional Republicans have singled out the administration's proposed consumer agency in particular, hoping to greatly weaken if not kill it. With liberal Democrats and Web commentators fighting just as hard for a strong independent office, the issue is becoming the central flashpoint in the debate over regulation. 
 Mr. Obama personally weighed in on Tuesday in a one-on-one meeting at the White House with Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and chairman of the Senate Banking Committee. Reports last week suggested that Mr. Dodd might drop the consumer agency from the emerging Senate bill in order to attract support from Republicans and some centrist Democrats on his committee, but Democratic aides disputed that.
 Some Democrats in Congress and the administration describe a possible fallback position that would give enhanced consumer protection powers to existing federal regulators, perhaps to the Treasury. The banking lobby would prefer that over an independent agency.
 While administration officials declined to discuss the Obama-Dodd meeting, one said the president's proposal for a consumer protection office was ''nonnegotiable.'' The administration sees political advantage in that position, believing that a consumer protection agency is the element mostly likely to be popular with the public in a complicated bill.
 Coming days after Mr. Obama proposed a new tax on the nation's biggest banks to recover taxpayer losses from the 15-month-old financial bailout, the meeting on Tuesday suggested the White House would become more active in taking on industry lobbyists who have gained the upper hand in the Senate, winning support from Republicans and some moderate Democrats. 
 More broadly, Democrats say that Mr. Obama's stances on the consumer agency and the new tax on big banks, together with his public comments assailing the banks, suggests an effort to position himself as more of a populist fighter at the opening of a midterm election year.
 As the president ends his first year in office, he confronts lower poll numbers and a perception among many liberals and independents that his administration has been too close to Wall Street and more consumed by overhauling health insurance than fixing the overall economy.
 That narrative forced a political recalibration at the White House even before Democrats this month found their party in a sudden fight to keep the Massachusetts Senate seat long held by Edward M. Kennedy -- a race interpreted partly as a referendum on the Obama administration. The unexpected competitiveness of that contest has accelerated the partisan skirmishing typical of an election year. 
 Rhetoric aside, administration officials say Mr. Obama's positions are nothing new. ''These are things he's been fighting for since long before he took office,'' said Jennifer R. Psaki, the deputy White House communications director. But many Democratic operatives and activists say it is past time for the White House to become more engaged in challenging Republicans, and that the administration's reticence about appearing too partisan has enabled the out-of-power Republicans to shirk any responsibility for the financial crisis and high deficits Mr. Obama inherited. 
 ''The midterm elections started for the Republicans the day Obama was sworn in and they declared war on him from the get-go,'' said Geoff Garin, a Democratic consultant and pollster. 
 Mr. Obama's push for bank fees and now for the consumer protections comes just as the largest banks are about to announce their multibillion-dollar bonus packages for top executives and earners -- as he noted in recent days in some of his most populist comments to date.
 In Boston on Sunday to campaign for the Democratic Senate candidate, Martha Coakley, Mr. Obama seized on the bank fee issue to distinguish her from her Republican rival, Scott Brown. 
 ''Instead of taking the side of working families in Massachusetts, Martha's opponent is already walking in lockstep with Washington Republicans, opposing that fee, defending the same fat cats who are getting rewarded for their failure,'' Mr. Obama told the appreciative crowd.
 But banking lobbyists say such offensives will not help Mr. Obama. 
 ''Maybe the administration will decide that they want to turn this into a partisan battle but, coming out of health care, I don't think the majority of senators want to have a partisan battle,'' said Edward L. Yingling, president of the American Bankers Association. ''They want a bipartisan bill.''
 Yet many Democrats and liberal activists are holding Mr. Obama to his proposal for an independent office for consumers' financial protection.
 ''The consumer agency is the litmus test,'' said Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard law professor who has been an outspoken chairwoman of the Congressional Oversight Panel on the financial bailout.
 ''Is the financial reform bill designed to paper over problems and continue to protect the banks, or is this bill about serious reform?'' she continued. ''It's the banks versus the people, and it's time to choose. For me, that's the frame, and that's what the conversation is about. If the White House forces that choice on the Congress, then we're getting the leadership we need.''
 As proposed by the Obama administration last June, the Consumer Protection Financial Agency would be governed by a board appointed by the president and financed partly by fees on the regulated companies. 
 Mr. Obama proposed that it would have power over banks, credit unions and mortgage brokers, and oversee products including mortgages, credit cards, loan servicing, consumer-reporting data, debt collection and real estate settlements. But the House, in the regulatory bill it approved last month, exempted smaller community banks, credit unions, retail merchants and certain other companies -- leaving mainly big banks under the agency's oversight. 
 Now in the Senate, the proposal for an agency has faced stiff opposition from Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Banking Committee, and come under intense criticism from the industry. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 27, 2010

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about President Obama's support for a new agency to protect consumers against lending abuses misstated a provision of a House bill on financial regulation that would establish a consumer financial protection agency. The measure, passed last month, exempts smaller community banks and credit unions from independent annual examinations of their lending practices; it does not exempt them from regulatory authority of the agency altogether. (Annual exams for smaller community banks and credit unions are typically done by their primary regulators.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut and head of the Senate Banking Committee, has been under pressure. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); CONSUMER LAW (90%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LOBBYING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); POLITICS (79%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BANKING LAW (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); TED KENNEDY (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



561 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1194 words

HEADLINE: Paterson Offers A State Budget With Big Cuts

BYLINE: By DANNY HAKIM and NICHOLAS CONFESSORE

DATELINE: ALBANY 

 BODY:
Gov. David A. Paterson proposed on Tuesday what would be the largest cut to school aid in more than two decades and nearly $1 billion in new or increased taxes and fees as he unveiled his budget, a plan that is likely to be the first chapter in a prolonged battle with the Legislature.
 Searching for new sources of tax revenue amid a fiscal crisis, the governor proposed legalizing mixed martial arts, allowing the sale of wine in grocery stores, taxing bottled soft drinks, taxing cigarette sales on Indian reservations and deploying speed-enforcement cameras in highway work zones. 
 He even proposed charging fees to many families that enroll in an early intervention program for children with autism, attention deficit disorder and other special needs, and delaying one of his signature achievements -- a plan to increase monthly welfare allowances. 
 Facing a $7.4 billion deficit this year, the governor is presenting a relatively lean budget by the standards of a state government accustomed to unrestrained spending. His office also delivered more sobering news, projecting that the state's income will not return to the levels seen before the financial crisis until 2013. 
 The overall budget, including federal matching funds, would grow to $134 billion, up $787 million, or 0.6 percent, from the current fiscal year, which ends on March 31. State spending would increase $745 million, or 0.9 percent, to nearly $80 billion. 
 ''This is not a budget of choice; this is a budget of necessity,'' Mr. Paterson said in a speech to the Legislature on Tuesday morning. ''Ladies and gentlemen, the days of continuing taxation and the days of continuous spending have got to end,'' he added. ''The era of irresponsibility has got to stop. The age of accountability has arrived.''
 Several dozen lawmakers skipped the speech, which took place in a large egg-shaped auditorium here, and those who did attend greeted the governor's remarks with polite, if tepid, applause. Mr. Paterson has had a tense relationship with fellow Democrats, who control the Legislature, sometimes by design as he has sought to capitalize on voter discontent with the array of scandals emanating from Albany. 
 Lawmakers expressed a mix of caution and skepticism on Tuesday. ''Some of the stuff is retreads from last year that never quite made it, and I imagine they'll probably meet the same fate,'' said Senator Diane J. Savino, a Democrat representing Brooklyn and Staten Island, who singled out the soda tax and the proposal to allow groceries to sell wine. 
 Senator Malcolm A. Smith, a Queens Democrat, said the governor should not have allowed for an even modest rise in spending. ''I don't think we really should be increasing it at all,'' said Mr. Smith, the Senate president. 
 Senator Dean G. Skelos, leader of the Senate Republicans, said, ''The greatest danger'' was ''the one posed by Assembly and Senate Democrats who no doubt will push to further increase spending and taxes just like they did last year.''
 The leaders of the Legislature -- Senator John L. Sampson of Brooklyn and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver of Manhattan -- said they needed more time to review the proposals. 
 As he faces an uphill election battle, Mr. Paterson's budget is also a break from the typical practice of robust budgets in election years. With no money to throw at preferred interest groups, Mr. Paterson is betting that voters will reward him as a responsible steward instead of punishing him as a Scrooge.
 His plan would cut school aid by 5 percent in a state with the highest per-capita spending on education. It would also slow the growth of spending on Medicaid, reduce by $1 billion spending on state agencies and eliminate $300 million in undesignated annual aid to New York City. 
 But Mr. Paterson avoided harsher medicine. He has made no significant cuts to the state's work force and even assured union leaders that he would not seek layoffs this year, a risky move as the state faces huge deficits in the coming years. 
 His plan also assumes that there will be a significant recovery this year in the state's tax collections and relies on a number of recycled proposals. A new tax on sugared sodas, $1.28 per gallon, would yield $465 million, similar to a proposal that Mr. Paterson made last year but dropped amid resistance from the Legislature and companies like PepsiCo Inc., which is based in Purchase, N.Y. 
 Mr. Paterson is also proposing an increase in cigarette taxes, raising the tax per pack by $1, to $3.75, a change that would bring total taxes in New York City to $5.25 per pack.
 One of the most controversial measures is Mr. Paterson's proposal to slash school aid. Under the plan, wealthier districts would be hit hardest, a strategy that has long been fought by the State Senate, especially by senators from Long Island. Billy Easton, executive director of the Alliance for Quality Education, called it ''a colossal reversal of New York State's commitment to providing every child with a real opportunity to learn.''
 Mr. Paterson is also seeking to shrink the state's troubled youth prison system, which is facing federal scrutiny and a class-action lawsuit. He wants to close perhaps the most infamous institution, Tryon Boys Residential Center in Fulton County, where a 15-year-old boy died in November 2006 after workers pinned him to the floor. Mr. Paterson also proposes consolidating or shrinking three other youth centers.
 Another proposal would introduce fees to a state program that provides early intervention services for about 74,000 special-needs children. Families would be charged on a sliding scale, with fees starting at $180 a year for those with a household annual income of at least $55,126 and topping out at $2,160 a year for those earning at least $198,451. 
 Mr. Paterson is also proposing new assessments totaling $240 million on the state's powerful health care industry on top of the nearly $1 billion in cuts in payments to health care providers.
 He would close two tax loopholes, including one that allows people earning severance packages to avoid paying state income tax if they move out of the state. And he is proposing to restructure the state's property tax relief program, known as Star, to make it less beneficial for the wealthy. 
 Budget watchdogs had a mixed reaction, although most said that the governor's proposal lacked the gimmickry that had characterized many previous budgets. 
 ''It looks pretty clean,'' said Elizabeth Lynam, a deputy research director at the Citizens Budget Commission, a nonprofit organization. ''On the whole, I think it makes a reasonable down payment on the problems the state is facing.''
 Edmund J. McMahon, director of the Empire Center for New York State Policy, a conservative-leaning research group, said the governor was still proposing to spend too much. 
 ''What they're saying is, 'Look, we're below inflation now -- isn't that great?' '' Mr. McMahon said. ''The problem is you were several multiples of inflation ahead of personal income during one of the steepest recessions in recent history and you've got a lot of catching up to do, so this isn't good enough.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. David A. Paterson, who unveiled his budget to the Legislature in Albany on Tuesday, declared: ''The era of irresponsibility has got to stop. The age of accountability has arrived.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); CHILDREN (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (76%); AUTISM (74%); FAMILY (74%); DISABLED PERSONS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); SOFT DRINKS (70%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (70%); MARTIAL ARTS (56%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (55%); ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



562 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 510 words

HEADLINE: A Leaner Budget for Lean Times

 BODY:
Gov. David Paterson of New York presented a lean budget on Tuesday that is a necessarily austere response to the state's financial crisis. It is certain to make almost everybody unhappy. 
 The overall budget would grow by 0.6 percent, a miniscule increase by Albany's standards, to about $134 billion. Though the governor has promised (unwisely) that there will be no significant cuts to the state's work force, he would trim budgets for schools, health care, the environment and most other sectors of government. He asks for about $1 billion in new taxes. 
 Now comes the hard part: persuading the State Legislature to go along. Between now and the April 1 deadline for enacting the 2010-11 budget, legislators will be bombarded by complaints, and, if history holds, they will slip back into their old ways of adding a little here, a lot there and producing an unsustainably large budget. Mr. Paterson's biggest task will be to keep them in check. 
 Facing an estimated $7.4 billion deficit for the upcoming budget year, the governor proposes cutting $1.1 billion in school aid -- a 5 percent reduction that is the largest proposed cut in education in two decades. The cuts are, properly, concentrated in richer, suburban areas, which means they will be vigorously opposed by state senators from Long Island. 
 He also proposes to slow the growth in Medicaid costs and to decrease spending for state agencies, including the poorly run youth prison system that is now facing a court challenge and federal investigation.
 The new taxes would include a $1-per-pack addition to the $3.75 state tax on cigarettes and a penny-an-ounce levy on colas and other sugared beverages. The revenue from the cigarette tax is expected to collect $218 million a year, but the far more controversial soda tax could bring in as much as $465 million a year. 
 Both are useful ways to raise money, especially since the governor has promised to use the proceeds for health care. But he has proposed a soda tax before, then caved, after orchestrated industry protests across the state. This time, he should resist and keep the tax.
 Other proposals seem marginal and, indeed, could sidetrack the governor and Legislature from their primary mission, which is to pass a sensible budget. For example, Mr. Paterson wants to legalize mixed martial arts, popularly known as ultimate fighting, which he says would add $2.1 million to state accounts. That's peanuts, and hardly worth the legalization of a controversial ''sport.'' It should be debated as a separate issue. 
 The governor also announced important reforms in higher education, giving state and city institutions much-needed authority to set their own tuition. That could be a hard sell with legislators who resist giving up control of any fund-raising mechanism.
 Still, Mr. Paterson's budget makes sense and, for the most part, asks for shared sacrifice. That is a reasonable approach even though this is an election year, when reason does not routinely prevail. The governor has set himself a difficult but necessary task. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); MEDICAID (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TUITION FEES (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (76%); LABOR FORCE (72%); INVESTIGATIONS (68%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (64%); MARTIAL ARTS (63%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (63%); SUBURBS (51%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (50%); PRISONS (50%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



563 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1255 words

HEADLINE: Centrist, And Yet Not Unified

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
So what should happen with health reform now?
 The stunning victory of Scott Brown, the Massachusetts Republican who will have Ted Kennedy's old Senate seat, suggests that public opinion has turned against the proposal. It's hard to know exactly how Democrats will respond. But given the sudden uncertainty over health reform's fate, this does seem to be an important time to boil down its substance. 
 Here's my attempt: The bills before Congress are politically partisan and substantively bipartisan.
 What does that mean? The first part is obvious. All 60 Senate Democrats and independents voted for the bill, and all 40 Republicans voted against it. The second part is the counterintuitive one. Yet it's true. 
 The current versions of health reform are the product of decades of debate between Republicans and Democrats. The bills are more conservative than Bill Clinton's 1993 proposal. For that matter, they're more conservative than Richard Nixon's 1971 plan, which would have had the federal government provide insurance to people who didn't get it through their job.
 Today's Congressional Republicans have made the strategically reasonable decision to describe President Obama's health care plan, like almost every other part of his agenda, as radical and left wing. And the message seems to be at least partly working, based on polls and the Massachusetts surprise. But a smart political strategy isn't the same thing as accurate policy analysis.
 The better way to describe the Obama agenda, I think, is that it's ambitious (even radical) in its scope and sharply different in direction from the Reagan-Bush era, but mostly moderate in terms of how far it goes on any single issue.
 Mr. Obama wants to undo George W. Bush's high-income tax cuts, but would keep the basic Reagan tax structure intact. The administration is trying to re-regulate financial markets, but has rejected the sweeping ideas favored by the former Federal Reserve chairman Paul Volcker, British regulators and many liberals. The pattern is especially clear on Afghanistan and Iraq.
 Now, a centrist approach isn't necessarily the best one -- no matter how good it may sound to call yourself a centrist. Sometimes, Republicans are right about an issue (whether the welfare system was broken) and sometimes Democrats are (whether to respond to an economic crisis with fiscal stimulus or a Hooverite approach).
 Maybe the country would be better off with a big-government health care plan, like a Medicare for all. Or maybe we'd be better off with a free-market version, in which people shopped for their own plans in an open marketplace. Those are interesting enough arguments. They also make it clear that the bills before Congress are not particularly radical.
 A little history is useful here. The first modern attempt at health reform, as you've probably heard, came from Harry Truman. After World War II, he proposed a government insurance plan that would cover everyone. Republicans and the American Medical Association labeled the plan ''socialistic'' -- which, in some ways, it was. 
 Opponents instead called for expanding the private insurance system. Nixon, then a young California representative, and others suggested government subsidies for people who couldn't afford insurance, as Paul Starr explains in his Pulitzer Prize-winning book, ''The Social Transformation of American Medicine.'' But the socialism critique was strong enough to defeat Truman's plan without need for compromise. 
 The next push came from John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, who tried to cover only the elderly. Critics cried socialism about Medicare, too. ''Behind it will come other federal programs that will invade every area of freedom as we have known it in this country,'' as Reagan, who was then working as the American Medical Association's spokesman, said in a widely circulated speech. This time, though, big Congressional majorities and sympathy for the elderly let the Democrats prevail.
 Once Nixon was president, the focus switched from expanding access to controlling costs, as you might expect with a Republican. He favored giving doctors incentives to set up prepaid group practices, which had the potential to provide better, cheaper care than the fee-for-service system. Ted Kennedy often said he regretted not making a deal with Nixon on health reform. 
 The current bills, for better and worse, are akin to a negotiated settlement to this six-decade debate. It would try to end our status as the only rich country with tens of millions of uninsured people, as liberals have long urged. And it would do so using private insurers and government subsidies, as conservatives prefer. (I realize that some liberals argue that a more liberal bill would have fared better, but the history of the health reform -- not to mention this country's conservative instincts -- offers reason for doubt.)
 On cost control, the bill is similarly centrist. In 1993, Mr. Clinton pushed for putting a cap on the growth of insurance premiums -- an idea similar to having a national health budget, which conservative governments in other countries have done. Today's Democrats saw that move as too radical. Instead, they have borrowed Nixon's old push for prepaid group practices, which are now called accountable care organizations. 
 Together, the cost-control measures are serious enough that the Congressional Budget Office estimates they would save the government $1 trillion in the next 20 years, over and above the cost of covering the uninsured. Some experts remain doubtful of these projections. Others, though, think the budget office is underestimating the savings, as it has with past Medicare changes. 
 The one big conservative idea that's largely missing is malpractice reform. But the White House said several times that it was willing to negotiate on this issue. And think about it: Rahm Emanuel, the Obama chief of staff, likes to say the only thing that's not negotiable is success. Don't you think Mr. Obama would have gladly taken some heat from trial lawyers in exchange for passing health reform with bipartisan support and making himself look like a transformational leader?
 The obvious question, then, is how the current bill could have inspired such skepticism from voters. 
 The unified Republican message is part of the answer. So is the fact that Mr. Obama never found a strong, consistent way to sell the bill. That said, health reform was never going to be easy. 
 Something like 90 percent of voters already have insurance. Many imagine that they will never lose it. Many people even believe they don't pay for their insurance, because the money comes out of their paycheck before they see it. (They do pay in lost income.) Polls also show that Americans are more aware of our medical system's strengths than its weaknesses (like needlessly high error rates). As for Medicare being on course to break the bank -- voters rarely get excited about future fiscal problems. 
 So health reform was probably destined to inspire more fear than hope. It's been that way since Truman. 
 In the wake of Mr. Brown's victory, the decision facing Democrats is not whether to start with a blank slate and try to write a bill based on both liberal health care ideas and conservative ones. They've already tried that. 
 The decision is whether to expand insurance and try to control costs, despite the political risks, or whether that project will once again be put off until another day. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE POLICY (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); MEDICARE (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAX LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); TAX RELIEF (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); INCOME TAX (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); TED KENNEDY (73%); SCOTT BROWN (73%); BILL CLINTON (73%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (75%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



564 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Big Plans For Coachella

BYLINE: Compiled by RANDY KENNEDY

 BODY:
Jay-Z, Muse and Gorillaz will headline the 11th annual Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival when that sprawling rock event gets under way on April 16 in Indio, Calif., planners announced on Tuesday. They are hoping to maintain the momentum from last year, when the festival drew its second-highest crowds, despite the economic downturn. The big news from the show is that it will serve as a stop on what seems to be shaping up as a sizable reunion tour for the long-lamented lo-fi band Pavement, which broke up a decade ago. Along with bands of the moment like Vampire Weekend, Dirty Projectors, Girls and Grizzly Bear, this year's lineup includes some venerable names like Gil Scott-Heron, Grace Jones, Devo and Sly and the Family Stone, along with a few oddball entries like the filmmaker John Waters (maybe he'll do his rendition of ''Mama, I'm a Big Girl Now'' from ''Hairspray''?) and D J Lance Rock, of the hipster children's show ''Yo Gabba Gabba'' fame. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (56%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

PERSON: JAY-Z (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



565 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1091 words

HEADLINE: A Year Later, Voters Send a Different Message

BYLINE: By ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Special elections come and go. And the party that wins the White House one year ordinarily loses seats in the next Congressional election that comes along.
 But what happened in Massachusetts on Tuesday was no ordinary special election. 
 Scott Brown, a Republican state senator for only five years, shocked and arguably humiliated the White House and the Democratic Party establishment by defeating Martha Coakley in the race for a United States Senate seat. He did it one day short of a year after President Obama stood on the steps of the United States Capitol, looking across a mass of faces that celebrated the potential of his presidency.
 As a result, Mr. Obama will spend the first anniversary of his inauguration watching Democrats tangle in an unseemly quarrel over who lost Massachusetts -- Ms. Coakley's pollster, Celinda Lake, called the Huffington Post four hours before the polls closed to blame Democratic leaders in Washington -- and contemplating a political landscape that has been thoroughly upended in the course of only 10 days. 
 The implications are sure to be far-reaching, and the result leaves Mr. Obama with a long list of tough choices. 
 Stripped of the 60th vote needed to block Republican filibusters in the Senate, will Mr. Obama now make further accommodations to Republicans in an effort to move legislation through Congress with more bipartisanship, even at the cost of further alienating liberals annoyed at what they see as his ideological malleability? 
 Or will he seek to rally his party's base through confrontation, even if it means giving up on getting much done this year?
 Will he find a way to ram his health care bill through Congress quickly in the wake of the Massachusetts loss, so that his party can run on a major if controversial accomplishment? Or will he heed the warnings of Republicans, and now some Democrats, that to do so would be to ignore the message of Tuesday's election, with its clear overtones of dissatisfaction with the administration's approach so far? 
 It is not just questions of policy: for Mr. Obama and the Democrats, already worried about the coming midterm elections, the results could hardly have been more distressing. States do not come more Democratic than Massachusetts, the only one that voted for George McGovern over Richard Nixon in 1972, a fact that older residents still recount with fresh pride. By challenging the legacy of Edward M. Kennedy, the holder of the contested seat for 46 years and a liberal icon, the Republican victory could only be dispiriting to the left.
 Most ominously, independent voters -- who embraced Mr. Obama's presidential campaign and are an increasingly critical constituency -- seemed to have fled to Mr. Brown in Massachusetts, as they did to Republicans in races for governor in Virginia and New Jersey last November. It is hard not to view that as a repudiation of the way Mr. Obama and Democratic Congressional leaders have run things.
 ''This is a giant wake-up call,'' said Terry McAuliffe, the former Democratic National Committee chairman who lost a bid for the Democratic nomination for governor in Virginia last year. ''We have to keep our focus on job creation. Everything we have to do is related to job creation. We have to do a much better job on the message. People are confused on what this health care bill is going to do.''
 Even before the polls closed, the White House was suggesting the outlines of a recovery strategy, a combination of a more populist tone and an embrace of greater fiscal responsibility. 
 Mr. Obama has signaled that he intends to take a more populist stance on financial regulation legislation in Congress, seeking to position Democrats as defenders of the people against Wall Street, and to cast Republicans as defenders of bonus-laden bankers. And on Tuesday night, the White House brokered a deal that could lead to a bipartisan commission to recommend spending cuts and tax increases to address the nation's fiscal condition. For months, Mr. Obama's advisers had warned that the perception that budget deficits and the national debt were spiraling out of control was alienating independent voters already turned off by partisan battling. 
 David Axelrod, a senior adviser to Mr. Obama, said he did not view the results as a repudiation of the White House's agenda, but he acknowledged that the administration needed to do a more effective job of signaling concern about the problems gripping Americans.
 ''We are the party in power, and as such there's an element of responsibility assigned,'' he said. ''I think people need to know that their challenges and their concerns are the focus of our work every day.''
 Ms. Coakley lost in no small part because of what many Democrats viewed as a stumbling campaign against a sharp and focused opponent. There is a good argument that the outcome was as much an anti-incumbent wave during tough economic times as it was an anti-Democratic wave. And there is still time before the midterm elections for the economy to rebound in a way that benefits Democratic candidates, and for Mr. Obama to make a case that the health care legislation, if he finds a way to sign it into law, will benefit the hard-pressed middle class.
 Still, Ms. Coakley's defeat could easily be seen as evidence that the Obama White House is out of step with much of the American public -- pushing through a health care plan at a time when many voters are primarily concerned about unemployment. 
 Mr. Obama could find it more difficult to get moderate and conservative-leaning Democrats in Congress to cast politically tough votes. 
 It will be lost on few in the House or the Senate that the Democratic defeat in an overwhelmingly Democratic state came despite a last-minute personal appeal from Mr. Obama, who campaigned here for Ms. Coakley on Sunday. This suggests that Mr. Obama may be of limited or no help to candidates in close elections. No less important, he may not have much leverage to stop them from defying him in Washington.
 ''I think there's been a misreading of where the public is at: having a health care debate when so many people were focused on their jobs,'' said Joe Trippi, a Democratic political consultant who managed the presidential campaign of Howard Dean in 2004. 
 ''The failure to understand how anti-establishment the country has become is a big part of the problem,'' Mr. Trippi said of Mr. Obama and the White House. ''He actually led the way on that in the campaign and didn't recognize what was happening as he was president.''

GRAPHIC: GRAPHICS: Massachusetts Special Election Results: Who won in each township
 Every township voted more Republican than in 2008 (Source: Results from The Associated Press with 99 percent of precincts reporting) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (88%); GOVERNORS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MARTHA COAKLEY (73%); TED KENNEDY (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



566 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 20, 2010
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Surges to Senate Victory in Massachusetts

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Reporting was contributed by Katie Zezima, Danielle Ossher and Bret Silverberg in Massachusetts, and Carl Hulse and David M. Herszenhorn in Washington.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Scott Brown, a little-known Republican state senator, rode an old pickup truck and a growing sense of unease among independent voters to an extraordinary upset Tuesday night when he was elected to fill the Senate seat that was long held by Edward M. Kennedy in the overwhelmingly Democratic state of Massachusetts. 
 By a decisive margin, Mr. Brown defeated Martha Coakley, the state's attorney general, who had been considered a prohibitive favorite to win just over a month ago after she easily won the Democratic primary.
 With all precincts counted, Mr. Brown had 52 percent of the vote to Ms. Coakley's 47 percent. 
 ''Tonight the independent voice of Massachusetts has spoken,'' Mr. Brown told his cheering supporters in a victory speech, standing in front of a backdrop that said ''The People's Seat.'' 
 The election left Democrats in Congress scrambling to salvage a bill overhauling the nation's health care system, which the late Mr. Kennedy had called ''the cause of my life.'' Mr. Brown has vowed to oppose the bill, and once he takes office the Democrats will no longer control the 60 votes in the Senate needed to overcome filibusters.
 There were immediate signs that the bill had become imperiled. House members indicated they would not quickly pass the bill the Senate approved last month. 
 And after the results were announced, one centrist Democratic senator, Jim Webb of Virginia, called on Senate leaders to suspend any votes on the Democrats' health care legislation until Mr. Brown is sworn into office. The election, he said, was a referendum on both health care and the integrity of the government process.
 Beyond the bill, the election of a man supported by the Tea Party movement also represented an unexpected reproach by many voters to President Obama after his first year in office, and struck fear into the hearts of Democratic lawmakers, who are already worried about their prospects in the midterm elections later this year. 
 Mr. Brown was able to appeal to independents who were anxious about the economy and concerned about the direction taken by Democrats, now that they control both Beacon Hill and Washington. He rallied his supporters when he said, at the last debate, that he was not running for Mr. Kennedy's seat but for ''the people's seat.''
 That seat, held for nearly half a century by Mr. Kennedy, the liberal lion of the Senate, will now be held for the next two years by a Republican who has said he supports waterboarding as an interrogation technique for terrorism suspects, opposes a federal cap-and-trade program to reduce carbon emissions and opposes a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants unless they leave the country. It was a sharp swing of the pendulum, but even Democratic voters said they wanted the Obama administration to change direction.
 ''I'm hoping that it gives a message to the country,'' said Marlene Connolly, 73, of North Andover, a lifelong Democrat who said she cast her first vote for a Republican on Tuesday. ''I think if Massachusetts puts Brown in, it's a message of 'that's enough.' Let's stop the giveaways and let's get jobs going.'' 
 Mr. Brown ran strongest in the suburbs of Boston, where the independent voters who make up a majority in Massachusetts turned out in large numbers. Ms. Coakley did best in urban areas, winning overwhelmingly in Boston and running ahead in Springfield, Worcester, Fall River and New Bedford, but her margins were not large enough to carry her to victory. 
 In a concession speech before cheering supporters, Ms. Coakley acknowledged that voters were angry and said she had hoped to deal with the concerns.
 ''Our mission continues, and our work goes on,'' she said, echoing well-known remarks by Mr. Kennedy. ''I am heartbroken at the result, as I know you are, and I know we will get up together tomorrow and continue this fight, even with this result tonight.''
 The crowd at Mr. Brown's victory rally, upset by reports that Democrats might try to vote on the health care bill before he takes office, chanted, ''Seat him now!'' Mr. Brown, for his part, noted that the interim senator holding the seat had finished his work, and that he was ready to go to Washington ''without delay.'' And he effusively praised Mr. Kennedy as a big-hearted, tireless worker, and said that he hoped to prove a worthy successor to him.
 Ms. Coakley's defeat, in a state that Mr. Obama won in 2008 with 62 percent of the vote, led to a round of finger-pointing among Democrats. Some criticized her tendency for gaffes -- in a radio interview she offended Red Sox fans when she incorrectly suggested that Curt Schilling, a beloved former Red Sox pitcher, was a Yankee fan -- while others criticized a lackluster, low-key campaign.
 Mr. Brown presented himself as a Massachusetts Everyman, featuring the pickup truck he drives around the state in his speeches and one of his television commercials, calling in to talk radio shows and campaigning with popular local sports figures.
 The implications of the election drew nationwide attention, and millions of dollars of outside spending, to the race. It transformed what many had expected to be a sleepy, low-turnout special election on a snowy day in January into a high-profile contest that appeared to draw more voters than expected to the polls. There were reports of traffic jams outside suburban polling stations, while other polling stations had to call for extra ballots.
 The late surge by Mr. Brown appeared to catch Democrats by surprise, causing them to scramble in the last week and a half of the campaign and hastily schedule an appearance by Mr. Obama with Ms. Coakley on Sunday afternoon.
 ''Understand what's at stake here, Massachusetts,'' Mr. Obama said in his speech that day, repeatedly invoking Mr. Kennedy's legacy. ''It's whether we're going forwards or backwards.'' He all but pleaded with voters to support Ms. Coakley, to preserve his agenda.
 As voters went to the polls, Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, made it clear that the president was ''not pleased'' with the situation Ms. Coakley found herself in. ''He was both surprised and frustrated,'' Mr. Gibbs said. 
 Although the race has riveted the nation largely because it was seen as contributing to the success or defeat of the health care bill, the potency of the issue for voters here was difficult to gauge. That is because Massachusetts already has near-universal health coverage, thanks to a law passed when Mitt Romney, a Republican, was governor. 
 Thus Massachusetts is one of the few states where the benefits promised by the national bill were expected to have little effect on how many of its residents got coverage, making it an unlikely place for a referendum on the health care bill. 
 On Capitol Hill, the fate of the health care legislation was highly uncertain as Democratic leaders quickly gathered to plot strategy in the wake of the Republican victory.
 Sentiment about how to proceed was mixed, with several lawmakers saying the House would not accept the Senate-passed plan. Top officials had said that approach was the party's best alternative, and many members said they still believed it was crucial that Democrats pass a plan.
 ''It is important for us to pass legislation,'' said Representative Baron P. Hill, a conservative Democrat from Indiana. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 21, 2010

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the election of Scott Brown, a Republican, to fill the Senate seat from Massachusetts that was long held by Edward M. Kennedy, a Democrat, misstated the amount of time Mr. Brown will fill the seat until it is up for election again. Depending on how soon he is sworn in, Mr. Brown will serve almost three full years -- not two. (The next election will be in November 2012, and the winner will be sworn in for a six-year term in early January 2013.) 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Scott Brown, the winner of the Senate race, celebrating in Boston on Tuesday. The seat was long held by Edward M. Kennedy, and Mr. Brown's victory was a big setback for the Democratic Party. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHARLES KRUPA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Supporters of Scott Brown at his election night headquarters. Mr. Brown was a little-known state senator when he entered what was seen as a long-shot race. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRYCE VICKMARK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The mood was grim among Martha Coakley's supporters as the results came in to their hotel in Boston. Ms. Coakley, right, making her concession speech. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (88%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); LIBERALISM (73%); REFERENDUMS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); EMISSIONS (50%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%); TERRORISM (50%); APPROVALS (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (94%); MARTHA COAKLEY (90%); TED KENNEDY (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JIM WEBB (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010



567 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1137 words

HEADLINE: A Look That's Bulletproof

BYLINE: By RUTH LA FERLA

 BODY:
JACK BAUER is in play again, and so is his hard-guy attire -- sweaty T-shirt, leather jacket and that government agent's staple: a bulletproof vest. 
 The tactical gear that lends special agent Bauer his menacing mien on ''24'' is the hidden armor of counterterrorist operatives, heads of state and paranoid plutocrats. It has also been appropriated by Hollywood dignitaries and hip-hop moguls, enhancing the rogue personas of artists like 50 Cent. 
 So it may have been only a matter of time before aspiring hipsters embraced the style -- the sartorial equivalent of a safe room -- as a badge of cool. 
 A stepped-up demand for vests, blazers and hoodies tough enough to deflect a .22-caliber blast but sleek enough for a night of clubbing suggests that body armor is not just for the security-conscious. Fake or real, it exerts a pull on those inclined to flaunt it as a flinty fashion statement. 
 ''The trend to protective gear is pretty strong right now,'' said Richard Geist, the founder of Uncle Sam's Army Navy Outfitters in downtown Manhattan. ''It's big with rappers, alternative types and even some women.'' 
 Uncle Sam's sells protective gear to the military. But most of its clients are civilians who snap up authentic bulletproof vests for as much as $1,000 or trade down to look-alike versions stripped of their armored lining ($24). Real or fake, ''the look is tough,'' Mr. Geist said, ''and customers love it.'' 
 Tough enough to push a fascination with military styles -- from the fall men's wear unveiled in Milan this week to the windows of the Gap -- to new levels of ferocity. ''Anything macho has extra appeal right now,'' said Jeremy Gutsche, the editor of Trend Hunter magazine, an online publication. ''Adding a little shock or aggression to fashion makes things that much more interesting.''
 That extra fierceness appears to be the inevitable, if unsettling, expression of a defensive mind-set intensified of late by concerns about terrorism, escalating crime rates and economic instability. 
 ''When people are feeling less secure, there is more demand for armor,'' said Nick Taylor, who is the manager of BulletProofME.com, a Web site selling tactical gear to police officers, security guards and journalists in war zones. Sales of antiballistic jackets, vests and even backpacks have risen by some 20 percent this year, Mr. Taylor said. Recently he has found himself fielding requests from real estate agents involved in foreclosure eviction proceedings, repo men, convenience store clerks and ''regular folks from all walks of life who've kind of had a brush with crime.'' 
 And fashion folks, of course -- many of them self-styled S.W.A.T. commandos who scour spy shops, army surplus outfitters and online retailers for vests and coats that combine serviceability with a significant measure of style. Bulletproof vests have yet to claim the modish status of a biker jacket, but to those in the vanguard, they offer a comparably hard-edged chic. 
 Protection and a kind of gritty glamour are the flip sides of a common theme at BladeRunner, a London-based online merchant of slash-proof T-shirts and hoodies, including one with a barbed-wire pattern ($135). Customers visiting Spymaster, the London store where BladeRunner is sold, encounter an alluring mannequin tricked out in a slash-proof T-shirt and lethal-looking gloves. The graphic designers, artists and assorted fashion followers who make up the company's client base ''don't care if these things come with protective lining,'' said Usman Mahiz, the director of the line. ''They buy it because it looks cool.'' 
 Henry O. Greene, the founder of New Centurion Body Armor in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., makes customized vests for law enforcement and security agencies and caters as well to hip-hop performers and high-profile athletes. ''If Michael Jordan says, 'I got body armor,' '' Mr. Greene predicted, ''everyone is going to want it.'' For a certain type of peacock, he added, acquiring a bulletproof vest to layer under or over one's street garb is ''all about the bragging rights.'' 
 The eye adjusts, they say, and the sorts of urban armor worn by would-be Jack Bauers and devotees of gangsta style make fewer waves today than they would have a decade ago. (While it is illegal to wear a bulletproof vest in the commission of a crime, New York City law does not prohibit residents from wearing one.) Since 9/11, when National Guardsmen began patrolling streets and subway platforms, ''aggressive imagery has become a part of our urban environment,'' said Terrence Kelleman, the owner of Dynomighty Design, which sells close-fitting T-shirts printed with the image of a bulletproof vest. Sure, the shirt is a novelty, Mr. Kelleman acknowledged, but he designed it ''as an expression of that tough new reality.'' 
 Miguel Caballero, a Colombian entrepreneur -- and for nearly two decades a reigning monarch of high-end body armor -- is no stranger to that reality. Mr. Caballero has sold trench coats, business suits, riding jackets and blazers to an A-list clientele including President Alvaro Uribe of Colombia and President Hugo Chavez of Venezuela. His deep-pocketed clients order custom-tailored Italian leather jackets that can deflect bullets from a handgun (about $6,000) or polo shirts that can cost as much as $4,000. A year ago, Mr. Caballero opened a boutique in Mexico City, where its neighbors are Cartier, Louis Vuitton and Giorgio Armani. Like most bulletproof lines, his clothing incorporates Kevlar, which offers varying degrees of protection against small-caliber guns or even assault rifles. The material tends to be rigid, but the prospect of discomfort is no deterrent to trend-driven shoppers like those who seek out Kevlar-lined vests 50 Cent might envy from Onyx Armor, a New Zealand-based online purveyor of bulletproof vests, jackets and windbreakers. 
 Customers at Uncle Sam's are gravitating to authentic vests of a type worn by soldiers in Iraq, Mr. Geist said. Others like the playfully aggressive look of a vest made by the company and decorated, incongruously, with a spray of glitter or a Buddha head. 
 Similarly subversive styles are being marketed as novelties. The Web teems with protective gear, including bulletproof sunglasses and brassieres (designed for German policewomen) and child-size mock bulletproof vests made for little girls with an aversion to all things sugar and spice. At Tactical Corset, a multi-strapped and pocketed body cincher is offered unlined for between $300 and $500, and armored for $1,000. Alex Peake, its designer, is selling the corset to rock stars and other high profile personalities quick to adopt its steely look as a brash stylistic signature. ''We see this as a high-tech, high-powered fashion item,'' Mr. Peake said, ''and as fashion, it has a future.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PROTECTION: A bulletproof vest from Uncle Sam's Army Navy Outfitters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SIEN)(E1)
ON DEFENSE: The tough guy style of Jack Bauer from ''24,'' right, plays out with hoodies, left, and jackets, far right, lined with Kevlar. Also available, a bulletproof vest T-shirt, above, and a ''Tactical Corset,'' top left. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANTHONY MANDLER/FOX
BLADERUNNER
DYNOMIGHTY TOP
ONYX ARMOR, RIGHT
 ENRIQUE GUTIERREZ/WWW.N-RE-K.COM)(E7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (90%); FUR & LEATHER CLOTHING (90%); HIP HOP CULTURE (90%); CRIME RATES (87%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); MEN (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); TERRORISM (76%); RAP MUSIC (76%); ARMIES (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); GENERAL CLOTHING STORES (71%); MEN'S CLOTHING (69%); NAVIES (66%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (66%); WRITERS (66%); JOURNALISM (66%); FORECLOSURE (60%); EVICTION (60%)

PERSON: 50 CENT (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



568 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 639 words

HEADLINE: Fed Chief In New York Defends Main Office

BYLINE: By SEWELL CHAN

 BODY:
The president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York warned Wednesday against auditing the Federal Reserve's interest-rate decisions and curbing its regulatory powers, as some in Congress have urged. It was his most detailed defense to date of the central bank's conduct during the financial crisis.
 At the same time, the president, William C. Dudley, offered a candid assessment of the failings of regulators. 
 In a speech to the Partnership for New York City, he conceded that the Fed and other regulators ''did not sufficiently understand the importance'' of the increased risks that had made the financial system ''much more fragile and vulnerable'' to panics. 
 Emergency lending, which the Fed used to pump hundreds of billions of dollars into the economy, was ''a blunt and messy solution, employed as a stopgap measure because better alternatives were not available,'' Mr. Dudley said. 
 He added: ''These actions truly were extraordinary -- well outside the scope of our normal operations, but our judgment was that not taking those actions would have risked a broader collapse of the financial system and a significantly deeper and more protracted recession.''
 Mr. Dudley's remarks echoed statements by Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, in a report to the Senate Banking Committee last week, and by Paul A. Volcker, a former Fed chairman, in a speech in New York. 
 Together, the remarks suggested a bolstering of support by former and current Fed officials in the face of Congressional scrutiny.
 Some members of Congress are calling for subjecting the Federal Reserve's monetary policy decisions to review by the Government Accountability Office, an arm of Congress, and for consolidating regulation and stripping away some of the Fed's oversight powers. 
 Mr. Dudley warned that external audits would be seen as ''a mechanism to publicly second-guess'' the Fed's decisions, and hinder the central bank's role in keeping inflation down while promoting maximum employment. 
 ''Market confidence here and abroad in the Federal Reserve would be undermined,'' he said. ''Asset prices could quickly build in an added risk premium, which might lead to tighter credit conditions.''
 Mr. Dudley said there were ''legitimate questions as to how broad the Federal Reserve's regulatory and supervisory responsibilities should be.'' He added, ''What is fundamentally at issue here is not 'turf,' but rather how we as a nation can best ensure that we never again relive the events of the past few years.''
 Having learned from the crisis, Mr. Dudley said, the Fed would work to raise capital requirements, toughen liquidity standards and revise compensation guidelines ''so that financial-sector employees are rewarded for long-term performance and discouraged from excessive risk-taking.''
 Trained as an economist, Mr. Dudley joined the New York Fed, the largest and most influential of the 12 Federal Reserve banks, in 2007 after a career at Goldman Sachs. He became president a year ago when his predecessor, Timothy F. Geithner, was named Treasury secretary. 
 Mr. Geithner has come under intense criticism for his actions as New York Fed president during the financial crisis; he has been summoned to testify before a House committee next week on the New York Fed's bailout of the American International Group, the insurance conglomerate. 
 Mr. Dudley also urged Congress and regulators to address the problem of financial institutions growing so large -- and taking on so much risk -- that they force the government to step in with a bailout or else risk a broader collapse of markets. 
 ''It is clear that we must develop a truly robust resolution mechanism that allows for the orderly wind-down of a failing institution and that limits the contagion to the broader financial system,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: William C. Dudley 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AUDITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); RECESSION (77%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (93%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (93%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



569 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ABROAD; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: In Europe, The Arts Ask for Alms

BYLINE: By MICHAEL KIMMELMAN; Maia de la Baume contributed reporting from Paris.

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
Last week the shadow culture secretary for Britain's Conservative Party, Jeremy Hunt, promised to introduce ''a U.S.-style culture of philanthropy'' if the Tories come to power in the coming election. Speaking before the State of the Arts conference in London, Mr. Hunt foresaw a ''golden age'' of tax breaks to encourage private donations and help cut back on government spending. 
 ''I do believe in state funding,'' he reassured his no doubt partly skeptical audience, ''but we are committed to a mixed-economy funding model for the arts.'' He added that the party's shadow chancellor, George Osborne, agreed with him. 
 And in Paris last month the Pompidou museum was shut down by a strike for more than two weeks, and other museums for several days, because France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy, also wants to reduce arts support. He has proposed making cuts in the whole state workforce, with its jobs for life and generous pensions, including at cultural institutions like the Louvre, the palace of Versailles and the National Library. The plan is for only one worker to replace every two who retire. The Pompidou Center's labor union estimates that the museum would lose some 200 jobs in the next decade as a result. 
 French museums are supposed to raise money if they want more workers. In short, to Americanize the system, as Mr. Hunt is proposing in Britain. 
 Didier Alaime, who represents the Confederation Generale du Travail, the country's biggest union, in its dealings with the Culture Ministry, said the other day that ''the more public policies are dependent on private financing, the more they risk feeling the ups and downs of the market.'' He added, ''The more we're dependent on outside financing, the less we''-- he was speaking about the people of France --''control the policies that are financed.'' 
 Mr. Alaime recalled how a few years ago the Louvre relied not on public money but on a gift from Total, the oil company, to pay for the restoration of its Apollo Gallery, where now ''the name of the sponsor is more visible than the name of the gallery itself.'' 
 ''It gives the impression that culture is merchandise,'' he said. 
 Franck Guillaumet, secretary of the union for Pompidou employees, echoed that thought. He lamented how ''we have to struggle against this unfortunate trend in order to preserve the French cultural exception,'' as many in France proudly call the country's brand of cultural protectionism. Increasingly, he added, ''we live under a Thatcherian system in which public service and civil servants are demonized.''
 The only thing worse for the French than becoming more like America, apparently, is becoming more like Britain.
 But Britain and France may not be so far apart when it comes to public versus private financing. For years Americanization has been creeping in in both countries and in others in Europe, like Italy and Germany. American culturati tend to idolize the Old World approach whereby governments pick up the tab for culture. (In the Pompidou's case more than 70 percent of the cost of running the museum is paid by the French government.) But a consequence is that European cultural institutions have, compared with those in the United States, next to no tradition of private giving. There are few, if any, tax incentives to entice private donations in many countries. Even volunteer work tends to be frowned upon: paid employees seem to consider it a threat, not a boon to public service. 
 Here in Berlin I often escape for an hour or two to the Gemaldegalerie, this city's museum of old master paintings, one of the best in the world. But because it's off the beaten tourist path, and because this is Germany and not France, it is nearly always empty. In room after room of Giotto and Raphael, Titian and Rembrandt, Durer and Holbein I find myself alone, save for the sandal-clad guards spending quiet days of monkish solitude, sharing what I have come over the years to think of as my private Filippo Lippi, my personal Vermeer, my own Chardins and Watteaus. 
 It is a glorious gift, and I am grateful to a public financing system that in this particular case is not yet in thrall to, or is proudly resisting, the marketing strategies that have turned the Musee d'Orsay in Paris and the Museum of Modern Art in New York and the Tate Modern in London into the equivalents of Wal-Marts on Black Friday. Bureaucratic benign neglect likewise sustains dozens of German opera companies, whose proliferation is a point of national pride. At the same time, by freeing these companies from market forces, it allows them to answer to pretty much no one except themselves. The abundance of mediocre opera productions in Germany is a consequence. 
 Even when government-sponsored culture begins with grand ambitions, the machinery of state can grind it down. Just as Georges Pompidou, France's president, devised the Pompidou museum, his successor Francois Mitterrand opened the Orsay as part of an attempt to guarantee his own cultural legacy, and then Jacques Chirac did the same with the Branly museum for non-Western cultures. (In France presidents are aspiring Medicis, with public money.) In those cases -- politics twisted how objects are displayed, as artifacts of a dubious revisionist history at Orsay and, even if unwittingly, as exhibits in a colonialist zoo at Branly -- they also produced shopping-mall-style museums.
 The point? Government patronage is no panacea in Europe, admirable and beautiful though it may be in principle and sometimes in reality. Private patronage, meanwhile, can have its distinct advantages. True, strings are usually attached. But a variety of donors tend to allow an institution more independence and flexibility, more lightness on its feet. 
 In Italy, where government-run museums struggle under sclerotic bureaucracies, private collectors and companies have set up foundations and exhibition spaces like the Fondazione Prada in Milan and the Fondazione Sandretto Re Rebaudengo in Turin that set a standard for contemporary art there. In Germany the Festspielhaus Baden-Baden, an opera house and concert hall criticized by many here for eschewing government money and relying on private patronage, though it has a mixed record, has given the Bayreuth and Salzburg festivals runs for their money. 
 American museum directors these days must spend their careers passing the tin cup, but by now government grants in the United States, which were always small, are beholden to special interests and awarded to recipients who will offend neither left nor right -- so they offer no real alternative. 
 In an ideal world America would be more like Europe, and vice versa. In America's case it's probably too late. For the moment European museums are stuck between privatization and the lack of private donors. 
 You don't have to be a Tory to believe that sweetening the pot, tax-wise, would help spur charitable giving. Despite what the French unionist Mr. Alaime said, public support doesn't spare cultural institutions from cutbacks when the global economy tanks. And rich donors might even help compensate in bad times. In any case they're necessary. Like it or not, Europe is, in this respect anyway, lurching toward America.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tourists in Paris in December found the doors of the Pompidou Center closed because of a strike. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIGUEL MEDINA/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE) C1)
The Gemaldegalerie in Berlin specializes in Old Masters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRAHAM MORRISON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 The Apollo Gallery at the Louvre in Paris was renovated with money from Total, the oil company. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REMY DE LA MAUVINIERE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PHILANTHROPY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SPONSORSHIP (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); LABOR FORCE (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); TRENDS (73%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (72%); LIBRARIES (52%)

PERSON: GEORGE OSBORNE (58%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%); PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) ILE-DE-FRANCE, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (96%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



570 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Vows to Move Quickly on Temporary Legal Status for Haitian Immigrants in U.S.

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.; Julia Preston contributed reporting from New York.

DATELINE: MIAMI 

 BODY:
Clutching their passports and well-thumbed documents, hundreds of illegal Haitian immigrants crowded into a Roman Catholic church here on Wednesday to seek help in applying for a program that would allow them to stay and work legally in the United States for 18 months.
 Officials said they expected 100,000 to 200,000 Haitians who have been living illegally in the United States to take advantage of the offer from the Obama administration for temporary legal status. 
 Federal immigration officials met with dozens of community leaders and laid out plans to expedite the process and provide most illegal Haitian workers with documents, including work permits, within three months.
 Alejandro Mayorkas, the head of United States Citizenship and Immigration Services, said all the decisions on applications would be made ''with a generosity of spirit'' born of the humanitarian crisis created by last week's massive earthquake in Haiti. He made it plain that the administration's goal was to move as fast as possible to keep Haitians without criminal records in the United States and allow them to work so they can send money back to the devastated island.
 ''We are planning to move on a very fast track in recognition of the trauma people are enduring,'' Mr. Mayorkas said at a news conference here.
 The program gives any Haitian who was in this country on Jan. 12 -- the day of the earthquake -- the chance to live and work legally in the United States for 18 months under temporary protected status. Immigration officials made it clear they would push hard to get as many illegal Haitian immigrants to apply as possible and would not immediately move to deport people even if they did not qualify for the program.
 It is a huge effort to bring people out of the shadows that will fundamentally alter the lives of tens of thousands of families both in the United States and Haiti, allowing people who have labored in the informal economy to find better work and pursue studies.
 ''It's a great relief for the community,'' said the Rev. Reginald Jean-Mary, the pastor at the church, Notre Dame d'Haiti. ''Every day we have people come in who have been suffering, people unable to work and living in fear. It's bringing a sense of hope amid the big tragedy that we are living now.''
 Still, advocates for immigrants said the application process was cumbersome and expensive, with total fees amounting to $470. Immigrants must provide proof that they are indigent to qualify for a waiver.
 ''Many people may not have the financial capability to pay these fees and may end up not benefiting,'' said the president of the Haitian-American Grassroots Coalition in Miami, Jean Robert Lafortune.
 Immigrants seeking the temporary legal status face many other bureaucratic hurdles. They are asked to provide several documents many do not possess, like passports or national identity cards confirming that they are Haitian. They must also produce whatever documents they can muster to prove they were in this country at the time of the earthquake -- rental agreements, utility bills, student identity cards and sworn affidavits from friends and family members. And those with records of a criminal felony or two misdemeanors can be disqualified.
 At a public meeting in Miami on Wednesday, Mr. Mayorkas and other top immigration officials faced a welter of questions about people caught up in various stages of the immensely complicated game of trying to gain legal status. 
 How would people in immigration detention centers get money to apply for the temporary status? Should people with visas who want to stay longer apply? Can people who get the status go back to Haiti to help with relief efforts?
 In answering most questions, immigration officials avoided making blanket statements and said that they would review each application, taking individual circumstances into account. Addressing several hundred Haitian community leaders in New York, Andrea Quarantillo, the district director for Citizenship and Immigration Services, emphasized that Haitians who applied for the temporary status would not be questioned about whether they were now here legally. 
 ''Their current status is really of no interest to us,'' Ms. Quarantillo said. 
 Ms. Quarantillo added that immigration authorities would not rush to deport Haitians who apply but fail to qualify for the program, unless they were found to have committed serious crimes. 
 The immigration agency is accepting applications only by mail, in part to encourage illegal Haitian immigrants who are afraid to come to government offices.
 Many Haitians here are hopeful the temporary program will last beyond 18 months. Similar protected status programs for immigrants from Nicaragua, Honduras and El Salvador have been extended repeatedly. While the Haitian program also allows for the possibility of extensions, officials cautioned that no decision had been made.
 ''The past is not always an indicator of the future,'' Ms. Quarantillo said.
 Because many Haitians are poor and do not speak English, the charities and churches that provide legal advice to immigrants will be critical to the program's success. At Notre Dame d'Haiti, hundreds of Haitians stood in long lines waiting to be counseled by volunteer lawyers. The crush of people -- more than 800 -- was so large that the church gave them numbers and asked many to come back on Thursday, the day before the start of the program's six-month application period. 
 In the crowd were people battling against deportation orders that had already been issued. One, Bernex Beli, 34, who came to the United States 10 years ago on a boat with seven other illegal immigrants, married an American woman and has two children. He has survived on menial jobs, working on loading docks and washing cars in parking lots. But he wants to go to college and get a better job, something he cannot do without papers.
 ''If I get this status, it's not too late for me,'' he said. ''I have two sons. I don't want them to grow up like I grew up. Since I was born, nothing has gone right.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Deleranaeis Dolvin waited to speak with a counselor on Wednesday at the Notre Dame d'Haiti church in Miami.
 Sister Romanie Guillaume helping advise Haitian immigrants who came to the Roman Catholic church for information. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY OSCAR HIDALGO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); RELIGION (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); NATURAL DISASTERS (73%); EARTHQUAKES (73%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



571 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; IN THE GARDEN; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 2928 words

HEADLINE: Packets Full of Miracles

BYLINE: By MICHAEL TORTORELLO

 BODY:
HOW wrong can you go for $2.25? That's the price of a packet of 20 tomato seeds from Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds. The variety I'm considering is called Furry Yellow Hog, and the catalog copy suggests that it has citrus notes and a four o'clock shadow, two traits I have never associated with a tomato.
 Want to know more? That will not prove easy, because although there's a place for users to rate the Furry Yellow Hog seeds on the Baker Creek Web site, no one has yet done so. Which is understandable, given that the company sells 228 varieties of tomato.
 At some point, consumer choice begins to feel oppressive. It's not about the money: Who would compare the value of a bumper tomato crop with the cost of a single subway fare? The problem is risk. What if the germinating seeds never awaken from their dirt nap? Or what if the tomatoes thrive, but taste like Play-Doh? Two hundred and twenty-eight varieties and I wasted a whole summer on a dud? 
 Some gardeners revel in chance and the absurd abundance of botanical diversity. For the last few weeks, I've been calling them, looking for advice. Specifically, I asked these growers for thumbnail descriptions of a few favorite seeds.
 In some respects, it's a ridiculous time to think about planting, as I couldn't penetrate my frozen yard without explosives. But the season for seed shopping is right about now. Last year, Fedco, the Maine catalog from which I placed my order, had sold out of some popular seed varieties by mid-February, as had other sellers. (Could boutique seeds be America's next speculative bubble?)
 The seeds these seasoned gardeners recommended flourished in their yards. But that doesn't mean they'll do a blessed thing in yours and mine. It's hope that springs eternal, not seeds.
 Michele Owens
 ROOTS A founder of the Garden Rant blog (gardenrant.com), where gardeners mouth off with the zeal of sports radio barkers.
 HOME TURF A 15-acre weekend house in Salem, N.Y., riding up on the Vermont border. Her 36-by-52-foot vegetable patch, Ms. Owens said, backs up to white pines and wild nettles.
 SEEDS OF SUCCESS 
 Rosa Bianca eggplant While big, black eggplants sputter in Ms. Owens's northern climes, Rosa Bianca perseveres. Smallish and streaked lilac and white, the comely fruit has a ''melting texture,'' she said. Cook it, thinly sliced, under the broiler, drenched in olive oil and covered in sea salt.
 Blue Coco bean Ms. Owens loves this ''exceptionally beautiful'' pole bean for its violet-colored flowers, heart-shaped leaves and purple beans. They are ''absurdly productive,'' she added, and somehow taste like summer. They are ''just crisper, fresher -- green bean-ier.''
 Jarrahdale pumpkin During last year's freakish monsoon season, this blue-green pumpkin was a survivor. Its dense, creamy texture is ideal for pies, Ms. Owens said. And the pumpkin's thick walls help it to ''last and last'' in storage.
 Double Rose Peony poppy In Ms. Owens's experience, any variety of this ''spectacular'' opium relative will create hip-high stands of blue-green foliage with giant, succulent buds. ''Country wisdom is you take the seed and throw it out on the snow,'' she said. She favors the bare ground of a vegetable garden.
 Pineapple tomato Fist-size, yellow-red and a little watery, this is an ''exceptionally sweet'' tomato, Ms. Owens said. Roast and then skin the halved tomatoes, saute with ''ridiculous amounts of garlic'' and serve with fresh rosemary over pasta. ''I would rather eat that than caviar,'' she said.
 Rapa di Milano Colletto Viola turnip An Italian import, this Ping-Pong-ball-size turnip somehow adapted to ''the frigid bog I offer,'' Ms. Owens said. Beyond the table appeal of the root and the greens, this ''is one of the most beautiful plants I grow.''
 THE NEW GUY Ms. Owens is tempted by the so-called Cannibal tomato eggplant, which the Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds catalog describes as ''shockingly bitter.'' Deal closer: ''It was reportedly used to make sauce for cannibal meals.''
 NEVER AGAIN ''Can we just say watermelons are a constant heartbreak?'' Ms. Owens said. Yet two days later, by e-mail, she added: ''When it comes to my vegetable garden, I subscribe to the Winston Churchill philosophy: 'Never give in. Never, never, never, never -- in nothing, great or small.' ''
 SHOPPING BAG Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds (rareseeds.com); Fedco (fedcoseeds.com); High Mowing Organic Seeds (highmowingseeds.com); Seeds from Italy (growitalian.com).
 Holly Shimizu
 ROOTS Horticulturist and executive director of the United States Botanic Garden, on the National Mall in Washington.
 HOME TURF A quarter-acre yard in Glen Echo, Md., along with a container roof garden.
 SEEDS OF SUCCESS
 Brussels winter chervil Dark green and ferny-looking, this cool-weather herb tastes best raw, in soups or garnishes. ''I snatched some seed from a friend's garden,'' Ms. Shimizu said, ''threw them in'' containers and ''I've never been as happy.''
 Calendula officinalis The two-inch-wide yellow flowers on this medicinal plant look good enough to eat. Go ahead, Ms. Shimizu said. Tinctures and teas made from it are thought to soothe the skin. New types of calendula carry multiple flowers; Ms. Shimizu prefers the single-flowered, herbal variety.
 Holy basil Of the 20-odd basils Ms. Shimizu grows each year, she likes this fuzzy plant ''mostly for the fragrance.'' The name comes from its status as a sacred herb. ''If you travel in India,'' she said, ''you see it in a special tulsi container by the front door.''
 Nutmeg plant (Nigella sativa) Despite the name, it's not nutmeg. Ms. Shimizu is fond of the plant's pale, papery flowers. But the seeds -- small and black -- hold the real appeal. They taste of violet, she said, on top of breads, desserts and puddings.
 Moon vine (Ipmoea alba) This annual vine blooms in the evening, unfurling ''sparkling satin'' flowers that measure five inches across. Ms. Shimizu is particularly enchanted by the ''heavenly'' smell, which ''attracts beautiful garden moths'' through the night. She recommends soaking the hard seeds in hot water for better germination.
 Exotic Love vine (Mina lobata) Of course, Ms. Shimizu loves the name. She also loves the bicolored flowers, with their coral tips and ''creamy yellow'' insides, which can stick around as late as December. And she especially loves the swooning hummingbirds that come to call.
 THE NEW GUY Ms. Shimizu ordered Benary's Giant Deep Red zinnia as another hummingbird aphrodisiac. She'll be starting them on the windowsill, before moving them to containers on the ''very sunny edges'' of her porch.
 NEVER AGAIN After battling blights and replacing her soil, ''I have decided to give up growing tomatoes,'' she said.
 SHOPPING BAG Monticello (monticellocatalog.org); the Natural Gardening Company (naturalgardening.com); Renee's Garden (reneesgarden.com).
 Lis Thomas
 ROOTS Horticulturist, and outreach educator for GreenBridge, the community horticulture program of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
 HOME TURF Ms. Thomas shares a bedraggled Victorian with four housemates in the Kensington neighborhood of Brooklyn. The 24-by-40-foot garden plot is shady; the house hogs the southern sunlight. With five fervent gardeners digging around, it's also crowded.
 SEEDS OF SUCCESS 
 Bush Delicata squash In the spirit of so many city residents, this bush-shaped plant gets by in cramped quarters. Ms. Thomas builds a 4-by-4-foot cage for it out of scavenged wood. It's also resistant to powdery mildew, a common squash scourge.
 Black Krim tomato Unlike a lot of heftier heirlooms, this red-and-purple tomato couldn't be used as a medicine ball. Its relatively svelte profile means the fruit has ''more time to ripen on the vine,'' Ms. Thomas said, developing a full flavor before plunging to earth.
 Red Russian kale Start it in a cold frame, or sow it directly in March, and you can be eating baby greens by late April. Ms. Thomas likes to raise three successive crops of this loose-leafed kale. Even then, pests like the white fly don't seem to find it. Their loss.
 Glaskins Perpetual rhubarb Not for the impatient. In its first year, every part of the plant is poisonous. Looks a little frightful, too: Ms. Thomas likens rhubarb to ''a crazy pink monster'' emerging from the ground. The second season yields edible stalks, which Ms. Thomas plucks for jam or chutney.
 Tall meadow rue (Thalictrum pubescens) This white or lavender wildflower has the profile of a runway model -- six feet tall and wispy -- and the temperament to match. Ms. Thomas recommends starting the fickle seeds in a greenhouse, or in a plastic-wrapped egg carton, on top of a warm fridge.
 Showy goldenrod (Solidago speciosa) A late bloomer, goldenrod has deep yellow flower clusters that attract monarch butterflies on their long commute to Mexico. When they descend in late September, ''you'll see hundreds of monarchs,'' Ms. Thomas said. ''Which is a neat sight, especially here in the city.''
 THE NEW GUY With friends, Ms. Thomas has started growing mushrooms. A few weeks ago in a community garden in Bushwick, Brooklyn, she ''inoculated oak logs'' with mycelia (fungal filaments) to try to raise shiitakes.
 NEVER AGAIN ''I've been dreaming about starting watermelons for about 20 years,'' Ms. Thomas said. But with a plodding 120-day growing season, the melons seem to feed critters first. This year, at last, the nightmare ends.
 SHOPPING BAG Fedco (fedcoseeds.com); High Mowing Organic Seeds (highmowingseeds.com); Hudson Valley Seed Library (seedlibrary.org); Seeds of Change (seedsofchange.com); Territorial Seed Company (territorialseed.com).
 Josh Kirschenbaum
 ROOTS Product development director for Territorial Seed Company and Abundant Life Seeds. (All of Mr. Kirschenbaum's seed selections are widely available from other catalogs and sellers.)
 HOME TURF A 44-acre certified-organic trial garden in London Springs, Ore., a mild spot near Eugene with cool, dry summers.
 SEEDS OF SUCCESS
 Mokum carrot This cigar-shaped carrot has the ''sweetest flavor, the crunchiest texture,'' Mr. Kirschenbaum said. Not being terribly durable, this variety seldom turns up in the grocery, but it's widely adaptable to different growing regions, he said.
 Superschmelz kohlrabi Often, the edible bulbs of this cabbage cousin grow woody. Not the sweet, crispy Superschmelz, which also grows to extraterrestrial dimensions. Mr. Kirschenbaum has heard reliable reports of a 29-pound kohlrabi. If you see one bigger than that, bar the door.
 Gypsy pepper The Willamette Valley isn't pepper country. The cool nights inhibit yields, he said. Yet he has heard no complaints from the prolific Gypsy. Bullhorn-shaped, and chartreuse at first, this pepper sweetens as it turns orange, then red, like a toreador's cape.
 Sun Gold tomato ''I have tasted probably thousands and thousands of different varieties of tomatoes,'' Mr. Kirschenbaum said. Sun gold -- an orange-yellow cherry tomato -- is his favorite. It's resistant to a few common wilts, Fusarium and Verticillium. For a full flavor wallop, he said, eat it right off the vine, at the hottest hour.
 Violet Podded Stringless pole bean With purple vines and stems, and purple-veined leaves, this climbing bean has the visual drama of a good church hat. They are purple, too, Mr. Kirschenbaum said, until you steam them. Then, in a flash of magic, they turn green.
 King's High Scent sweet pea Mr. Kirschenbaum has plenty of gardening in his life, thank you, but this light lavender flower is one that he takes home from work. ''They are the best-smelling things I have ever smelled in my life,'' he said. He likes to trellis the climbing vines beneath his bedroom, then open the window when June's blooms roll in.
 THE NEW GUY The German butterball potato may not be a true seed. But Mr. Kirschenbaum hopes the yellow-fleshed heirloom variety will be the equivalent of a three-sport athlete: suited to bake, fry or mash.
 NEVER AGAIN Okra. It ''just likes a lot more heat than we can provide it,'' he said. ''If I'm lucky, I'll get one pod of okra per plant. I can imagine someone in Louisiana seeing that thing and laughing me out of the farm.''
 Pam Peirce
 ROOTS Author of ''Golden Gate Gardening'' and a horticulture teacher at the City College of San Francisco.
 HOME TURF Ms. Peirce's ''shady and foggy'' yard in San Francisco, overlooking the Bay, is given over to herbs and greens. She also tills a 100-square-foot plot in a community garden and grows a demonstration garden at the college.
 SEEDS OF SUCCESS
 Costata Romanesco summer squash Ms. Peirce praises this ridged and striped squash for the speed of its growth. At pollination, the zucchinis can be 6 to 8 inches long -- perhaps twice the typical early squash size. Yet they remain tender at a foot's length. Shred, add egg and flour, and fry for a genuine veggie burger.
 Juliet tomato Amid a ''depressing'' summer of blighted, blackened tomato plants, the Juliet hung on. ''The flavor wasn't remarkable,'' Ms. Peirce said of the two-inch-long tomato. ''But it sure did make a lot of fruit.''
 Yellow Garden cosmos The color of these daisy-shaped flowers is different from that of most cosmos: pale yellow instead of pink or white. And ''if you clip off the spent flowers,'' Ms. Peirce said, ''they'll bloom all summer.'' Like a vampire, they're tough to kill; unlike a vampire, they like full sunlight and a wooden stake.
 Lavatera trimestris (Silver Cup) ''Despite its name,'' Ms. Peirce said, the flower on this bushy sun-loving plant ''is bright pink.'' Lavatera Silver Cup makes a fine cutting flower, she added, with new buds opening as old ones fade.
 Dwarf morning glory, Blue Ensign Though it sprawls, and it doesn't do much in a vase, the long-lasting flowers are charmers, with bright blue petals, a yellow center and bands of white. ''There's something that's right,'' Ms. Peirce said. ''You look and you say, 'Yes, that's what a flower should be!' ''
 Alaska nasturtium The Victorians had a quirky affection for ball-shaped little plants like this one, Ms. Peirce said. The orange-and-yellow flowers are edible, as are the white variegated leaves, which she likes to arrange over greens in a fussy, decorative manner. ''You find yourself saying, 'I'm actually placing leaves face-up on the salad.' ''
 THE NEW GUY Ms. Peirce actually planted Millionaire eggplant last summer -- and then abandoned it in a gallon pot until early July. And yet, ''those darn things were setting fruits on my back porch,'' she said. This year, the eggplant will get a millionaire's berth.
 NEVER AGAIN Slow to germinate and slower to grow, blood-veined dock -- a kind of sorrel -- fully earned Ms. Peirce's contempt. More bitter than a banker without a bonus.
 SHOPPING BAG Bountiful Gardens (bountifulgardens.org); Kitazawa Seed Company (kitazawaseed.com); Native Seeds/Search (nativeseeds.org); Nichols Garden Nursery (nicholsgardennursery.com); Pinetree Garden Seeds (superseeds.com); Territorial Seed Company (territorialseed.com); Thompson & Morgan (thompson-morgan.com).
 Lora May Hall
 ROOTS Owner, Full Circle Gardening, a specialty gardening and consulting company in Los Angeles, and blogger for the urban homesteader site Homegrown Evolution (homegrownevolution.com).
 HOME TURF A dry, sloped lot in the Silver Lake section of Los Angeles.
 SEEDS OF SUCCESS
 New Zealand spinach ''It's not related to any edible plant that I know of,'' Ms. Hall said -- including spinach. That's a good thing, because few other greens thrive in Los Angeles dry heat like this low-growing ground cover, she said. Also unusual are the triangular seeds, which Ms. Hall compared with ''shark eggs.''
 Nero de Toscana kale Ms. Hall planted these seeds last October for the kale's dark, sweet greens. More than a year later, the indomitable plant stands four feet tall, she said, with ''a trunk a couple of inches around.'' Though kale is commonly cooked, Ms. Hall prefers it raw, with chopped apples.
 Red orach This leafy green will self-sow in temperate Los Angeles. ''If you don't cut the seed head off,'' she said, ''it will grow the next year. I like easy, lazy gardeners' tricks like that.''
 Sugar Ann snap pea How to cook this miniature pea? Ms. Hall has no idea. ''They never make it inside because they're my favorite plant to graze on,'' she said. It's perfect for pots, as this snap pea grows only to a foot and doesn't need trellising.
 Crimson California poppy ''I planted them in my front yard a few years ago as a kind of attempt to create a poppy field,'' Ms. Hall said. A few years later, that's exactly what she has. Passers-by gawk at the red-tipped flowers, which open in March, she said.
 Verbena bonariensis Heat tolerant and a thrifty sipper, this three-foot-high shrub has slender stems and purple flower clusters. An annual most places, it's a perennial in her yard.
 THE NEW GUY ''I'm interested in trying some greens that have red leaves, or maroon, or purple, just to make my vegetable garden more colorful,'' Ms. Hall said. She is hoping that red-leafed bok choy will do the trick.
 NEVER AGAIN Her purple sprouting broccoli claimed precious space for months while heads formed. Florets, when they arrived, were fibrous and decidedly ''not delicious.'' Six months later, she still seems peeved.
 SHOPPING BAG Baker Creek Heirloom Seeds (rareseeds.com); Botanical Interests (botanicalinterests.com); Johnny's Selected Seeds (johnnyseeds.com); Renee's Garden (reneesgarden.com); Seed Savers Exchange (seedsavers.org); Seeds from Italy (growitalian.com).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); RETAILERS (74%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (73%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (70%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



572 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1116 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Languages Fade In Class -- Except Chinese

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Thousands of public schools stopped teaching foreign languages in the last decade, according to a government-financed survey -- dismal news for a nation that needs more linguists to conduct its global business and diplomacy.
 But another contrary trend has educators and policy makers abuzz: a rush by schools in all parts of America to offer instruction in Chinese.
 Some schools are paying for Chinese classes on their own, but hundreds are getting some help. The Chinese government is sending teachers from China to schools all over the world -- and paying part of their salaries. 
 At a time of tight budgets, many American schools are finding that offer too good to refuse. 
 In Massillon, Ohio, south of Cleveland, Jackson High School started its Chinese program in the fall of 2007 with 20 students and now has 80, said Parthena Draggett, who directs Jackson's world languages department. 
 ''We were able to get a free Chinese teacher,'' she said. ''I'd like to start a Spanish program for elementary children, but we can't get a free Spanish teacher.'' 
 (Jackson's Chinese teacher is not free; the Chinese government pays part of his compensation, with the district paying the rest.)
 No one keeps an exact count, but rough calculations based on the government's survey suggest that perhaps 1,600 American public and private schools are teaching Chinese, up from 300 or so a decade ago. And the numbers are growing exponentially. 
 Among America's approximately 27,500 middle and high schools offering at least one foreign language, the proportion offering Chinese rose to 4 percent, from 1 percent, from 1997 to 2008, according to the survey, which was done by the Center for Applied Linguistics, a research group in Washington, and paid for by the federal Education Department.
 ''It's really changing the language education landscape of this country,'' said Nancy C. Rhodes, a director at the center and co-author of the survey.
 Other indicators point to the same trend. The number of students taking the Advanced Placement test in Chinese, introduced in 2007, has grown so fast that it is likely to pass German this year as the third most-tested A.P. language, after Spanish and French, said Trevor Packer, a vice president at the College Board. 
 ''We've all been surprised that in such a short time Chinese would grow to surpass A.P. German,'' Mr. Packer said.
 A decade ago, most of the schools with Chinese programs were on the East and West Coasts. But in recent years, many schools have started Chinese programs in heartland states, including Ohio and Illinois in the Midwest, Texas and Georgia in the South, and Colorado and Utah in the Rocky Mountain West.
 ''The mushrooming of interest we're seeing now is not in the heritage communities, but in places that don't have significant Chinese populations,'' said Chris Livaccari, an associate director at the Asia Society.
 America has had the study of a foreign language grow before, only to see the bubble burst. Many schools began teaching Japanese in the 1980s, after Japan emerged as an economic rival. But thousands have dropped the language, the survey found.
 Japanese is not the only language that has declined. Thousands of schools that offered French, German or Russian have stopped teaching those languages, too, the survey found. 
 To prepare the survey, the Center for Applied Linguistics sent a questionnaire to 5,000 American schools, and followed up with phone calls to 3,200 schools, getting a 76 percent response rate.
 The results, released last year, confirmed that Spanish was taught almost universally. The survey found that 88 percent of elementary schools and 93 percent of middle and high schools with language programs offered Spanish in 2008. 
 The overall decline in language instruction was mostly due to its abrupt decline in public elementary and middle schools; the number of private schools and public high schools offering at least one language remained stable from 1997 to 2008. 
 The survey said that a third of schools reported that the federal No Child Left Behind law, which since 2001 has required public schools to test students in math and English, had drawn resources from foreign languages.
 Experts said several factors were fueling the surge in Chinese. Parents, students and educators recognize China's emergence as an important country and believe that fluency in its language can open opportunities. 
 Also stoking the interest has been a joint program by the College Board and Hanban, a language council affiliated with the Chinese Education Ministry, that since 2006 has sent hundreds of American school superintendents and other educators to visit schools in China, with travel costs subsidized by Hanban. Many have started Chinese programs upon their return. 
 Since 2006, Hanban and the College Board have also sent more than 325 volunteer Chinese ''guest teachers'' to work in American schools with fledgling programs and paying $13,000 to subsidize each teacher's salary for a year. Teachers can then renew for up to three more years.
 The State Department has paid for a smaller program to bring Chinese teachers to schools here, with each staying for a year.
 In the first two years of its Chinese program, the Jackson District in Ohio said it had provided its guest teacher housing, a car and gasoline, health insurance and other support worth about $26,000. This year, the district is paying a more experienced Chinese guest teacher $49,910 in salary and other support, in addition to the $13,000 in travel expenses he receives from Hanban, bringing his compensation into rough parity with Ohio teachers.
 Ms. Draggett visited China recently with a Hanban-financed delegation of 400 American educators from 39 states, and she came back energized about Jackson's Chinese program, she said.
 ''Chinese is really taking root,'' she said. Starting this fall, Jackson High will begin phasing out its German program, she said.
 Founders of the Yu Ying charter school in Washington, where all classes for 200 students in prekindergarten through second grade are taught in Chinese and English on alternate days, did not start with a guest teacher when it opened in the fall of 2008.
 ''That's great for many schools, but we want our teachers to stay,'' said Mary Shaffner, the school's executive director.
 Instead, Yu Ying recruited five native Chinese speakers living in the United States by advertising on the Internet. One is Wang Jue, who immigrated to the United States in 2001 and graduated from the University of Maryland. 
 After just four months, her prekindergarten students can already say phrases like ''I want lunch'' and ''I'm angry'' in Chinese, Ms. Wang said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A second-grade class at the Yu Ying charter school in Washington, where instruction in all subjects alternates daily between English and Chinese.
 Experts attribute the surge in Chinese language classes to parents' belief that fluency can open opportunities down the road. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRENDAN HOFFMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Growth in Chinese Language Courses: Despite an overall decrease in foreign language instruction in American schools, more middle and high schools are offering classes in Chinese, according to a national survey. (Source: Center for Applied Linguistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (93%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LINGUISTICS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); TRENDS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); APPLIED LINGUISTICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); ADVANCED PLACEMENT PROGRAMS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MOUNTAINS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTER FOR APPLIED LINGUISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (92%); WEST USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



573 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1594 words

HEADLINE: Children Speak For Same-Sex Marriage

BYLINE: By SARAH WILDMAN

 BODY:
LAST month, advocates and opponents of same-sex marriage packed the New Jersey State House in Trenton, supporters in blue, opponents in red. Near the end of the day, Kasey Nicholson-McFadden took the microphone. ''It doesn't bother me to tell kids my parents are gay,'' he said in a clear voice. ''It does bother me to say they aren't married. It makes me feel that our family is less than their family.'' 
 Kasey is 10 years old. When the New Jersey State Senate voted against same-sex marriage on Jan. 7, he was devastated. ''We tried to buoy him and say, 'It's another step in the process and it's not over yet,' '' said Karen Nicholson-McFadden, one of Kasey's mothers.
 In fact, Garden State Equality, the New Jersey gay-rights organization that invited Kasey to speak, quickly told reporters they would pursue the issue through the judiciary system. It will be familiar territory for the Nicholson-McFaddens, who vow to press on -- be it through rallies or lawsuits. 
 For as long as Kasey can remember, Marcye and Karen Nicholson-McFadden have been petitioning the State of New Jersey for the right to marry. So while much of Kasey's free time is spent on typical preteen activities -- in-line skating, swim team and soccer practice -- some of it is spent appearing in advertising campaigns and events organized by Garden State Equality. So many of that organization's 64,000 members have children that the group provides day care and activities for teenagers during its events. 
 In 2008 about 116,000 same-sex couples across the country were raising a total of about 250,000 children under age 18, according to an analysis of Census data by Gary J. Gates, a demographer of the gay and lesbian population at the Williams Institute at the University of California, Los Angeles, law school. 
 While opponents of same-sex marriage worry that schools will teach that gay and straight relationships are equal, many supporters focus on a different, but still child-centered, issue: What about the children now being raised in families headed by gay men and lesbians? How does the lack of marriage benefits for their parents affect them?
 In recent years, an increasing number of these children -- ranging in age from 10 to nearly 40 -- have taken active roles in campaigns organized by Colage (formerly known as Children of Lesbians and Gays Everywhere), and civil rights groups like Lambda Legal and Glad (Gay and Lesbian Advocates and Defenders). Their involvement is helping to change the narrative of same-sex marriage to a story about families from one about couples. 
 With 31 states having rejected same-sex marriage -- most recently in Maine, New Jersey and New York -- strategies used by supporters now include projecting a mainstream family image in public opinion campaigns surrounding court battles like the challenge to Proposition 8, the ballot measure that reversed marriage rights for same-sex couples in California. Many gay rights activists think that hearing articulate children of same-sex parents ask why their families should have fewer rights than their neighbors goes a long way toward turning the family values argument on its head. Last week, Chiah Connolly-Ingram, 21, the daughter of a lesbian couple, helped close the rally outside the Federal Courthouse in San Francisco, where Proposition 8 is being challenged. ''As the daughter of lesbian moms, I know that children are affected by this decision,'' said Ms. Connolly-Ingram, a student at City College of San Francisco and an intern at Colage.
 Zach Wahls, a freshman at the University of Iowa whose mothers married this summer in Iowa, one of the few states where same-sex marriage is legal, said in a recent interview: ''At the end of the day, it's really about separate but equal. This isn't just about lesbian and gay, it's about tolerance and acceptance.'' 
 Evan Wolfson, executive director of Freedom to Marry, a New York-based organization that advocates for legalized same-sex marriage, said: ''There is no good reason to punish children raised by gay parents by denying parents marriage and its protections. It harms kids rather than helping them.'' 
 Opponents of same-sex marriage are unswayed. ''It doesn't make any sense that a small segment of society can leverage major social change simply by putting children into these situations purposefully,'' said Andrew P. Pugno, general counsel for ProtectMarriage.com, the California organization that sponsored Proposition 8. ''Society is not forcing same-sex couples to raise children. If they are going to exercise their choice, it remains their choice and not become something that society has to realign itself to accept.'' 
 Mr. Pugno's position is shared by others. ''The real question is whether same-sex relationships benefit children to the same extent that living with a married mother and father does, and we believe they do not,'' said Peter S. Sprigg, senior fellow for policy studies at the Family Research Council, the conservative Christian organization. ''Children do best when raised by their own biological mother and father who are committed to one another in a lifelong marriage.''
 Gay rights activists challenge that claim, citing support from the American Academy of Pediatrics and the American Medical Association, among other organizations.
 The debate over same-sex parenting was central in Iowa, where the State Supreme Court ruled last April that a state law limiting marriage to a man and a woman was unconstitutional, in a suit filed by same-sex couples against the Polk County recorder. ''The defendant made children the center of its argument,'' said Camilla Taylor, the lead lawyer for Lambda Legal, which argued the case. ''There are many reasons why the purpose of the marriage ban has nothing to do with child welfare,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''But since the defendant was claiming that the purpose of marriage law was to protect the children of heterosexual parents, we wanted the defendant to have to answer why the children of same-sex parents are any less deserving of protection and support.'' 
 Lambda Legal approached each of the plaintiffs with children and asked the families if the children themselves would sign on as co-plaintiffs. The move appears to have shifted both public and court opinion. ''What I did, it wasn't just for my family, it was for a ton of families,'' said McKinley BarbouRoske, now 12, who, along with her sister, Breeanna, was a co-plaintiff in the suit filed by her mothers, Jen and Dawn BarbouRoske. 
 Observers of the movement away from failed ballot initiatives and toward courtrooms say child welfare and parenting will again be central to court battles because the argument over same-sex marriage often swirls around questions of whether changing the definition of marriage has an impact on children. In California, the legal team challenging Proposition 8 has called upon psychologists, historians and social scientists to testify on their behalf, a tactic that worked well for supporters of same-sex marriage in Iowa. Meredith Fenton, 33, the daughter of a lesbian and, until recently, the program director at Colage, said that when marriage equality entered into the public debate, ''those of us who have lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgendered parents realized that, at root, one of the things debated is us.'' Many organizers, including Ms. Fenton, say the absence of children's voices during statewide ballot initiatives and court fights was a mistake.
 That's not to say that there is a uniformity of opinion among children of same-sex parents. Some question the funneling of money and resources into the marriage battle. 
 ''We grew up recognizing our families as families whether or not the government did, and we're frustrated by the suggestion that we should have to make our families look like straight ones in order to be considered a valid family by the government,'' Martha Jane Kaufman, a playwright and teacher in New York, and Katie Miles, a graduate student at Columbia University, wrote in an e-mail response to questions about their blog, Queer Kids of Queer Parents Against Gay Marriage! ''From our point of view, marriage is an institution that contributes to the privatization of social services like health-care and immigration rights that actually should be guaranteed basic rights for all human beings,'' they wrote. 
 Since Ms. Kaufman and Ms. Miles put up their blog, a number of other children from gay and lesbian homes have come forward saying that marriage would not have helped their families. ''From a legal standpoint I totally understand why the marriage equality debate has taken center stage for families,'' said Danielle Silber, the volunteer coordinator for Colage in New York City. ''It seems like an easy quick way to gain legal recognition and social validation for the normalcy and legitimacy of our families.
 ''That said, for so many of our families, marriage equality doesn't really apply and wouldn't open rights or protections.'' 
 Ms. Silber's own family, with two mothers and two fathers who broke up and repartnered or remained single, would not have benefited, she said.
 Abigail Garner, 37, whose blog, Families Like Mine and 2004 book of the same title addressed the voices of children from same-sex families, is also wary. ''If we are seeing marriage as a way to access health care, where does that leave people who are currently unemployed or who are single?'' she asked. ''We need to look at things marriage gives people and ask why that is conditional on being a couple.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: YOUTH MOVEMENT: Dawn Berg and her son A. J., 5, in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK RALSON/GETTY IMAGES)(E1)
GOING PUBLIC: Above, Karen, Kasey and Marcye Nicholson-McFadden at the State House in New Jersey. Right, the BarbouRoske family in Iowa: Jen, Breeanna, Dawn and McKinley. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MATTHEW HOLST/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAYS & LESBIANS (93%); MARRIAGE (93%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GAY PARENTING (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (89%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); LGBT RIGHTS (78%); COHABITATION (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); PETITIONS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); SOCCER (69%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (67%); LAWYERS (67%); LAW SCHOOLS (66%); CENSUS (65%); SWIMMING (65%); SPORTS (65%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (64%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (61%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (85%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



574 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 647 words

HEADLINE: China Posts Strong Growth for Quarter

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China said on Thursday that its economy rose by 10.7 percent in fourth quarter compared with a year ago, as the country continued to surge forward even as many other nations are still trying to punch through the global recession. That was up from a revised growth rate of 9.1 percent in the third quarter.
 Over the whole year, the Chinese gross domestic product grew 8.7 percent, surpassing the 8 percent growth-rate benchmark that Chinese leaders assert is necessary to maintain social stability. If China keeps up that growth rate, it will very likely replace Japan as the world's second-largest economy by the end of this year. 
 The National Bureau of Statistics also announced on Thursday that industrial production in December increased by 18.5 percent and retail sales rose by 17.5 percent. The December consumer price index grew by 1.9 percent and producer price index by 1.7 percent.
 The numbers were generally in line with earlier predictions. 
 Chinese officials are clearly worried about inflation and bubbles, especially in real estate, but the latest economic statistics will no doubt drive the triumphant tone of recent official pronouncements on the Chinese economy. 
 Much of that commentary has emphasized the contrast between China's relatively successful weathering of the global recession and the severe downturn that still afflicts Western economies, including the United States. 
 A front-page signed editorial on Jan. 5 in the People's Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Communist Party, praised the party for its far-sighted economic policies and lauded the Chinese economic model.
 ''When the financial crisis forced the neoliberal economic system into a dead end, the shortcomings of the capitalist system were exposed for all to see,'' the editorial said. ''But a China that was pushed to a crossroads proved its 'national capabilities' in taking on a crisis by answering with the advantage of the socialist system with Chinese characteristics.''
 Economic numbers released on Thursday also showed China's export industry was still responsible for much of its growth. Some Chinese economists have said China must restructure its economy so that it begins to rely more on domestic consumption and less on exports, which are greatly affected by the overall health of the world economy.
 Chinese officials remain concerned about inflation, excessive bank lending and loan defaults. In recent weeks, they have acted on several fronts to address those issues.
 On Jan. 7, the central bank raised a key interest rate, the first time it had done so in nearly five months. Five days later, regulators ordered state-owned banks to set aside a larger share of their deposits as reserves against failed loans. Investors and analysts had not expected such a move until the second quarter of this year.
 On Wednesday, Bank of China ordered its credit officials to halt any new renminbi loans in an attempt to curb overheated fast lending growth in the first few weeks of this month. 
 Economists said China would move to further tighten bank lending to confront inflationary fears and swelling asset bubbles.
 ''The first half of 2010 is likely to be characterized by gradual policy tightening, chiefly through administrative measures,'' Jing Ulrich, director of the China equities and commodities division of J. P. Morgan in Hong Kong, wrote in a report on Thursday. ''Concerns about capital inflows and the health of the export sector will limit the scope for interest rate tightening, but we do expect to see a moderation in new bank loans and the use of reserve requirements to manage the volume of money supply.''
 Other countries, especially the United States, have also said the artificially low value of the renminbi gives China an unfair advantage in exports, and governments will most likely press China much harder this year to strengthen its currency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cranes in Shenyang, China. The country's consumer price index and producer price index both grew in line with expectations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMPTION (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); STATISTICS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANKING IN CHINA (69%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); RETAIL SALES (54%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (50%)

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (50%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (59%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



575 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ANALYSIS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Restoring the Sheen to the Hope Classic

BYLINE: By LARRY DORMAN

DATELINE: LA QUINTA, Calif. 

 BODY:
The history of the Bob Hope Classic is not so much written as engraved, and time has rendered even larger the outsized characters who have peopled it. From the time Arnold Palmer shot 22-under-par to win the first event in 1960, the Hope has been on a 50-year run that, for the most part, has glittered like a clear night in the desert.
 But when pro and amateur names from the past -- Palmer and Dwight D. Eisenhower, Jack Nicklaus and Frank Sinatra -- loom so large they eclipse the present, an event can suffer by comparison. Throw in the lure of huge foreign appearance payoffs combined with comfort-inducing PGA Tour purses, and the allure of playing five-hour rounds for five days in the desert can fade. 
 In its 51st year, the Bob Hope Classic is at a crossroads. None of the top 25 players in the world rankings are here. The Canadian Mike Weir, at No. 27, is the highest-ranked participant. As the only tournament left on the PGA Tour with a five-day pro-am contested on four different courses, the Hope also is the only one without a title sponsor.
 Although the $5 million purse is being underwritten by the tournament, with augmenting from the PGA Tour reserve and some smaller sponsors, there are concerns about the future. Earlier this week, Commissioner Tim Finchem sought to allay those concerns with a strong signal that the tour is not going to allow the Hope to fail.
 ''I think as long as the economy maintains where it is, maybe ticks up a little bit, I think the prospects are very good,'' Finchem said. ''The Hope is -- the Hope has a long history with the PGA Tour. It's got a great charitable relationship with the Eisenhower Medical Center. It's raised millions and millions of dollars for that complex.
 ''It is a terrific experience for amateurs, that we all know. We have a group of our own customers we're hosting there this week. And it's performed well in the marketplace. So I'm very bullish about it for next year.'' 
 Still, to restore the Hope to its former glory, more than a title sponsor will be required. The professional and amateur star power that drove TV ratings and attendance for the first 40 years may never return to the level it enjoyed when three former United States presidents played in the 1990 pro-am. But both sides will need a significant boost from this year's levels.
 It is not often that a longtime tournament director goes public with complaints about the number of players missing from his field, as the Hope tournament director Michael Milthorpe did this week in an interview with Golf World.
 Noting that 8 of the top 14 players in the world -- including the local star Anthony Kim -- chose the Abu Dhabi Golf Championship in the United Arab Emirates over the Hope, Milthorpe suggested the tour suspend giving releases that allow members to play events opposite those on tour.
 ''I'd personally like to see the tour do a moratorium on them, until things pick up,'' Milthorpe said. ''Support our events here.''
 Such a move would not be well received by most players, who are independent contractors who value their autonomy. Last year when Finchem asked tour members to consider giving tournament sponsors more value by adding events they did not usually have on their schedule, some indicated they would. But few have.
 The Hope has plenty to draw on. Its volunteer base is among the most stable on the tour, and has drawn more than 100,000 people to donate their time to the tournament through the years. Recent indications are that a tweaking of the five-day, four-course format -- previously unthinkable -- is not outside the realm of possibility.
 To draw a few of the top-10 players, which would increase the tournament's chances of drawing a larger group of A-list celebrities, it may have to consider reducing its unique 90-hole format to 72 and cutting its four-course rotation to three. 
 And it will need to hope, fervently, that more PGA Tour players adopt the attitude of last week's winner. Ryan Palmer, the 33-year-old whose victory at the Sony Open was the third of his career, has been asked this week if he is any kin to the man whose legend began and grew here back in the '60s and '70s.
 He tells them he is not, but he does share some of the views of Arnold Palmer, who sometimes jokingly calls him ''cuz'' when they see one another at Palmer's Bay Hill Club in Orlando, Fla. He is a firm believer that more of his peers need to think about supporting the tour events that need the help.
 ''This tour needs to be your focus if you're a full-time player,'' Palmer said. ''I guess a lot of guys do that Race for Dubai is the reason they go over there, which, that's great. I don't think -- I wouldn't give up tournaments that I love playing, enjoy playing to go over there and play.''
 There are a few other golfers out there like Ryan Palmer. There is a good chance they will make themselves known here this week. Because, in the end, there is very little that separates a PGA Tour star from a player known only to a few family, friends and sponsors.
 Last year, Kenny Perry was fifth on the tour in earnings with $4.4 million. Just a few years ago, he was just a nice journeyman player. This year he decided to go to Abu Dhabi for the appearance money. All that separates Perry from Heath Slocum, the No. 32 player on the money list -- and one of the early leaders at the Bob Hope after a round of 66 -- is one stroke per round.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shane Bertsch shot a 62 at the Nicklaus Private Course at PGA West to lead the Hope Classic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN DUNN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (90%); AMATEUR SPORTS (89%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (88%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



576 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Annual Poll Of Freshmen Shows Effect Of Recession

BYLINE: By KATE ZERNIKE

 BODY:
The recession hit this year's college freshmen hard, affecting how they chose a school as well as their ability to pay for it, according to an annual nationwide survey released Thursday.
 Over all, students were more likely than previous freshmen to have a parent who was unemployed and less likely to have found a job that might help pay for college.
 About two-thirds of incoming students said they had ''some'' or ''major'' concern about their ability to pay for their education. The percentage of those with ''some'' concern -- 55.4 -- was at its highest level since 1971. 
 The number of students taking out loans was at its highest in nine years, at 53.3 percent.
 ''We expected that, given what we were seeing last year in the economy, we would see some significant changes in how finances were impacting people's ability to pay,'' said John H. Pryor, director of the Cooperative Institutional Research Program at the University of California, Los Angeles, which conducts the survey. 
 ''What was more surprising,'' he said, ''was that it goes beyond just that into other areas. Everywhere we turned, whether it was how you chose your college or what do you think you are going to do in college, everywhere the finances piece popped out.''
 The survey, which has been conducted for 44 years, asked about 220,000 incoming students at 297 campuses questions on everything from beer drinking habits and religious and political preferences to anticipated major and life goals. The answers were weighted to represent the 1.4 million full-time first-year students who entered 1,555 colleges and universities nationwide in the fall of 2009. (Each percentage point in the survey reflects the experience of roughly 14,000 students.)
 When the survey was done in 2008, as the recession was deepening, researchers were somewhat surprised that the percentage of students taking out loans had not shifted appreciably. That changed this year, with the percentage climbing 3.9 points.
 Students reported fewer resources to draw on. The number whose fathers were unemployed -- 4.5 percent -- was the highest in the history of the survey. The number of students whose mothers were unemployed was higher -- 7.9 percent -- and at its highest since 1979. 
 Fewer students reported working as high school seniors -- 62.8 percent reported having a job, down from 66.4 percent in 2008 and 69.3 percent in 2007. ''What all this points to is that they are going to be graduating with a larger debt burden than students in the past,'' Mr. Pryor said.
 Students were more likely than ever before to weigh financial factors in choosing a college: 41.6 percent of students reported that the cost of their school was a ''very important'' reason for choosing it, the highest number since the survey asked the question. And 44.7 percent said that an offer of financial aid from the school had been a very important reason for attending, up from 39.4 percent in 2007. 
 About 9 percent of students said they chose their college because their first choice did not offer them financial aid -- the highest since that question was asked in 1984.
 And students seemed acutely aware of value when choosing a college. The factor most often cited for choosing a school was that its graduates got good jobs -- 56.5 percent said this was ''very important,'' the highest rate since the question was asked in 1985. 
 However, their ideas on where the good jobs are may be changing: the number of students saying they expected a career in business had dropped to 12.1 percent, the lowest since 1976.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



577 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; FROM THE READERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Jubilation and Frustration

 BODY:
Readers reacted Wednesday to news of Scott Brown's upset win in the Massachusetts Senate race. A sampling of their comments: 
 ''Bay Staters shot themselves in the foot last night, as well as the rest of our fellow citizens, except we have the insurance to pay for our wounds. The rest of you in the other 49 states who have no insurance coverage, well, you'll have to limp.''Blueroses 
 ''Democrats, you have totally bungled much-needed health care reform. ... Please focus on restarting the economy now, as F.D.R. did first in 1933, and then come back with a simpler health care proposal.'' Centrist
 ''Brown has been clear that he supports some kind of federal health insurance reform effort, but he doesn't want one that is going to punish Massachusetts for having initiated its own reform already. Federal subsidies are relatively insignificant compared to the massive mandates on states.''blert ''You know that feeling when you're the passenger in a car and you think the driver is going too fast? You press your foot to the floor like you're braking. That's what happened last night.'' GF
 ''As a Mass voter, I can say that a lot of the frustration here was that we already have near universal health coverage. Why would we support a plan that would take away the option to buy a better health plan, outlaw health care savings accounts, and would make Mass taxpayers subsidize the rest of the nation -- especially when we pay the highest rates in the nation?'' RED
 ''Yes, thank you Massachusetts. I guess universal health care is only good enough for you. ... And thanks mostly to Democrats in Washington who gave away the public option before any negotiations even began. With leadership like that the 'loyal opposition' hardly needs to roll out of bed in the morning. Ronnie X ''Why is it that when the G.O.P. had 51 senators, they rammed through everything they darned well pleased, and yet even with a sizeable majority the Dems are still hemming and hawing?'' Stanley
 ''Thank You Massachusetts! ... My next vacation goes to your state -- I'll gladly spend some $$ in the home of true patriots.'' Rob 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (88%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (77%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (75%); INSURANCE (72%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (55%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



578 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Home Construction Declined Sharply in December

BYLINE: By JAVIER C. HERNANDEZ

 BODY:
Home construction slowed more than expected in December, the government said on Wednesday, as high unemployment made builders nervous about the demand for new homes. Still, there were signs that future construction might pick up, helped by the lure of a government tax credit.
 Builders broke ground on homes at a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 557,000 units in December, down 4 percent from November. Economists attributed much of the decline, which was concentrated in single-family homes, to unusually cold and wet weather last month in some regions of the country. They said weak demand from consumers, who remain reluctant to take on mortgages, also played a role. 
 Analysts expect construction to steadily increase through the first part of 2010. Building permits -- an indicator of future construction -- rose 10.9 percent in December, to an annual rate of 653,000, the highest level in a year. That far outpaced expectations, and it followed a 6.9 percent increase in November.
 The surge indicated that builders are expecting a tax credit for first-time home buyers, which expires on April 30, to help drive demand in the coming months.
 ''We're on the way to recovery,'' said Patrick Newport, an economist for IHS Global Insight. ''We can expect to see sustained increases and the pace picking up over the course of the year.''
 Yet the market for homes remains extraordinarily feeble. Construction levels are about 75 percent lower than their highs in 2006, prices are deteriorating in many cities and high unemployment will probably continue to temper demand. 
 Those dreary conditions were underscored when December's data was compared with the previous year: the pace of construction climbed only 0.2 percent. 
 In December, construction of apartment complexes showed signs of life, climbing 12.2 percent from November, to an annual rate of 101,000. Apartment construction has reached record lows amid a broader crisis in commercial real estate. Builders were struggling to secure loans for large residential projects, which banks consider risky. In addition, demand for rented space has weakened as families move in together to save money.
 Assuming the recovery does not falter, home construction is expected to rise as inventories dwindle and consumers grow more confident about making large purchases. The government's credit for first-time home buyers has helped prop up sales, but prices remain stubbornly low.
 A separate report released on Wednesday showed that inflation appeared to be tame in the United States. Producer prices increased slightly in December, up 0.2 percent from November, as a drop in energy prices offset a rise in food prices. A measure of prices that excludes volatile food and energy was flat.
 Economists generally agree that inflation will not emerge as a serious threat in the near term, but some are concerned about pockets of price increases. Food prices, for instance, were a central contributor to a 4.4 percent rise in producer prices in 2009. 
 In December, food prices were up 1.4 percent. That increase was probably not a result of unusual weather -- higher prices were mostly in meat and dairy, rather than in fruits and vegetables. 
 ''The current pick-up in headline inflation, although only likely to be temporary, is another drag on real incomes,'' researchers at Capital Economics wrote in a note on Wednesday.
 A report on consumer prices released last week showed a similar pattern: prices on a wide variety of goods were up only slightly in December. Taken together, the reports suggested that the Fed was unlikely to change interest rates anytime soon. It is scheduled to meet next week.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Housing Construction: New private housing starts and permits authorized during the month, at a seasonally adjusted annual pace. (Source: Commerce Department)
 Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); STATISTICS (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (83%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); FOOD PRICES (76%); PRODUCER PRICES (76%); FAMILY (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (73%); BUILDING PERMITS (73%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



579 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE SHAFT'; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Mining Frail Aspirations in Rural China

BYLINE: By JEANNETTE CATSOULIS

 BODY:
The first feature from the young Chinese director Zhang Chi, ''The Shaft'' (''Dixia de Tiankong'') feels as though it were made by a very old soul. Tight and tender, this small family drama is so visually expressive that listening is always subordinate to looking. 
 Set in a tiny coal-mining town in western China and arranged in three distinct segments, the film -- which the Museum of Modern Art is showing as part of the touring exhibition, Global Lens 2010 -- opens as a pretty young woman (Zheng Luoqian) is suspected of sleeping with her boss and takes refuge in an arranged marriage in Beijing. The second segment follows her unemployed brother (Huang Xuan), an aspiring singer, and his efforts to avoid the grip of the mine he detests. And in the final story their elderly father (Luo Deyuan) uses his retirement to pursue his own long-held dream.
 Tackling major issues -- the country's catastrophic shortage of women, the improbability of economic rescue -- in a minor key, ''The Shaft'' is a triptych of imprisoned desire. Lovers meet in abandoned buildings and on stone stairways, separated from each other by door frames and handrails. Miners cram into descending cages, their progress captured by security cameras. Occasionally the gray-brown countryside softens with milky light or flares with sudden, hopeful color; but the bright hues of a Beijing taxi are a cruel tease. The film's concluding, poignant image suggests that for some, escape comes only after a lifetime of self-denial and repetitive motion.
 THE SHAFT (DIXIA DE TIANKONG)
 Opens on Thursday in Manhattan. 
 Written, directed and edited by Zhang Chi; director of photography, Liu Shumin; music by Guo Sida; produced by Hu Guipu, Kang Jianmin, Xu Bailin, Tao Xingrui, Liu Xiuwen, Zhang Daogang, Wang Yijie, Liu Xinglun and Guo Sai; released by the Global Film Initiative. At the Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, Museum of Modern Art. In Mandarin, with English subtitles. Running time: 1 hour 38 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Luo Deyuan (Ding Baogen), Li Chen (Song Daming), Zheng Luoqian (Ding Jingshui) and Huang Xuan (Ding Jingshen). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A scene from ''The Shaft'' (''Dixia de Tiankong''), written and directed by Zhang Chi. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GLOBAL FILM INITIATIVE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); WOMEN (77%); EXHIBITIONS (76%); CINEMATOGRAPHY (76%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); SENIOR CITIZENS (72%); MARRIAGE (72%); COAL MINING (71%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (72%)

TITLE: The Shaft (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



580 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1169 words

HEADLINE: Architect, or Whatever

BYLINE: By KRISTINA SHEVORY

 BODY:
AT the Ballard Farmers' Market in Seattle on a recent weekend, passers-by could be forgiven for thinking John Morefield was running for political office. Smiling, waving and calling out hellos to everyone who walked by his stand, he was the picture of friendliness. All he needed was campaign buttons and fliers.
 In fact, Mr. Morefield, 29, is no politician, but an architectural designer looking for work. He was seated at a homemade wooden stand under a sign reading ''Architecture 5[#x203a],'' with a tin can nearby awaiting spare change. For a nickel, he would answer any architectural question.
 In 2008, Mr. Morefield lost his job -- twice -- and thought he could ride out the recession doing design work for friends and family, but when those jobs dried up, he set up his stand. As someone in his 20s without many contacts or an extensive portfolio, he thought he might have an easier time finding clients on his own. 
 ''I didn't know what I was going to do,'' Mr. Morefield said. ''I had no other option. The recession was a real kick in the shorts, and I had to make this work.''
 A troubled economy and the implosion of the real estate market have thrown thousands of architects and designers out of work in the last year or so, forcing them to find or create jobs. According to the latest data available from the Department of Labor, employment at American architecture firms, which peaked last July at 224,500, had dropped to 184,600 by November.
 ''It's hard to find a place to hide when the economy goes down,'' said Kermit Baker, the chief economist at the American Institute of Architects. ''There aren't any strong sectors now.''
 And it's not clear when the industry will recover. Architecture firms are still laying off employees, and Mr. Baker doesn't expect them to rehire until billings recover, which he thinks won't be until the second half of this year at the earliest.
 In the meantime, many of those who have been laid off are discovering new talents often unrelated to architecture.
 When Natasha Case, 26, lost her job as a designer at Walt Disney Imagineering about a year ago, she and her friend Freya Estreller, 27, a real estate developer, started a business selling Ms. Case's homemade ice cream sandwiches in Los Angeles. Named for architects like Frank Gehry (the strawberry ice cream and sugar cookie Frank Behry) and Mies van der Rohe (the vanilla bean ice cream and chocolate chip cookie Mies Vanilla Rohe), they were an immediate hit.
 ''I feel this is a good time to try new things,'' said Ms. Case, who did a project on the intersection of food and architecture while studying for her master's in architecture at the University of California, Los Angeles, in 2008. ''You do things you always wanted to do, something you've always been passionate about.''
 Since she and Ms. Estreller rolled out their truck, Coolhaus, at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival near Palm Springs last April, they've catered events for Mr. Gehry's office, Walt Disney Imagineering and the Disney Channel. 
 Their initial investment was low: they bought a 20-year-old postal van on Craigslist and had it retrofitted and painted silver and bubblegum pink, all for $10,000. With seven full- and part-time employees, they now make enough to support themselves and have plans to expand (a Hamptons truck is in the works and they are trying to get their products into Whole Foods stores).
 Leigh Ann Black was working as an architectural designer in Seattle when she lost her job over a year ago. After a long struggle to find work, she finally moved back to her hometown of Water Valley, Miss., in June, to take care of her sick grandmother.
 Ms. Black, 30, is now living above her parents' garage, but she finally has time to indulge her love of pottery. She recently converted an old horse barn on her family's farm into a studio, plans to apprentice with local potters and has applied to several post-baccalaureate ceramics programs, with the hope of selling her wares at farmers' markets and someday teaching art.
 ''This is not where I imagined I'd be when I turned 30, but I feel really inspired being back,'' she said. ''There's something about being with family and not feeling upset about meeting rent, car payment and groceries every month. Now I have some breathing room.''
 When Debi van Zyl, 33, was laid off by a small residential design firm in Los Angeles in May, she decided to do freelance design work for as long as she could, and she picked up jobs doing exhibition design for the Getty and Huntington museums. In her spare time, to relax, she started knitting what she describes as ''kooky'' stuffed animals like octopuses and jellyfish. Then, at the urging of the readers of her blog, she began selling them on Etsy. Les Petites Betes Sauvages, as she calls them, have helped her pay the rent and other bills for the last few months.
 ''You think you're in charge of your profession, and then the recession hits and you realize that your career is market driven,'' Ms. van Zyl said. ''It's forced me to push myself and become more individual. My motto is don't say no to anything.''
 Richard Chuk, of Lombard, Ill., said that since he lost his position as a commercial designer a year ago, when two of his firm's clients -- both developers -- lost financing for their projects, he has been looking for any job he can find to support his wife and children, ages 6 and 7.
 Mr. Chuk, 38, began his job search in a good mood because of the wave of optimism surrounding the presidential election. During the first three months, he sent out nearly 150 resumes, applying for many jobs he was overqualified for. (Sears, Home Depot and Lowe's all turned him down for jobs as a designer because he was overqualified, he said.) He had only one interview.
 After that, he said, he applied for the rare job that popped up but spent most of his time taking care of his children, studying for his architectural licensing exam and renovating his basement.
 This month, he began commercial truck driving school.
 ''You feel this year of your life is gone,'' Mr. Chuk said. ''It's lost wages and lost experiences. But you have to keep positive and move forward. I look at this as an education. It opens up more doors and you never know when it'll help you.'' 
 As for Mr. Morefield, the architect in Seattle, he started his booth (and a Web site, architecture5cents.com) with the hope that it would bring in sufficient income to get by until he could find another job. As it turned out, he received so many commissions -- to build a two-story addition, a deck, a master bedroom -- that he realized he could make plenty of money working for himself.
 Last year, he made more than $50,000 -- the highest salary he ever made working for someone else -- and he expects to do even better this year. 
 ''It's developed into what I was supposed to do,'' he said. ''It's a lot of work, it's scary, but I love every minute of it. If someone offered me $80,000 to sit behind a computer, I wouldn't do it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: BARGAIN BASEMENT: John Morefield is one of thousands of unemployed designers who are reinventing themselves. Last year, he put up a booth at a farmers' market in Seattle, advertising his skills for a nickel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL HANSON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
TRUCKING: Unable to find design work, Richard Chuk of Illinois, left, began truck-driving school this month
Natasha Case, below far left, and Freya Estreller have an ice cream truck in Los Angeles. (PHOTOGRAPHS TOP, SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ABOVE LEFT AND RIGHT, STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); ICE CREAM (89%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); DISMISSALS (88%); LAYOFFS (88%); RECESSION (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERIOR DESIGN SERVICES (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); JOB CREATION (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (68%); STARTUPS (66%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (65%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (51%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (51%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



581 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 915 words

HEADLINE: In a Low-Key Speech, Mayor Offers Cost-Cutting Plans for City

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN

 BODY:
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg focused on the incremental rather than the innovative in his annual State of the City address on Wednesday, pledging to avoid any new spending, to consolidate government operations and to take modest steps in helping small businesses and minority youths.
 It was a decidedly more low-key, less ambitious presentation than those Mr. Bloomberg has made in the past. 
 He promised to expand job training services and to organize financing fairs for immigrant small-business owners. He said five banks and five credit unions had volunteered to set up a program featuring bank accounts with no minimum balances or hidden fees. And in the city's latest effort to help stanch the foreclosure crisis, he vowed to establish a $10 million fund that would help up to 1,000 families refinance their mortgages.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who won re-election to a third term by a narrower-than-expected margin in November, said that a new interagency task force would ''consolidate,'' ''centralize'' and ''reduce'' government operations. Among the goals, he said, would be cutting the number of city vehicles, and shrinking the city's office space by 10 percent -- or 1.2 million square feet -- over four years. The trim in office space would save $36 million in rent, and $4 million in energy, each year.
 He delivered his address -- his ninth since taking office in 2002 -- at Frank Sinatra School of the Arts in Astoria, Queens. And in a nod to ''New York, New York,'' which was played over a loudspeaker before and after his 45-minute speech, Mr. Bloomberg borrowed liberally from the lyrics: ''As someone once said, 'We're going to make a brand new start of it. We're going to do more than ever -- more than any city has ever done -- to find innovative ways to improve people's everyday lives.''
 In some ways, the speech was a bit of a departure for the mayor. He largely steered clear of anything controversial, unlike earlier addresses, which dealt with subjects like education, property taxes, ground zero, homelessness and term limits.
 There was no slick video narrated by Ric Burns or a marching band, as was the case last time. He made no part of his speech in Spanish, as had been his habit when he was running for a third term last year.
 Instead, Mr. Bloomberg offered a menu of grind-it-out ideas designed to help New Yorkers, against a backdrop of a $4 billion budget deficit and a national recession. ''It was a different kind of speech,'' said Bill de Blasio, the city's new public advocate. ''It was definitely incrementalist. A lot of the big-picture issues were kept to a minimum.''
 Perhaps the most notable proposal was Mr. Bloomberg's plan to combine the Department of Juvenile Justice with the Administration for Children's Services.
 ''Make no mistake: there will be no coddling,'' Mr. Bloomberg said, referring to youngsters in the juvenile justice system. ''This is an anti-crime strategy based on real data, and we'll measure results carefully.''
 Two small agencies -- the Mayor's Office of Film, Theater and Broadcasting, and NYC TV -- will also be merged. And at the Human Resources Administrations, two back offices will be combined, Mr. Bloomberg announced, resulting in an expected annual savings of $3.9 million.
 And, in the kind of language that was typical of his tenure building his financial services firm, Bloomberg L.P., the mayor -- who is the wealthiest person in the city -- said that technology could improve government efficiency and customer service. He plans to start a pilot program to install GPS devices on city school buses. He also said the city would hand out bracelets that would enable families to locate the elderly or children.
 Mr. Bloomberg, who toyed with the notion of a presidential run in 2008, and was later reported to be on Senator John McCain's short list of vice presidential contenders, did not completely confine himself to local issues.
 Citing President Obama's announcement that undocumented Haitians who were in the United States before the Jan. 12 earthquake would get temporary protective status and be allowed to remain legally for 18 months, Mr. Bloomberg said that the city would lead an effort to help Haitian New Yorkers get legal and administrative support to apply for such status.
 ''That will allow them to find legal employment here, and allow more money to find its way back home to their loved ones,'' Mr. Bloomberg said.
 Afterward, city officials offered mixed assessments. Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, praised Mr. Bloomberg's commitment to small businesses, and his attempts to deal with foreclosure problems.
 John C. Liu, the new city comptroller, commended Mr. Bloomberg for focusing on small businesses and immigrants, but said that the foreclosure plan sounded like ''rhetoric we've heard before.'' Mr. Bloomberg should have been more critical of Wall Street, Mr. Liu added.
 Meanwhile, Scott M. Stringer, the Manhattan borough president, and Ruben Diaz Jr., the Bronx borough president, expressed surprise and disappointment that Mr. Bloomberg did not say anything about establishing a commission to overhaul the City Charter -- a commission that is expected to change the term-limits law.
 Of course, Mr. Bloomberg being Mr. Bloomberg, a few verbal miscues were on display, as well. Beyond botching a couple of names, Mr. Bloomberg may have committed a bit of a Freudian slip when he summed up his speech as the ''State of Our Union,'' and not the State of the City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mayor Bloomberg gave his State of the City address at a high school in Queens. Cheering for the Jets was also on the agenda.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TERM LIMITS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (75%); FORECLOSURE (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (72%); RECESSION (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (71%); FAMILY (71%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); CREDIT UNIONS (70%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (54%); MORTGAGE LOANS (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RICK PERRY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



582 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; MAN IN THE NEWS: SCOTT BROWN; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: For Kennedy's Republican Successor, Discipline Helped Carve Path to Senate

BYLINE: By MARK LEIBOVICH

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Scott Brown lives by what he calls ''Army values,'' instilled 30 years ago when he joined the Massachusetts National Guard. ''The most regimented person I know,'' his oldest daughter calls the Republican politician, who abhors disorder while sometimes inviting it with audacious pursuits -- whether jumping into frigid lakes at 5 a.m. (for triathlon training) or into a seemingly quixotic Senate race.
 ''I treated this campaign like a sprint triathlon,'' Mr. Brown said in an interview Wednesday. ''You have to be good in everything, 18, 19 hours a day. We were just out there cranking.''
''Just out there cranking'' could be a mantra of a man quick to boast of his athletic accomplishments and confident enough to challenge President Obama -- who had called to congratulate him Tuesday night -- to a basketball game. He strives for ''total discipline'' but can be prone to curious public statements (declaring his 19- and 21- year-old daughters ''available'' in his victory speech ); he has fashioned a ''nice guy'' image while sometimes offending ( saying, for instance, in 2001 that lesbians having children was ''not normal''). 
 Scott Philip Brown, 50, is the unlikely successor to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, the possibly fatal agent of Mr. Obama's health care bill and the protagonist in of one of the great political upsets in recent memory. ( Mr. Obama's top political aide, David Axelrod, praised Mr. Brown's campaign as ''spectacular.'') Mr. Brown was even asked at a news conference in Boston on Wednesday whether he would consider running for president. (He demurred.)
 While pundits of both parties were ascribing his victory to discontent over the economy and a radical shift in the nation's political mood since the 2008 election, Mr. Brown has dutifully separated himself from any grand cause. By Wednesday he seemed eager to put the symbolism of his win behind him.
 ''All eyes are going to be on me; I'm not stupid,'' Mr. Brown said in the interview. ''I get it. And I'm going to make sure I'm going to be the best senator I can possibly be.''
 Mr. Brown's craving for discipline and order was born of a chaotic childhood. His parents were divorced when he was 1, and each one was married four times. He lived for a time with his grandparents and dealt with an ever-changing cast of stepparents.
 ''Some of these marriages were not that pretty,'' said John Encarnaceo, a retired colonel in the Massachusetts National Guard and former boyfriend of Mr. Brown's mother, Judith Brown. 
 ''I grew up fast,'' Mr. Brown recalled. ''I remember waking up in the middle of the night, and hearing the banging and the screams and having to be the 5- or 6-year-old boy having to save Mom.''
 He grew his hair long, listened to Aerosmith and Kiss and, at 12, was arrested for shoplifting a bunch of albums (Black Sabbath, Deep Purple and Grand Funk Railroad) at a local mall.
 He went before a judge, Samuel Zoll, who invited him into his chambers and asked him about his life. Mr. Brown responded by saying he loved basketball and had younger half siblings who looked up to him. ''How do you think they would like to watch you play basketball in jail?'' the judge asked, according to Mr. Brown's telling. Judge Zoll demanded that Mr. Brown write a 1,500-word essay about the episode and eventually let him go. 
 Mr. Brown said that experience was a pivot point in his life, leading him to be more serious about school and sports. His long-range shooting skill at Wakefield High School and, eventually, Tufts University, earned him the nickname Downtown Scotty Brown.
 He joined the National Guard at 20, in part to help pay for law school at Boston College. He was drawn to the Guard during an epic blizzard in 1978 that dumped more than three feet of snow on eastern Massachusetts and left motorists stranded on local highways -- requiring an all-out rescue effort. Mr. Brown has been deployed in areas as far-flung as Paraguay and Kazakhstan, though never in a combat zone.
 Fiercely competitive, he is ever mindful of his Guard ranking (lieutenant colonel) and athletic benchmarks (''I made All-America this year in triathlon,'' he noted). 
 That ambition may help explain his political rise. While Mr. Brown runs a small law practice out of his home in Wrentham, in the Boston suburbs, he ran for town assessor after he felt slighted by a town official in 1992. He won his State Senate seat in 2004 in a special election. 
 Mr. Brown was considered a relatively conservative Republican in the Legislature, which would place him closer to the center among Senate Republicans in Washington.
 Mr. Brown has tried to project a more conciliatory image even while unloading criticism on the state ''Democratic machine'' and being embraced by many conservative hardliners across the country. He sprinkles his sentences with ''sirs'' and ''ma'ams'' and ''with all due respects.'' He has been generous in praising Mr. Kennedy and said the first person he called after his victory Tuesday night was Mr. Kennedy's widow, Victoria.
 He is also confident, which would seem a prerequisite for anyone who poses for Cosmopolitan magazine in his birthday suit (as Mr. Brown did when he was 22). And he is at times superstitious, carrying good luck stones in his pocket, according to his daughter Ayla, and calling everyone he knew on Election Day to remind them to vote. When the president called to congratulate him Tuesday night, Mr. Brown challenged him to a game of two-on-two hoops: he and Ayla, a senior forward on the Boston College basketball team, against the president and a player of his choosing.
 In a phone interview Wednesday, Ms. Brown -- the older of the two ''available'' daughters -- confirmed that she is single. (By Wednesday morning, she said she had 1,080 new friend requests on her Facebook page and 285 new messages in her Facebook inbox, ''most of them from guys.'')
 Ayla sang on ''American Idol'' and Mr. Brown's wife of 23 years, Gail Huff, is a longtime reporter at WCVB-TV, the Boston ABC affiliate. 
 ''I am the third most famous member of my family,'' Mr. Brown used to joke, but not anymore. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mindful of his athletic benchmarks, Scott Brown is fiercely competitive. ''I treated this campaign like a sprint triathlon,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) GRAPHICS: How Brown's Victory Compares: Before Scott Brown's victory, former Gov. Mitt Romney was the last Republican to win a major statewide election in Massachusetts. Mr. Brown improved on even that performance. (Sources: The Associated Press (2010 results)
Dave Leip's Atlas of U.S. Presidential Elections
 Massachusetts Elections Division) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); RUNNING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); CHILDREN (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); BASKETBALL (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); STEPPARENTS (60%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (92%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); TED KENNEDY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (77%); DAVID AXELROD (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



583 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; ARTS, BRIEFLY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: New York State Budget Would Cut Arts Funds

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN; Compiled by DAVE ITZKOFF

 BODY:
Cultural support in New York State would be cut $9.6 million under the 2010-11 budget proposed by Gov. David A. Paterson on Tuesday. A final version of the budget is due to be enacted by April 1. The governor's proposal would cut funds to the New York State Council on the Arts by $6.5 million for its grant-making and by $600,000 for its administrative budget. In addition state support would be eliminated for the Egg performing arts center in Albany and begin to be phased out for the New York State Theater Institute in Troy. (There would also be a decrease of $400,000 from the 2009-10 budget because of the elimination of one-time funds for grants to arts and cultural organizations provided under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009.) ''I'm deeply disappointed and distressed,'' said Norma P. Munn, the chairwoman of the New York City Arts Coalition, referring to the proposed reduction in arts council funds. ''That's an extraordinary cut.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (95%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (79%); GOVERNORS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (68%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



584 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: Both Parties Seek Ways To Channel Populist Ire

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The remarkable Republican victory in Massachusetts demonstrated convincingly that the deep populist anger fueling the Tea Party movement has migrated from the political fringe to the mainstream, forcing both parties to confront how to channel a growing mood of public resentment to their own ends.
 Scott Brown's improbable win was a vivid example of how a candidate with traditional Republican backing -- coupled with a strong appeal to activists in the trenches of a grass-roots rebellion -- can win even in territory that had been considered out of reach. 
 ''Democrats are beginning to understand that this is the center of American politics and not the far right,'' said Dick Armey, the former House Republican leader who has been instrumental in helping organize the conservative grass-roots movement.
 As the Massachusetts results reverberated on Capitol Hill on Wednesday, Republicans said they saw Mr. Brown's triumph over the much better known Democrat, Attorney General Martha Coakley, as a model for their 2010 election strategy. 
 They predicted substantial Republican gains in Congress next November due to public outrage at what they characterized as Democratic arrogance and a natural affinity between Republicans and energized conservatives up in arms over federal red ink and a sense that the government was doing too much.
 ''There is a convergence of thought,'' said Senator John Thune of South Dakota, a member of the Republican leadership, about the activists and the Republican Party. ''I think in the end it will be a catalyst to elect more conservatives to Congress.''
 But it was impossible to judge whether the manner of Mr. Brown's win would become the rule or an exception. National Republicans and the grass roots could easily find themselves in clashes over conservative dogma that ultimately weaken general election candidates. 
 The divide between the party establishment and grass-roots conservatives already cost Republicans a House seat in New York this year, complicated the battle for the party's Senate nomination in Florida and is threatening to erupt in other races. Members of the Tea Party movement pride themselves on a willingness to take on Republicans who do not embrace what they consider proper conservative standards.
 ''If you are a Republican in a red state, don't think this can't happen to you,'' warned Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, referring to Ms. Coakley's humbling defeat and the delicate relationship between the political class and the expanding grass roots network.
 Amid the day's gloom, Democrats saw opportunity as well. They view the financial regulatory overhaul taking shape in Congress as a way to appeal to Americans angry about their own economic struggles at a time when bankers -- widely viewed as the culprits in the financial meltdown -- are again reaping huge bonuses. Many Republicans have been resistant to tighter oversight of Wall Street and big banks, setting up a clear contrast between the parties.
 But the dance with disaffected Americans is clearly trickier for Democrats. As the party in power -- granted by some of the same angry voters in 2006 and 2008 -- Democrats are by definition the establishment that voters seem to want to punish. Moreover, there is a deep divide between liberals, who are increasingly arguing that President Obama has been too timid and too quick to fold on matters of principle, and moderates, who think the White House and Congressional Democrats need to move to the political center. 
 Still, incumbency and control of Congress grant Mr. Obama and Congressional Democrats a big stage from which to make a case, and they seem to be settling on a two-pronged strategy. 
 First, they seem intent on striking a more populist economic tone, mainly by taking a hard line against Wall Street. In the last week Mr. Obama has sought to impose a tax on big banks to recoup the costs of the financial bailout. He is also trying to thwart efforts to kill a proposal for a new agency to protect consumers from financial excesses and fraud. 
 Second, they are starting to take steps to show independent and centrist voters that they will do more to attack the budget deficit and national debt.
 Members of both parties agree the electorate is unsettled and unhappy. Many Americans see themselves as people who play by the rules but struggle to keep their heads above water while the government devotes its attention to saving those who made bad or irresponsible decisions, like bankers and auto executives. Financial distress is compounded by security fears worsened by the Christmas Day bombing attempt.
 ''That is a pretty potent combination,'' said Senator Bob Casey, Democrat of Pennsylvania. ''We have to constantly remind folks that we are working on their problems and we are focused on jobs.''
 Other centrist Democrats said the results in Massachusetts could become a blessing in disguise by forcing Democrats to rein in their legislative agenda and focus on less expansive policies than the health care overhaul now teetering with the loss of the Democratic majority's crucial 60th vote.
 ''The loss in Massachusetts should serve as a wake-up call to the wing of the Democratic Party that wants the federal government to overreach and overspend,'' said Senator Mary L. Landrieu, Democrat of Louisiana. ''We need to get back to the basics.'' 
 Even Republicans privately acknowledged that the redrawn Congressional landscape could hold benefits for the most vulnerable Democrats in November by easing pressure on them to vote as part of a united 60-member Democratic bloc and sparing them from providing decisive votes on contentious issues. 
 Democrats no doubt will appreciate such breathing room as they try to regain their footing. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Democrats, including John Kerry, above, and Republicans, above right, met in a changed Senate atmosphere on Wednesday after the Massachusetts upset. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); SCOTT BROWN (78%); JOHN THUNE (58%); MARTHA COAKLEY (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



585 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Obama Trying to Turn Around His Presidency

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Chastened and bruised, President Obama on Wednesday began the daunting process of trying to turn around his presidency in a drastically altered political environment that will test his leadership, his instincts and his political dexterity as never before.
 With the loss of his party's unilateral control of the Senate, Mr. Obama pivoted to acknowledge the deep public anger on display in Tuesday's special election in Massachusetts, offering limited regrets for losing touch and signaling that he may scale back some of the sweeping ambitions he brought into office just one year ago to the day. 
 But he and his advisers were still reeling from the Republican victory in Massachusetts that cost them the filibuster-proof majority they had used to advance his priorities. Inside the White House, a debate ensued about what lessons to draw: Did the president try to enact too much change or not enough? Was he too liberal or too close to financial institutions? Should he tack to the center or more aggressively push a progressive agenda? 
 In an interview with ABC News, Mr. Obama indicated he would not give up his signature health care initiative but suggested paring it down to its ''core elements.'' He maintained that he heard the message of an election that handed the late Senator Edward M. Kennedy's seat to a Republican but cast it as an echo of the public discontent that vaulted him to the White House.
 ''Here's my assessment of not just the vote in Massachusetts but the mood around the country -- the same thing that swept Scott Brown into office swept me into office,'' Mr. Obama said. ''People are angry and they are frustrated. Not just because of what's happened in the last year or two years, but what's happened over the last eight years.''
 That, of course, was a way of putting at least some of the blame on former President George W. Bush. For himself, Mr. Obama sided with those who saw a failure of communications rather than a flawed policy agenda.
 ''If there's one thing that I regret this year, is that we were so busy just getting stuff done and dealing with the immediate crises that were in front of us, that I think we lost some of that sense of speaking directly to the American people about what their core values are and why we have to make sure those institutions are matching up with those values,'' he said. ''And that I do think is a mistake of mine.''
 The president alluded to his own reputation for emotional distance from voters suffering from a troubled economy. ''What they've ended up seeing is this feeling of remoteness and detachment where, you know, there's these technocrats up here, these folks who are making decisions,'' he said.
 That Mr. Obama made these observations to the ABC anchor George Stephanopoulos may have been fitting, given that Mr. Stephanopoulos was a White House adviser to President Bill Clinton when Democrats lost the Congress in 1994. The loss of a single Senate seat in Massachusetts does not quite match the political tectonic shift 15 years ago, but Clinton veterans in the Obama White House experienced an uncomfortable sense of deja vu.
 That defeat was followed by weeks of debate between some like Mr. Stephanopoulos who advocated more liberal populism and others like Rahm Emanuel (now Mr. Obama's White House chief of staff) who favored tacking to the political center. Ultimately, Mr. Clinton moved to the middle on issues like welfare and the deficit and declared ''the era of big government is over.''
 ''Clinton took the '94 results as an affirmation to govern the way he campaigned, to not being the president Congress wanted him to be but to be the president America had elected him to be,'' said Bruce Reed, a Clinton adviser in the centrist camp. Mr. Obama, he said, can use this as an opportunity to focus on ''results, not ideology,'' and ''make government better, not bigger.''
 Indeed, administration officials, who did not want to be identified discussing internal strategy, said Mr. Obama would put more emphasis on issues like deficit reduction and job creation. He already was assembling a bipartisan budget commission and officials acknowledged that some proposals would probably take a back seat now, like a market-based cap on greenhouse gas emissions and liberalized immigration rules.
 Still, Mr. Obama is loath to follow Mr. Clinton's example too much. His senior adviser, David Axelrod, made clear in media appearances Wednesday that the president would eschew the incremental, small-bore initiatives Mr. Clinton favored in the 1990s. And Mr. Axelrod's public rhetoric in recent days has favored populist language about standing up to banks and insurers.
 But that too has its tradeoffs. Mr. Obama has proposed a tax on banks to recover taxpayer money from the bailout, but even some officials who support the policy worry that the rhetoric fuels the image of an antibusiness administration at a time when creating jobs is the top priority.
 Mr. Obama has often confronted moments of challenge with a major speech, as he did during a race controversy in the 2008 primaries and again when health care seemed in trouble last fall. With the State of the Union now scheduled for Wednesday, he has another such opportunity. Aides said he will use it to reframe his record and aspirations.
 ''When these things hit, it's like a football team that's losing -- you've got to get back to fundamentals -- blocking and tackling and running the ball,'' said Dan Bartlett, a top adviser to Mr. Bush, who lost control of the Senate when a Republican bolted from the party in the middle of 2001. ''They have to hone in, be more disciplined, focus on one or two issues and be relentless in driving them home.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama at a directive signing, as lawmakers, from left, Claire McCaskill, Edolphus Towns and Brad Ellsworth, watched. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: President Obama's First Year 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (77%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); TED KENNEDY (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ED TOWNS (58%); CLAIRE MCCASKILL (58%); BRAD ELLSWORTH (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



586 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Why Bankers Tend to Hoard

BYLINE: By ROLFE WINKLER and RICHARD BEALES

 BODY:
The big gap between short- and long-term interest rates should mean fat lending profits for American banks. But some, like Wells Fargo, are wary of rising interest rates. Higher rates overall might encourage them to lend, but simultaneously could reduce their capacity to do so. It's a tricky problem.
 When long-term interest rates are substantially higher than short-term rates -- a situation known as a steep yield curve -- banks should be able to profit by borrowing cheaply in the short term and lending for longer periods at higher rates. 
 But this time around, the net interest margins at American banks are not tracking the steepness of the yield curve as they generally have in the past, according to FBR Research. That's partly because banks do not seem to be lending as much as they have the capacity for.
 Demand for loans is hardly healthy: economic weakness means a dearth of interested and creditworthy borrowers. But as John G. Stumpf, Wells Fargo's chief executive, noted during the bank's earnings call on Wednesday, banks also have reasons to hold back. First, accumulating cash and highly liquid securities protects them from the volatility of credit markets and prepares them for stricter liquidity requirements expected from regulators. 
 Second, although the yield curve is steep, interest rates are low -- near zero over the short term. Many banks currently have to pay more than that for deposits, so they do not get the benefit of the interest rate gap even when they do lend. And Mr. Stumpf and other bank chiefs worry that if they make loans now, rising short-term rates over the loans' life will eat away their profits.
 As a result, FBR believes that many banks will not really have the motivation to lend more aggressively until the Federal Reserve starts raising short-term rates. The trouble is, higher interest rates over all tend to cause the value of credit assets to fall.
 That in turn would generate fresh losses for banks, depleting their capital and reducing their capacity to lend. It's a conundrum for the banks as well as for the Fed as it tries to set monetary policy. 
 Defying the Oracle
 Irene Rosenfeld is clearly feeling lucky. Ms. Rosenfeld, the chief executive of Kraft Foods, raised her price to secure Cadbury's agreement to a takeover. But in reducing the stock component, she also removed a chance of Warren E. Buffett voting against the deal.
 Mr. Buffett, the chairman of Berkshire Hathaway, which is Kraft's biggest shareholder, had already expressed concern about the deal as Ms. Rosenfeld was lining it up. On Wednesday, Mr. Buffett, an investing legend, told CNBC that he was doubtful about the transaction this week and would vote against it if he could.
 But he can't. Ms. Rosenfeld increased Kraft's bid for Cadbury to 850 pence a share (about $13.92), to total some $19 billion. By adding to the cash component, she reduced the stock Kraft needed to issue to 18 percent of what was already outstanding. That neatly ducked under the 20 percent threshold that would have required shareholder approval under New York Stock Exchange rules.
 Reducing the stock component does nod to one of Mr. Buffett's objections, namely that Kraft's stock is undervalued and therefore would be an expensive acquisition currency. And other influential shareholders support the deal, including William A. Ackman of the activist hedge fund Pershing Square.
 But it's gutsy to go against a big shareholder, especially one with Mr. Buffett's aura. Sure, it appears to be a disagreement primarily about price rather than overall strategy; Mr. Buffett says he will not sell his shares and still speaks highly of Ms. Rosenfeld. Even so, it leaves her especially exposed to the slightest mishap as the deal unfolds.
 Kraft's chief must be aware of this. And it looks as if she has a margin of safety. The stated expectations for cost savings, for instance, have barely changed since the initial hostile bid. With Cadbury now on board, it should be possible to cut more than the mooted 7 percent or so of sales.
 If Kraft shares do strengthen sustainably, Ms. Rosenfeld will no doubt gladly debate Mr. Buffett about whether they did so because of, or in spite of, the Cadbury deal. Ms. Rosenfeld's alternative -- defending a deal done against her biggest shareholder's judgment with nothing in Kraft's share price to show for it -- would be a much less attractive proposition.
 For more independent financial commentary and analysis, visit www.breakingviews.com. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John G. Stumpf, head of Wells Fargo, believes banks are wise to hold back. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMES ESTRIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); YIELD CURVE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC (51%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (51%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); BRK.B (NYSE) (51%); BRK.A (NYSE) (51%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (51%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (51%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: IRENE ROSENFELD (87%); JOHN G STUMPF (77%); WARREN BUFFETT (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



587 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1113 words

HEADLINE: New Director Seeks to Put the Indie Back in Sundance

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Can Sundance's new director redefine not just the festival but also the entire independent film industry?
 The Sundance Film Festival kicks off its 26th installment on Thursday, and people are chattering about all the usual things, from which films are hot acquisition targets (''Blue Valentine'' is a good bet) to whether this would finally be the year that the celebrity sideshow dies down (unlikely). 
 But veteran festivalgoers are also chewing over something more meta: this might very well be the most important Sundance in years.
 For the first time in two decades, America's premiere film festival has a new director, John Cooper, and his primary goal has been to shift Sundance sharply back toward its arty roots. ''Less commercial, more independent'' is how he sums up this year's selections. While the roster is still stuffed with stars, Mr. Cooper may have accomplished his goal. Movies on the whole are tougher and smaller. There are fewer studio premieres. In a move many call long overdue, Sundance will introduce a section called Next, focused on ''low- or no-budget'' films. 
 With the struts kicked out from under independent film -- a parade of studios have shuttered their indie divisions -- Sundance's decisions have more potential than ever to have an impact on the genre, industry veterans say. This enormous, unexpected responsibility comes partly from a power vacuum. Harvey Weinstein no longer leads the independent film pack; the big buyers that remain, like Fox Searchlight, have been hammered in recent months.
 ''We try not to think about the industry much, but I do think people are coming here to get recharged,'' Mr. Cooper said.
 Will Mr. Cooper's Sundance help get this corner of moviedom back on track by focusing attention more squarely on innovation? Many people think the only way to resuscitate the indie sector is to make it more of a laboratory again -- to un-nest it from the overtly commercial motion picture business.
 Or will such a move hurt? These filmmakers need money, and if the buyers do not see marketability, they are not going to pry open their wallets very far.
 ''It's hard for me to tell yet, but this year's festival will definitely help us figure out what the future is,'' said Christine Vachon, the producer of 60 films, including ''Far From Heaven'' and ''Boys Don't Cry.''
 Sundance, of course, has tried to reel in its freewheeling ways before, with varying success. When you get this big -- 113 feature films over 10 days, and more than 40,000 attendees -- shifting course is very difficult. 
 And Sundance has always made risky selections. Last year's grand jury prize and audience award in the United States dramatic competition went to ''Precious: Based on the Novel 'Push' by Sapphire,'' about a Harlem teenager who suffers extreme abuse.
 ''To some degree, the festival blows the back-to-our-roots trumpet every year,'' said Bob Berney, a co-founder of Apparition, a film distributor.
 Even so, Mr. Berney said that he saw a clear swing back toward more daring filmmaking in the selections made by Mr. Cooper and his top lieutenant, Trevor Groth. A shift toward art over commerce is perhaps inevitable, given the market, he said. Over the last two years studios have folded specialty divisions (Warner Independent, Picturehouse, Paramount Vantage) or scaled them back drastically (Miramax). Outside the studio system, financing has become extremely difficult to obtain because of the credit crisis and recession.
 ''I see fewer star vehicles in this bunch, and the ones with stars seem to be darker stories,'' Mr. Berney said.
 Prominent examples include ''Blue Valentine,'' a bleak portrait of a failing marriage starring Ryan Gosling and Michelle Williams, and ''Sympathy for Delicious,'' about a paralyzed disc jockey who seeks faith healing, starring Orlando Bloom and Mark Ruffalo. ''The Company Men,'' the first feature from John Wells (''ER''), stars Ben Affleck and Kevin Costner and tackles the dreary topic of corporate downsizing. Ryan Reynolds spends the entirety of ''Buried'' in a coffin. 
 Other films receiving early buzz include a batch made on microbudgets, with nary a star in sight. ''Catfish'' is a nonfiction feature made in real time about a photographer who goes through an unusual experience involving Facebook, and ''Winter's Bone'' takes a sparse look at a girl from the Ozarks in search of her drug-dealing father. 
 ''It looks like the quality of films will be very consistent with past festivals -- the kinds of smart, subversive comedies and subtle, elegant dramas we look for every year,'' said Richard Klubeck, a partner at United Talent Agency. Mr. Klubeck is hoping to sell a flurry of pictures, including Nicole Holofcener's ''Please Give,'' about a couple's entanglements with an elderly woman.
 Indeed, agents are cautiously optimistic about sales, partly because ''Precious'' has been a box office success.
 ''This potentially could be the beginning of the beginning -- the renaissance we've all been hoping for,'' said Kevin Iwashina, a co-founder of Parlay Media, a film sales and production company. Among other films, Mr. Iwashina is a co-representative for ''8: The Mormon Proposition,'' a controversial documentary about Mormon efforts to ban gay marriage.
 Some of Mr. Cooper's changes might appear subtle to outsiders but are the equivalent of sonic booms to regular attendees. The inaugural Next section is one. Another involves opening night. This year Sundance will forgo a splashy single premiere in favor of a shorts program and two features: the partly animated ''Howl,'' with James Franco as a young Allen Ginsberg, and ''Restrepo,'' a searing documentary about the war in Afghanistan.
 ''I could taste the dirt in that one,'' Mr. Cooper said of ''Restrepo,'' directed by Sebastian Junger (''The Perfect Storm'') and Tim Hetherington.
 This being Sundance, there are other hot-button documentaries, including ''The Tillman Story,'' about how Pat Tillman's family took on the United States government following his death from his own troops' fire in Afghanistan. But there is also some fun, including ''High School,'' a stoner comedy, and the 3-D nature feature ''Cane Toads: The Conquest.'' The British comedy ''Four Lions'' centers on a bumbling group of self-styled jihadis. As for sure-fire celebrity free-for-alls, count on ''Welcome to the Rileys'' and ''The Runaways,'' both starring Kristen Stewart of ''Twilight'' fame.
 Mr. Cooper has held various programming jobs at Sundance since 1989, but took over as director in March. What is his state of mind, especially given the festival's renewed weight?
 ''Panic attack, mostly,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: John Cooper, the Sundance festival's new director, aims for the arty. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C1)
From top, Mark Ruffalo in ''Sympathy for Delicious''
Jennifer Lawrence in ''Winter's Bone''
and Aaron Tveit, left, and James Franco in ''Howl,'' all part of the 26th Sundance Film Festival, which opens on Thursday and includes 113 feature films. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SAM URDANK
SEBASTIAN MLYNARSKI
 JOJO WHILDEN) (C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (91%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LAWRENCE (79%); HARVEY WEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



588 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 821 words

HEADLINE: Some Frank Talk About Haiti

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
On my blog, a woman named Mona pointed to Haitian corruption and declared: ''I won't send money because I know what will happen to it.'' Another reader attributed Haiti's poverty to ''the low I.Q. of the 9 million people there,'' and added: ''It is all very sad and cannot be fixed.''
 ''Giving money to Haiti and other third-world countries is like throwing money in the toilet,'' another commenter said. A fourth asserted: ''Haiti is a money pit. Dumping billions of dollars into it has proven futile. ... America is deeply in debt, and we can't afford it.'' 
 Not everyone is so frank, but the subtext of much of the discussion of Haiti is despair about both Haiti and foreign aid. Pat Robertson, the religious broadcaster, went furthest by suggesting that Haiti's earthquake flowed from a pact with the devil more than two centuries ago. While it's not for a journalist to nitpick a minister's theological credentials, that implication of belated seismic revenge on Haitian children seems defamatory of God. 
 Americans have also responded with a huge outpouring of assistance, including more than $22 million raised by the Red Cross from text messages alone. But for those with doubts, let's have a frank discussion of Haiti's problems:
 Why is Haiti so poor? Is it because Haitians are dimwitted or incapable of getting their act together?
 Haiti isn't impoverished because the devil got his due; it's impoverished partly because of debts due. France imposed a huge debt that strangled Haiti. And when foreigners weren't looting Haiti, its own rulers were. 
 The greatest predation was the deforestation of Haiti, so that only 2 percent of the country is forested today. Some trees have been -- and continue to be -- cut by local peasants, but many were destroyed either by foreigners or to pay off debts to foreigners. Last year, I drove across the island of Hispaniola, and it was surreal: You traverse what in places is a Haitian moonscape until you reach the border with the Dominican Republic -- and jungle.
 Without trees, Haiti lost its topsoil through erosion, crippling agriculture.
 To visit Haiti is to know that its problem isn't its people. They are its treasure -- smart, industrious and hospitable -- and Haitians tend to be successful in the United States (and everywhere but in Haiti). 
 Can our billions in aid to Haitians accomplish anything? After all, a Wall Street Journal column argues, ''To help Haiti, end foreign aid.''
 First, don't exaggerate how much we give or they get.
 Haiti ranks 42nd among poor countries in worldwide aid received per person ($103 in 2008, more than one-quarter of which comes from the United States). David Roodman of the Center for Global Development calculates that in 2008, official American aid to Haiti amounted to 92 cents per American.
 The United States gives more to Haiti than any other country. But it ranks 11th in per capita giving. Canadians give five times as much per person as we do.
 As for whether aid promotes economic growth, that's a bitter and unresolved argument. But even the leading critics of aid -- William Easterly, a New York University economist, and Dambisa Moyo, a banker turned author -- believe in assisting Haiti after the earthquake.
 ''I think we have a moral imperative,'' Ms. Moyo told me. ''I do believe the international community should act.''
 Likewise, Professor Easterly said: ''Of course, I am in favor of aid to Haiti earthquake victims!''
 So, is Haiti hopeless? Is Bill O'Reilly right? He said: ''Once again, we will do more than anyone else on the planet, and one year from today Haiti will be just as bad as it is right now.''
 No, he's not right. And this is the most pernicious myth of all. In fact, Haiti in recent years has been much better managed under President Rene Preval and has shown signs of being on the mend. 
 Far more than most other impoverished countries -- particularly those in Africa -- Haiti could plausibly turn itself around. It has an excellent geographic location, there are no regional wars, and it could boom if it could just export to the American market.
 A report for the United Nations by a prominent British economist, Paul Collier, outlined the best strategy for Haiti: building garment factories. That idea (sweatshops!) may sound horrific to Americans. But it's a strategy that has worked for other countries, such as Bangladesh, and Haitians in the slums would tell you that their most fervent wish is for jobs. A few dozen major shirt factories could be transformational for Haiti.
 So in the coming months as we help Haitians rebuild, let's dispatch not only aid workers, but also business investors. Haiti desperately needs new schools and hospitals, but also new factories.
 And let's challenge the myth that because Haiti has been poor, it always will be. That kind of self-fulfilling fatalism may be the biggest threat of all to Haiti, the real pact with the devil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (78%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); RELIGION (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); JOURNALISM (73%); EARTHQUAKES (72%); DEFORESTATION (67%); FARM LABOR (64%); TEXT MESSAGING (50%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



589 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Banks See a Leveling Off In Bad Consumer Loans

BYLINE: By ANDREW MARTIN

 BODY:
Since the financial crisis hit, banks have chipped away at the mountain of mortgages and credit card debt looming over struggling Americans. At last, those efforts appear to be paying off, at least for the banks. 
 At some of the nation's largest lenders, the number of consumer loans that are going bad is starting to level off. And while no one is declaring a full-scale recovery, executives at Bank of America, Wells Fargo and other big banks sound optimistic that the worst may soon be over.
 ''Credit quality appears to be stabilizing, if not improving,'' Brian T. Moynihan, chief executive of Bank of America, said Wednesday, as the bank reported fourth-quarter earnings. 
 ''The good news is there is light at the end of the tunnel, and it's not an oncoming train,'' added Scott Hoyt, senior director of consumer economics at Moody'sEconomy.com. ''A year ago, you couldn't have said that.'' 
 The good news for banks is not quite so good for many consumers, however. Given their losses on loans, banks have stanched the flow of credit, particularly by reining in the number of new loans issued and by tightening underwriting standards. In recent months, the rate of losses has started to moderate.
 ''We believe that if these trends continue, losses in about half of our 13 consumer lending businesses would have already peaked,'' said Howard I. Atkins, Wells Fargo's chief financial officer. ''And it is possible -- emphasis on the word possible -- that consumer losses in total may have already peaked,'' he added. 
 The number of loans turning sour still remains extraordinarily high. And Mr. Atkins, along with a number of experts, said that any new hit to the fragile national recovery, including a further rise in unemployment, could stall the decline in losses or even reverse the trend. While banking experts now believe consumer loan losses will peak in 2010, they expect losses to remain high until the overall economy and job situation show more robust improvement. 
 ''In the second half of the year, it will be more and more important for the overall economy to improve at a faster clip,'' said Anthony Polini, a banking analyst at Raymond James.
 For now, the tepid recovery is still hampering people's ability to repay their debts. Bank of America said Wednesday that it had to write off twice as many troubled loans in 2009 as it did the previous year, a total of $33.7 billion from $16.2 billion in 2008. Write-offs on domestic credit cards alone accounted for $6.5 billion in 2009.
 But the rate of loss is declining. In the fourth quarter, the bank wrote off 3.7 percent of its loans, down from 4.1 percent the previous quarter.
 ''One quarter doesn't make a trend, but we feel much better about the loss levels of this quarter and that they signal stabilization,'' said Joe L. Price, chief financial officer at Bank of America. He acknowledged that a delayed recovery of the national economy ''beyond our expectations or unforeseen events could obviously keep pressure on the performance.''
 Troubles in lending helped lead Bank of America to a loss of $2.2 billion, or 29 cents a share, in 2009, in contrast to a profit of $2.6 billion, or 54 cents, a year earlier.
 The bank's net loss in the fourth quarter surged to $5.2 billion, or 60 cents a share, compared with a net loss of $2.4 billion a year earlier because of costs associated with repaying the federal government bailout. 
 Wells Fargo, which has one of the nation's largest consumer lending books, reported profits of $2.8 billion for the fourth quarter, in contrast to a $2.7 billion loss for the period a year earlier. Earnings to shareholders were reduced to $394 million, or 8 cents a share, largely because of the cost of repaying a government bailout. For the year, Wells reported profits of $12.3 billion, or $1.75 a share, up from $2.7 billion in 2008.
 The reports come after Citigroup said that the $1.6 billion in losses it had in 2009 came in part from troubles in the bank's mortgage and credit card units, which overwhelmed gains from investment banking -- a trend that is likely to continue. Last week, JPMorgan Chase said its consumer businesses, and particularly its credit card unit, were hemorrhaging money. 
 Also on Wednesday, Minneapolis-based U.S. Bancorp reported net charge offs of $1.1 billion in the fourth quarter, a 7 percent increase over the previous quarter. Like Wells and Bank of America, U.S. Bancorp, which reported $602 million in profits for the quarter, said the rate of increase for bad loans was moderating.
 Meanwhile, many large credit card issuers are writing off 10 percent or more of their portfolios. Bank of America said the percentage of credit card loans it thinks will never be paid hit 13.53 percent in December. JPMorgan Chase expects to charge off 10.5 percent of its credit card portfolios in the first half of 2010.
 The level of write-offs, coupled with legislation coming into effect in February that will limit profitability for credit card issuers, suggests that 2010 will be ''one of the most challenging in the history of the business,'' said Moshe Orenbuch, a banking analyst with Credit Suisse, in a recent note to investors.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Bank of America branch in New York City. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the bank started to write off fewer bad loans. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B8) DRAWING (B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); TRENDS (88%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (74%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (92%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); BAC (NYSE) (92%); BAC (LSE) (92%); 8648 (TSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%)

PERSON: BRIAN MOYNIHAN (58%); HOWARD I ATKINS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



590 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Should Surgeons Meet Patients Online?

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
IMAGINE the ease. It's 2 a.m. and you can't stop thinking about your saggy midsection. You log on to SurgeonHouseCall.com and create a free patient profile declaring your wish to get a tummy tuck. You fill out a brief medical history and include photographs of the problem area. 
 In no time, three plastic surgeons offer detailed opinions on the best course of action -- with price quotes. It's as if SurgeonHouseCall.com co-opted the LendingTree slogan, ''When banks compete, you win.'' 
 In less than a year, SurgeonHouseCall.com has recruited 55 plastic surgeons nationwide to offer opinions. Meanwhile, dozens of plastic surgeons also offer virtual consultations on their own Web sites. But does a patient who gets a plastic surgeon's recommendation before a face-to-face visit really ''win?'' Conservative plastic surgeons say it's fine to send an e-mail message with general information about a range of procedures to a patient, but the practice of offering a diagnosis without ever having met a patient can be problematic. 
 What's more, offering a surgical recommendation to a distant patient may violate state laws, if the plastic surgeon isn't licensed in the home state of the patient, according to the Federation of State Medical Boards, a nonprofit group representing 70 boards in the United States and its territories. 
 Critics also say that patients' poor-quality pictures don't provide doctors with adequate information. And patients seldom realize that no virtual recommendation is solid without an office consultation and medical clearance. 
 Advocates of virtual consultations suggest that they are convenient and that receiving multiple opinions online benefits a prospective patient. ''It changes the first in-person consultation, empowering the patient with knowledge of the procedure, decreased anxiety level and financial readiness,'' said Dr. Jason L. Mussman, the founder of SurgeonHouseCall.com. (Dr. Mussman, a resident at Loma Linda University in California, isn't one of the board-certified plastic surgeons offering his services on the site because he hasn't been certified by the American Board of Plastic Surgery.)
 Out-of-town patients are the primary users of virtual consultations, in which a doctor may offer an opinion in a video chat, an e-mail exchange or a phone conversation. Convenience is the main draw, but a few surgeons also cited the anonymity of the situation, which is attractive to shy patients. 
 ''They want a semi-anonymous type of evaluation,'' said Dr. Dean P. Kane, a plastic surgeon in Baltimore who offers online consultations. ''They want to know cost, and what you get for that cost before they make a commitment, before they walk through that door.'' 
 Most plastic surgeons don't offer virtual consultations. However, in an age when many Web-savvy plastic surgeons answer questions at cosmetic enhancement sites like RealSelf.com, plenty feel comfortable dispensing opinions to patients they've never met.
 Some promise to evaluate pictures quickly and to call back with their expert opinion. Others charge $100 to screen patients to see if they are appropriate candidates. 
 The Web site of Dr. Barry Eppley, a plastic surgeon in the Indianapolis area, promotes ''Webcam consultations with Skype.'' But in a phone interview, Dr. Eppley called them ''online conversations'' because, he said, ''Technically it's not a consultation. You're not going to jump from an online consultation to surgery. You're using the online thing as a connection.'' 
 And because those virtual connections bring in new patients, they are, in effect, marketing tools that some plastic surgeons consider crucial in this difficult economic climate. 
 Dr. Eppley said he often persuaded out-of-state patients after just 20 minutes of a Skype chat. ''They do move ahead,'' he wrote in an e-mail message. ''Regardless of where they are geographically,'' he said, ''people will come to you because they connected with you.''
 Experts like Dr. Loren S. Schechter, the chairman of the patient safety committee for the American Society of Plastic Surgeons, worry about patients getting a hard sell. Consultations ''shouldn't be about selling the surgery,'' he said. 
 Providing a diagnosis to patients across state lines also raises legal issues. Dr. Humayun J. Chaudhry, the president of the Federation of State Medical Boards, said that according to its guidelines a patient-doctor relationship is ''clearly established and begun when a physician agrees to undertake diagnosis and treatment of the patient, and the patient agrees.'' Such a distinction matters, because usually doctors should only be able to care for patients in states where they are licensed. 
 All the plastic surgeons interviewed for this article insisted an in-office consultation took place prior to surgery. However, when doctors first examine out-of-towners -- who often arrive 24 to 72 hours before the scheduled procedure -- the doctor's recommendation might change, or the cost might increase, said Carol M. Martin, an independent plastic surgery consultant who works on behalf of patients. On Skype, Ms. Martin said, the doctor might have stated, ''It was going to be X, Y, Z and cost $10,000 but now that I see you in person, it's going to be $13,000.'' 
 Not being prepared for last-minute changes ''seems like the biggest pitfall to me,'' said Ms. Martin, who tells clients to meet with three to five surgeons before committing. 
 Angela Segal, a patient consultant, reviews quotes for women seeking plastic surgery and negotiates a price. (She also helps plastic surgeons with ''online social networking marketing.'') But if a patient didn't have an in-office consultation, she won't even look at a price quote. ''Nothing is more true and correct than actually seeing a doctor in person,'' said Ms. Segal, who worked 12 years as administrator in two plastic surgery practices. 
 She doesn't trust the pictures patients send in e-mail messages to plastic surgeons for evaluation any more than the ones the lovelorn post at online dating sites. ''You expect the doctor to trust the pictures, which is ridiculous.'' 
 Since some family practitioners have begun using electronic visits, the American Academy of Family Physicians has established guidelines, including the stipulation that a physician should evaluate only established patients virtually, and only over ''safe, secure, online communication systems.''
 The American Society of Plastic Surgeons has no policy. Some plastic surgeons make it clear to their patients that communications through their Web site ''are not necessarily secure'' and that ''you assume the risk of unauthorized use'' of say, the topless pictures you send for evaluation. 
 Paramount in this brave new world is ensuring that patients receive the same standard of care online and in person, said Dr. Chaudhry of the medical board association. ''It should be the same exact standard as if the patient was in your examining room. You can't cut corners.'' 
 Plastic surgeons are not the only doctors who do consultations on the Web. Radiologists and dermatologists do some that entail communicating with a far-flung physician; primary-care physicians also keep tabs on established patients virtually.
 Dr. John W. Bachman, whose family practice department at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., did a two-year pilot study of more than 2,500 online consultations, said the aim should be to improve the standard of online care. One issue that plagues any doctor is that they sometimes to forget to ask a crucial question. A computer asked patients in the pilot study questions tailored to find potential oversights. 
 A more structured virtual consultation might have helped Dr. Kane. The day before surgery, he saw an out-of-state woman with whom he had exchanged e-mail messages about rhinoplasty. It was only then that she mentioned her occasional cocaine use. ''The problem here is it adds significant risk to the surgery,'' said Dr. Kane, who canceled the operation. ''Your expectations get knocked down and your patient's expectations are knocked down.'' 
 So why then does Dr. Kane even bother with virtual consultations? ''If I don't do it, somebody else will do it,'' he said, citing the difficulty of having a solo practice in a competitive world. ''The technology is there.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VIRTUAL VISIT: SurgeonHouseCall.com, where one can communicate with plastic surgeons.
 PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY SOTIRIOU/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (93%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (67%); US TERRITORIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



591 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 970 words

HEADLINE: Morgan Stanley's Quarter Is Weak, Unlike Its Pay Pool

BYLINE: By GRAHAM BOWLEY

 BODY:
By almost any measure, 2009 was a lean year for Morgan Stanley -- except when it came to pay. 
 Despite the first annual loss in its 74-year history, Morgan Stanley earmarked 62 cents of every dollar of revenue for compensation, an astonishing figure, even by the gilded standards of Wall Street. In all, the bank set aside $14.4 billion for salaries and bonuses. 
 Those numbers, disclosed on Wednesday, along with news that the bank eked out a modest profit in the final three months of 2009, drew predictable fire from Washington policy makers and outside pay experts. With Morgan Stanley's perennial rival, Goldman Sachs, expected to report blowout profits and pay figures on Thursday, the stage is set for yet another round of bonus complaints. 
 Still, in a gesture to the public mood, Morgan Stanley's new chief executive, James P. Gorman, said Wednesday that his entire bonus would be paid in the form of deferred stock, with no cash at all. The outgoing chief, John J. Mack, had already announced he would take no bonus for 2009, after presiding over an era when he escalated risk-taking and the firm nearly went out of business. 
 Morgan Stanley justified its startling compensation ratio by saying its revenue had been artificially depressed by one-off accounting charges. 
 Those changes were linked to the appreciation of the bank's debt, a sign that investors believed the bank was recovering from the financial crisis. 
 Adjusting for that effect, its compensation levels would have been around 50 percent of its revenue, closer to the industry average, it said.
 But critics said those justifications ignored the fact that Wall Street's resurgent revenue and bonuses were possible only after billions of taxpayer dollars had been pumped into Morgan Stanley and other banks, directly through the federal bank bailout program, as well as indirectly through a panoply of other generous government programs.
 ''They are churning out these compensation packages but never deal with the underlying issue of all the governmental programs,'' said Jonathan Koppell, a professor of politics and management at Yale School of Management. ''Where is the column adjusting their performance for that, too?''
 Morgan Stanley's pay figures drew heat in Washington. Representative Peter Welch, Democrat of Vermont, who this month proposed a 50 percent tax on all bonuses above $50,000, said in an interview: ''This is totally self-serving. These are people who have the keys to the vault and are putting the money in their own pockets rather than lending to small businesses and building the economy.''
 The last two years have been wrenching for Morgan Stanley. It nearly went out of business after what amounted to a run on the bank in 2008, and was saved by government money and cash from Japanese and Chinese investors who took stakes in the firm.
 It was faulted again this year when it cautiously refused to take on risks in its sales and trading operations. While more aggressive rivals like Goldman Sachs bounced back quickly to heady profits, Morgan Stanley only swung back in the third quarter.
 On Wednesday, Morgan announced its timid return to profitability continued in the fourth quarter -- it earned net income from continuing operations of $413 million. For all of 2009, on a diluted basis, which includes new shares that have been sold, the bank lost 93 cents a share. 
 Making his debut in the conference call with analysts and the media to announce the results, Mr. Gorman said 2009 had been ''a year of transition'' but 2010 would be ''a year of execution'' as the firm enjoyed the results of changes to its businesses. These include a big expansion into the less volatile retail brokerage business of selling stocks and bonds to ordinary investors. 
 The biggest disappointment in the latest quarter came at the firm's sales and trading unit, which is at the core of its business but which did not meet analysts' expectations. But the firm said it had increased risk-taking in its trading business during the quarter, and Colm Kelleher, chief financial officer, said a program to hire up to 400 traders globally was on track and would add firepower to its operations. They would be ''up to speed'' in the first quarter of 2010, he said.
 In an interview, Mr. Kelleher said the new traders were being hired from across Wall Street, including from firms like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan, but he said they were not being paid excessively to join Morgan Stanley. He defended the firm's compensation levels by saying Morgan had to compete for talent: ''Do I think the industry is overpaid? Yes. Can we jeopardize the franchise, being St. Sebastian and getting pierced by arrows? No. There is no point in being martyrs here.''
 Morgan Stanley has shaken up its senior management. In addition to the ascension of Mr. Gorman, and the move by Mr. Mack to the chairman's role, Mr. Kelleher is becoming co-head of its institutional securities business, in part to fix the trading operations. He will be replaced by Ruth Porat, from the investment banking side of the firm.
 Peter Nerby, an analyst at Moody's, said Morgan Stanley was well positioned compared with rivals such as Citigroup and Bank of America, whose consumer banking businesses are suffering from the weak economy. 
 ''This is not gangbuster profitability,'' he said. ''But one of the advantages Morgan Stanley has is it is not burdened by a big consumer book.''
 Morgan will probably reveal the size of Mr. Gorman's pay package this week. Three-quarters of other senior executives' compensation is being paid in deferred cash and stock. But high as Morgan's bonus pool is, it will almost certainly be eclipsed in absolute dollar terms by Goldman, which set aside $16 billion for compensation in the first nine months of 2009 alone. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BONUS PAY (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (71%); BAILOUTS (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (62%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (50%)

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (97%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (97%); GS (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (97%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%)

PERSON: JAMES GORMAN (58%); JOHN J MACK (58%); PETER WELCH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



592 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 680 words

HEADLINE: China on Path to Become Second-Largest Economy

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING China announced Thursday that its gross domestic product in fourth quarter 2009 grew by 10.7 percent year-on-year, up from a revised growth rate of 9.1 percent in the third quarter. China's economy is surging forward even as many other nations, including the United States, are still trying to punch through the global recession. 
 Over the whole year, the Chinese economy grew by 8.7 percent, surpassing the 8 percent growth-rate benchmark that Chinese leaders assert is necessary to maintain social stability. If China keeps up that growth rate, it will likely replace Japan as the world's second-largest economy by the end of this year. 
The National Bureau of Statistics also announced Thursday that industrial production in December grew by 18.5 percent and retail sales by 17.5 percent. The December consumer price index rose by 1.9 percent and producer price index by 1.7 percent.
 The numbers were generally in line with earlier predictions. Chinese officials are clearly worried about inflation and asset bubbles, especially in real estate, but the latest economic statistics will no doubt fuel the triumphant tone of recent official pronouncements on the Chinese economy. Much of that commentary has emphasized the contrast between China's relatively successful weathering of the global recession and the severe downturn that still afflicts Western economies. 
 A front-page signed editorial on Jan. 5 in the People's Daily, the official mouthpiece of the Communist Party, praised the Party for its far-sighted economic policies and lauded the Chinese economic model.
 ''When the financial crisis forced the neo-liberal economic system into a dead end, the shortcomings of the capitalist system was exposed for all to see,'' the editorial said. ''But a China that was pushed to a crossroads proved its 'national capabilities' in taking on a crisis by answering with the advantage of the socialist system with Chinese characteristics.''
 Chinese officials remain concerned about inflation and excessive bank lending, as well as loan defaults. In recent weeks, they have acted on several front to address those issues.
 On Jan. 7, the central bank raised a key interest rate, the first time it had done so in nearly five months. Five days later, regulators ordered state-owned banks to set aside a larger share of their deposits as reserves against failed loans. Investors and analysts had not expected such a move until the second quarter of this year.
 On Wednesday, Bank Of China ordered its credit officials to halt any new renminbi loans in an attempt to curb overly fast lending growth in the first few weeks of this month. Liu Mingkang, chairman of the China Banking Regulatory Commission, said in Hong Kong that he expected to see a sharp drop in new renminbi lending, but that his organization had not ordered it. 
 Economists said China would move to further tighten bank lending to confront inflationary fears and swelling asset bubbles.
 ''The first half of 2010 is likely to be characterized by gradual policy tightening, chiefly through administrative measures,'' Jing Ulrich, director of the China equities and commodities division of J.P. Morgan in Hong Kong, wrote in a report on Thursday. ''Concerns about capital inflows and the health of the export sector will limit the scope for interest rate tightening, but we do expect to see a moderation in new bank loans and the use of reserve requirements to manage the volume of money supply.''
 Economic numbers released Thursday also showed China's export industry is still responsible for much of its growth. Some Chinese economists have said China must restructure its economy so that it begins to rely more on domestic consumption and less on exports, which are greatly affected by the overall health of the world economy.
 Other countries, especially the United States, have also said the artificially low value of renminbi gives China an unfair advantage in exports, and governments will likely press China much harder this year to strengthen its currency, something that China has resisted doing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BANKING IN CHINA (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); STATISTICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); LIBERALISM (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); CENTRAL BANKS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (61%); RETAIL SALES (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF CHINA LTD (51%)

TICKER: 3988 (HKSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (74%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



593 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: Inside The Times

 BODY:
International
 CHINA TREATS GOOGLE ISSUE 
 As One That's Not Political
 The Chinese government is taking a cautious approach to the dispute with Google, treating the conflict as a business dispute that requires commercial negotiations and not a political matter that could affect relations with the United States. PAGE A10
 CONCERN FOR CLIMATE DEAL 
 The top climate official at the United Nations warned that a tentative and nonbinding agreement fashioned by world leaders at the climate change summit meeting in Copenhagen last month already appeared at risk of unraveling. PAGE A8
 VIETNAM ACTIVISTS CONVICTED
 In a closely watched trial, four democracy advocates in Vietnam were convicted of trying to overthrow the state. They were prosecuted as part of campaign against dissent that has led to dozens of arrests in recent months. PAGE A6
 National
 REPORT FAULTS F.B.I.'S PROCESS
 Of Obtaining Phone Records
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation improperly obtained calling records for more than 3,500 telephone accounts between 2003 and 2006 without adhering to any legal procedures, according to a newly disclosed report by the Justice Department's inspector general. PAGE A23
 ANXIETY OVER COLLEGE COSTS
 According to an annual nationwide survey, the recession has affected the way college freshmen chose a school and their ability to pay for it. More students were likely to have at least one unemployed parent, and higher numbers of students reported concern about how they would pay for their educations. PAGE A23
 New York
 3 WEEKS INTO RETIREMENT, MORGENTHAU TAKES A LAW JOB
 Robert M. Morgenthau, the legendary former prosecutor fresh off a 35-year stint as the Manhattan district attorney, announced a new career: joining the corporate firm Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen & Katz. PAGE A32
 Business
 TECH COMPANIES SQUARE OFF
 In Looming E-Book Battle
 Kindle devices and the e-book store of Amazon dominate a nascent but booming market, but Apple's avidly awaited tablet, which is widely expected to be announced this month, will be a far more versatile device. Book publishers, who rail against the dominance of Amazon and its insistence on discounting new releases, are now playing the tech titans against each other. PAGE B1
 OPTIMISM AT BIG BANKS
 Some of the nation's largest lenders are starting to see a leveling off in the number of consumer loans going sour. And while no one is declaring that consumers are enjoying a full-scale recovery, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and some of the nation's other big lenders are starting to feel optimistic that the worst may have passed. PAGE B1
 STARBUCKS'S NEW TACK
 Starbucks has changed its approach by embracing smaller, independent-minded stores in an attempt to inject the multinational chain with a dose of the urgency, nimbleness and risk-taking of a start-up company. The switch may have worked, as evidenced by the company's stronger first-quarter numbers. PAGE B1
 Palm's Improved Phones B1
 Sports
 ANOTHER SIDE OF A PLAYER
 In an N.B.A. Confrontation
 Javaris Crittenton was until recently an anonymous backup guard with a short N.B.A. resume. He is now known as the player who police say loaded a handgun during an angry standoff with his Washington Wizards teammate Gilbert Arenas. But those who have known Crittenton the longest cannot reconcile the image with the person. PAGE B23
 A STAR'S RETURN TO THE ICE
 The entire skating world is waiting to see what Sasha Cohen, one of the sport's biggest stars, can do after nearly four years away from the ice. She has not competed since winning the bronze medal at the 2006 world championships. PAGE B24
 Overlooking Damon's Value B26
 Arts
 NEW DIRECTOR SEEKS TO PUT
 The Indie Back in Sundance
 For the first time in two decades, the Sundance Film Festival has a new director, John Cooper, and his primary goal has been to shift Sundance sharply back toward its arty roots. PAGE C1
 Home
 OUT-OF-WORK ARCHITECTS 
 Turn to Other Skills
 The troubled economy and the collapse of the real estate market have thrown thousands of architects and designers out of work in the last year or so, forcing them to find or create jobs. Many of those who have been laid off are discovering new talents often unrelated to architecture. PAGE D1
 Thursday Styles
 CHILDREN TAKE THE STAGE 
 In Same-Sex Marriage Push
 In recent years, an increasing number of children have taken active roles in campaigns pushing for the legalization of same-sex marriage. Their involvement is helping to change the narrative of same-sex marriage to a story about families from one about couples. PAGE E1
 Op-ed
 GAIL COLLINS PAGE A33 
 NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF PAGE A33 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (86%); BANKING & FINANCE (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (76%); TRIAL & PROCEDURE (75%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); CONSUMER LENDING (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); BOOKSTORES (67%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (67%); BOOK PUBLISHING (62%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); STARTUPS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (91%); WACHTELL LIPTON ROSEN & KATZ (83%); APPLE INC (64%); WELLS FARGO & CO (62%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (83%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (55%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (91%); AAPL (NASDAQ) (64%); WFC (NYSE) (62%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (91%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (64%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (64%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (64%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (64%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (62%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); VIET NAM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



594 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1049 words

HEADLINE: The Times To Set Fee For Some On Web Site

BYLINE: By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
Taking a step that has tempted and terrified much of the newspaper industry, The New York Times announced on Wednesday that it would charge some frequent readers for access to its Web site -- news that drew ample reaction from media analysts and consumers, ranging from enthusiastic to withering.
 Starting in January 2011, a visitor to NYTimes.com will be allowed to view a certain number of articles free each month; to read more, the reader must pay a flat fee for unlimited access. Subscribers to the print newspaper, even those who subscribe only to the Sunday paper, will receive full access to the site without any additional charge. 
 Executives of The New York Times Company said they wanted to create a system that would have little effect on the millions of occasional visitors to the site, while trying to cash in on the loyalty of more devoted readers. But fundamental features of the plan have not yet been decided, including how much the paper will charge for online subscriptions or how many articles a reader will be allowed to see without paying.
 ''This announcement allows us to begin the thought process that's going to answer so many of the questions that we all care about,'' Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the Times Company chairman and publisher of the newspaper, said in an interview. ''We can't get this halfway right or three-quarters of the way right. We have to get this really, really right.''
 For years, publishers banked on a digital future supported entirely by advertising, dismissing online fees as little more than a formula for shrinking their audiences and ad revenue. But two years of plummeting advertising has many of them weighing anew whether they might collect more money from readers than they would lose from advertisers.
 Financial analysts and writers who follow the media business had mostly qualified praise for the decision of The Times. NYTimes.com is the most popular newspaper site in the country, with more than 17 million readers a month in the United States, according to Nielsen Online; analysts say it is the leader in advertising revenue, as well, giving The Times more to lose if the move backfires.
 ''You can't continue to be The New York Times unless you find'' a new source of revenue, said James McQuivey, media analyst at Forrester Research.
 Mike Simonton, an analyst at Fitch Ratings, said, ''We expect that The Times will be able to execute a strategy like this,'' adding that other papers will try it in the near future, but few are likely to succeed.
 But the response was far from universally positive. Felix Salmon, a respected writer on media for Reuters, wrote, ''Successful media companies go after audience first, and then watch revenues follow; failing ones alienate their audience in an attempt to maximize short-term revenues.'' 
 Others endorsed the idea of a pay wall generally, while criticizing the approach of The Times.
 Thousands of readers sent e-mail messages to The Times or posted comments on the site Wednesday, with those saying they supported the move outnumbered by others who vowed not to pay.
 Shares of the Times Company fell 39 cents, closing at $13.31.
 All visitors to NYTimes.com will have full access to the home page. In addition, readers will be able to read individual articles through search sites like Google, Yahoo and Bing without charge. After that first article, though, clicking on subsequent ones will count toward the monthly limit. Among the nation's largest newspapers, only The Wall Street Journal and Newsday charge for access to major portions of their Web sites. A few smaller ones also do, including The Financial Times, The Arkansas Democrat-Gazette and The Albuquerque Journal, and more are expected to join their ranks this year.
 The Times Company has been studying the matter for almost a year, searching for common ground between pro- and anti-pay camps. Company executives said the changes would wait another year primarily because they need to build pay-system software that works seamlessly with NYTimes.com and the print subscriber database.
 ''There's no prize for getting it quick,'' said Janet L. Robinson, the company's president and chief executive. ''There's more of a prize for getting it right.'' 
 Within the newsroom of The Times, where there has long been strong sentiment in favor of charging, the primary criticism was about the wait until 2011.
 ''I think we should have done it years ago,'' said David Firestone, a deputy national news editor. ''As painful as it will be at the beginning, we have to get rid of the notion that high-quality news comes free.''
 The Times has tried and abandoned more limited online pay models. In the 1990s it charged overseas readers, and from 2005 to 2007 the newspaper's TimesSelect service charged for access to editorials and columns. 
 Company executives said the current decision was not a reaction to the ad recession but a long-term strategy to develop new revenue. ''This is a bet, to a certain degree, on where we think the Web is going,'' Mr. Sulzberger said. ''This is not going to be something that is going to change the financial dynamics overnight.''
 Most readers who go to the Times site, as with other news sites, are incidental visitors, arriving no more than once in a while through searches and links, and many of them would be unaffected by the new system. A much smaller number of committed readers account for the bulk of the site visits and page views, and the essential question is how many of them will pay.
 The Times Company looked at several approaches, including a straightforward pay wall similar to The Journal's, which makes some articles available to any visitor, and others accessible only to paying readers. It also rejected the ideas of varying the price depending on how much a consumer uses the site, and a ''membership'' format similar to the one used in public broadcasting.
 The approach the company took was ''the one that after much research and study we determined has the most upside'' in both subscriptions and advertising, said Martin A. Nisenholtz, senior vice president for digital operations. ''We're trying to maximize revenue. We're not saying we want to put this revenue stream above that revenue stream. The goal is to maximize both revenue streams in combination.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Beginning in January 2011, unlimited access to NYTimes.com will require a paper subscription or payment of a flat fee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) GRAPHIC: Q.&A. on NYTimes.com: Q. Will access to NYTimes.com be free for subscribers to the print newspaper? A. Yes. Even people who subscribe only to the Sunday paper will have free, unlimited use of the Web site. Q. When will The Times start charging for access to NYTimes.com? A. In January 2011. Q. How much will be charged? A. That has not been decided. Q. How much will I be able to read without paying? A. A reader will be able to see a certain number of articles in a month before hitting a socalled pay wall. That number has not yet been determined. Any reader will have unlimited access to the NYTimes.com home page. You will still be able to read individual articles through search sites like Google, Yahoo and Bing without charge. After that first article, though, clicking on subsequent ones will count toward your monthly limit. After reaching the limit, you will still be able to get to Times articles through the search engine, but you will not be able to click to a second article on the Web site without paying. Q. If I agree to pay for content, will I be charged individually for each article I read, or will there be a flat rate to read as much as I want? A. A flat rate for full access to the site. Q. Why 2011, and not sooner? A. Times Company executives believe the time is needed to build a software system that can handle online subscriptions, and work seamlessly with both NYTimes.com and our database of print subscribers. Q. Will there be a separate charge for mobile devices? A. An online subscription will cover access through both computers and smartphones. Access through e-readers, like the Amazon Kindle, may be charged separately. Q. If I subscribe to The Times, in print or online, how many family members will get free access to NYTimes.com? A. A print or digital subscription will mean unlimited use of the Web site for the entire household. Q. What if I live outside the United States? Will the price be the same? A. Overseas readers will be treated the same as those in the United States. (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEB SITES (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (89%); WRITERS (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (86%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REVENUE (86%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK TIMES CO (94%); FITCH RATINGS LTD (51%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (51%)

TICKER: NYT (NYSE) (94%); FORR (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (94%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (94%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (94%); NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (51%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (51%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%)

PERSON: ARTHUR SULZBERGER JR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



595 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Obama Will Seek Limits on Banks

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES and LOUIS UCHITELLE. 
Jackie Calmes reported from Washington, and Louis Uchitelle from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama on Thursday will publicly propose giving bank regulators the power to limit the size of the nation's largest banks and the scope of their risk-taking activities, an administration official said late Wednesday.
 The president, for the first time, will throw his weight behind an approach long championed by Paul A. Volcker, former chairman of the Federal Reserve and an adviser to the Obama administration. The proposal will put limits on bank size and prohibit commercial banks from trading for their own accounts -- known as proprietary trading. 
 The White House intends to work closely with the House and Senate to include these proposals in whatever bill dealing with financial regulation finally emerges from Congress. 
 Mr. Volcker flew to Washington for the announcement on Thursday. His chief goal has been to prohibit proprietary trading of financial securities, including mortgage-backed securities, by commercial banks using deposits in their commercial banking sectors. Big losses in the trading of those securities precipitated the credit crisis in 2008 and the federal bailout.
 The president will speak at an appearance on Thursday at the White House with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, an administration official said, speaking on the condition of anonymity because the talks were private. It will come after a meeting with Mr. Volcker. 
 A similar discussion is percolating in Europe, led by Mervyn King, head of the Bank of England. 
 The president's announcement comes as his popularity in public opinion polls is falling because of stubborn unemployment and the stagnant economy, and just days after he suffered a stinging loss when the Republicans won the Senate seat from Massachusetts.
 It will be the third time in just a week that he has waded into the battle heating up in Congress over tightening regulation of financial institutions to avoid the sort of abuses that contributed to the near collapse on Wall Street. Last week he proposed a new tax on some 50 of the largest banks to raise enough money to recover the losses from the financial bailout, which ultimately could cost up to $117 billion, the Treasury estimates.
 And this week, he served notice to senior lawmakers that he wants an independent agency to protect consumers as part of any financial overhaul legislation.
 Only a handful of large banks would be the targets of the proposal, among them Citigroup, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo. Goldman Sachs, the Wall Street trading house, became a commercial bank during this latest crisis, and it would presumably have to give up that status.
 ''The heart of my argument,'' Mr. Volcker said, ''is who we are going to save and who we are not going to save. And I don't want to save what is not at the heart of commercial banking.''
 Mr. Volcker has been trying for weeks to drum up support -- on Wall Street and in Washington -- for restrictions similar to those passed in the Glass-Steagall Act in 1933. That law separated commercial banking and investment banking, so that the investment arm could no longer use a depositor's money to purchase stocks, sometimes drawing money from a savings account, for example, without the depositor's knowledge.
 The 1929 stock market crash and subsequent Depression made a shambles of that practice. But Glass-Steagall was watered down over the years and revoked in 1999. 
 Now the concern is a new type of activity in which financial giants like Citigroup, Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase engage. They now operate on two fronts. On the one hand, they are commercial banks, taking deposits, making standard loans and managing the nation's payment system. On the other hand, they trade securities for their own accounts, a hugely profitable endeavor. This proprietary trading, mainly in risky mortgage-backed securities, precipitated the credit crisis in 2008 and the federal bailout. 
 Mr. Volcker, chairman of the president's Economic Recovery Advisory Board, a panel of outside advisers set up at the start of the Obama administration, has gradually lined up big-name support for restrictions on such trading. 
 But the Obama administration until now focused on regulating the activities of the existing financial institutions, not breaking them up or limiting their activities. Under the new approach, commercial banks would no longer be allowed to engage in proprietary trading, using customers' deposits and borrowed money to carry out these trades. 
 ''Major institutions with a deposit facility should not be allowed to invest in subprime obligations under any conditions,'' said Henry Kaufman, an economist and money manager, and one of a dozen prominent Wall Street figures who have told Mr. Volcker that they support his proposal, in principle if not in detail.
 Others include William H. Donaldson, former chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission; Roger C. Altman, chairman of Evercore and a Treasury official in the Clinton administration, and John S. Reed, a former chairman of Citigroup.
 ''When I was running Citi,'' Mr. Reed said of his tenure in the 1980s and 1990s, ''we simply did not trade for our own account.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Volcker 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (93%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LEGISLATION (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (68%); POLLS & SURVEYS (52%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



596 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Silver Linings

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
Poor Democrats, cheer up. There's always a bright side.
 On the one hand, the Republicans have a new superstar, Scott Brown, the senator-elect from Massachusetts. On the other, he's already beginning to come off as a little strange. 
 During Tuesday night's victory speech, Brown veered off-script and offered up his college-student daughters to the crowd. (''Yes, they're both available!'') As his girls laughed with embarrassment and his wife yelled at him to stop, Brown just dug deeper. (''Arianna's definitely not available, but Ayla is.'') 
 By the end, even Glenn Beck was weirded out. However, in a spirit of even-handedness, let us say that Beck may have gone overboard when urged that Brown be equipped with a chastity belt and announced: ''This one could end with a dead intern.''
 For some Democrats, particularly the ones in Washington, looking on the bright side came down to blaming the Massachusetts Massacre on the party nominee, Martha Coakley. (''Political malpractice,'' sniped one Obamaite.)
 True, she seemed to have the public persona of a flounder. But if warmth and charisma were a requisite for being in the Senate, three-quarters of the members would have to go home immediately. A body where Arlen Specter can be courted by both parties is not a place that puts much premium on personal charm.
 The White House would really rather not see the vote as a commentary on Obama. In this they are in accord with Scott Brown, who when asked whether his victory was a referendum on the president, said cheerfully: ''It's much bigger than that.''
 Gradually, we are reaching a consensus that Coakley lost because the irritable voters wanted to send a message. Which was: change.
 Change all over the place! Except apparently not in beating up the bankers, since the Democrat favored a tax on big banks to pay for the bailout and the Republican opposed it. 
 And not change that involves getting out of Afghanistan. That was Coakley's idea. Brown wants to stay the course.
 Stay the course, for sure. But stop spending so much money on the course. Cut the budget! Except when it comes to the troops, who need all the support we can give them. As Scott Brown kept pointing out.
 Scott Brown has a truck. Maybe there could be more trucks.
 Health care! The voters were definitely sending a message, which was that Obama should have pushed harder, or else been more bipartisan. Many of the morning-after advocates of bipartisanship said Obama's big error was failing to appease the Republican desire for doing something about malpractice insurance and torts. The people hate torts. Except the creamy chocolate kind. 
 The voters of Massachusetts were definitely angry about taxes, although the ones they seemed most ticked off about were in the state. Everyone was really, really angry about the state government. This is a national theme. Vitriol also abounded last November in New Jersey and Virginia. And payback is coming soon in Illinois, which is going to have its primaries in a couple of weeks.
 So many states are knee-deep in debt, and nobody seems to be able to do anything about it since no matter how hard the various governors try to change things, the recalcitrant, entrenched state legislators always resist.
 That drives people crazy, causing them to express their ire by voting out the governors. Or Martha Coakley. The only officials who never get voted out are the legislators. Because they are entrenched.
 Back in 2008, the public swung around to Barack Obama in a big way when the economy suddenly collapsed and John McCain responded by sounding impulsive to the point of flakiness. Things looked scary, and we liked the cool, calm, cerebral guy.
 Now people are less scared than irate because the stock market seems to have come back while they're left behind. The angrier they get, the crazier their political objects of affection become. You can't drive home the point that you're hopping mad by voting for some sensible centrist. Really, the scarier the better. Sarah Palin, be my valentine.
 Meanwhile, about that bright side: Some commentators have been arguing that having 60 votes in the Senate was really more trouble than it was worth. That once the Democrats hit a filibuster-proof majority, they were saddled with unrealistic hopes.
 Now that they're down to 59 votes, the theory is that we'll have such modest expectations that we'll fall down with admiration if the senators manage to get their shoe laces tied in the morning.
 My positive thought is that we should appreciate what a good outlet democracy can be for public dissatisfaction.
 There was a time when, if people got worried about the way things were going, they would throw a virgin off the side of a cliff. Now they just kill a politician. And only metaphorically! Is this a great country, or what? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (87%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); BUDGETS (66%); REFERENDUMS (64%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (90%); MARTHA COAKLEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); GLENN BECK (68%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); AFGHANISTAN (66%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



597 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Defeat Imperils Health Care Overhaul

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE; David M. Herszenhorn contributed reporting for this article from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Scott Brown's decisive Senate victory in Massachusetts imperiled the fate of the Democratic health care overhaul as House Democrats indicated they would not quickly approve a Senate-passed health care measure and send it to President Obama.
 After a meeting of House Democratic leaders Tuesday night even as Mr. Brown's victory was being declared, top lawmakers said they were weighing their options. But the prospect of passing the health care overhaul by pushing the Senate plan through the House appeared to significantly diminish. 
 Noting that the election in Massachusetts turned on a variety of different factors like the economy and local issues, Representative Chris Van Hollen, Democrat of Maryland and a top party campaign strategist, acknowledged that resistance to the emerging health legislation also factored in the outcome of the Massachusetts race.
 ''Health care was also part of the debate, and the people of Massachusetts were right to be upset about provisions in the Senate bill,'' Mr. Van Hollen said, referring to ''special deals'' included in the bill to win the votes of Democratic senators and round up 60 votes.
 The comment was a clear indication that Democrats were recalibrating their approach on health care, leaving them a diminishing and politically difficult set of choices.
 Pushing the Senate plan through the House was favored by some lawmakers and strategists as a way to quickly deliver the president a bill on a signature domestic achievement, since it would require just one final House vote. Remaining problems could be worked out with a subsequent piece of legislation.
 But many House Democrats expressed deep reservations about the Senate bill. Those complaints, combined with the message sent by the Massachusetts electorate, apparently were sufficient to leave Speaker Nancy Pelosi and her lieutenants reluctant by Tuesday night about moving in that direction.
 Democrats now face decisions on whether to give up on the health care fight -- an approach few lawmakers appear willing to entertain -- or perhaps pull together a scaled-back measure and use special procedural rules that would eliminate the need for 60 votes in the Senate. But it is not clear how many of the key provisions of the legislation could be passed under such a procedure.
 At the same time, Mr. Brown appeared likely to claim his seat quickly, as Democrats said their new Republican colleague would be sworn in as soon as he could present documents certifying his election. When he takes office, Democrats will no longer have the 60 votes needed to surmount a certain Republican filibuster of the legislation.
 ''The people of Massachusetts have spoken,'' Senator Harry Reid, the Nevada Democrat and majority leader, said. The timing of Mr. Brown's swearing in has in fact been a point of contention. Republicans and conservative activists have raised the possibility that Democrats might stall and use the delay to force through a final health care bill while Senator Paul Kirk, the Democrat appointed to the seat, was still a member of the Senate.
 Democrats had discounted that possibility and such a plan seemed all but dead Tuesday as Senator James Webb, a Virginia Democrat and supporter of the measure, called for the Senate to take no votes on health care legislation until Mr. Brown could assume the seat vacated by the late Edward M. Kennedy.
 The White House, signaling a recognition of the new political terrain, even referred to Mr. Brown as ''Senator Brown'' in a statement, suggesting that Democrats would not maneuver to delay his swearing-in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); FILIBUSTER (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); POLITICS (78%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US PRESIDENTS (72%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (89%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (73%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); NANCY PELOSI (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



598 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 355 words

HEADLINE: Wealth Management Unit Lifts Bank of New York

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Bank of New York Mellon said Wednesday that it fourth-quarter profit surged as asset and wealth management revenue offset lower interest income.
 Profit rose to $593 million, or 49 cents a share, from $28 million, or 2 cents a share. Excluding discontinued operations, a tax benefit, a restructuring charge and other items, adjusted profit totaled $728 million, or 60 cents a share. 
 Analysts expected earnings a share of 51 cents, according to Thomson Reuters. 
 Asset and wealth management fees rose 5 percent to $736 million, in part because of the acquisition of Insight Investment Management, which closed during the quarter.
 Meanwhile, low interest rates hurt the bank's net interest income, which slid 31 percent to $724 million.
 ''The persistent low interest rate environment globally increasingly challenged our net interest revenue and fee revenue,'' the chief executive, Robert P. Kelly, said in a statement.
 U.S. BANCORPThe Minneapolis-based regional bank, U.S. Bancorp said on Wednesday that its fourth-quarter profit more than doubled from a year ago, as mortgage banking revenue grew.
 The bank also benefited from growth in traditional deposits, giving it a cheap source of money for loans.
 It still wrote off more bad loans in the quarter, and expected those write-offs will increase in this quarter as well, because of economic conditions and weak home prices.
 Net loan charge-offs were $1.11 billion, up 6.6 percent from the third quarter. It said the upward trends in charge-offs and bad loans ''continue to moderate and credit costs overall remain very manageable.''
 In a hopeful sign, the bank said the percentage of loans in the early stages of delinquency (running 30 to 89 days late) fell compared to the third quarter.
 The bank said it earned $580 million, or 30 cents a share, for the last three months of 2009, up from $259 million, or 15 cents a share, a year ago.
 The profit and its $4.38 billion in revenue were better than analysts expected.
 US Bancorp has been under pressure to raise its quarterly dividend from the current 5 cents per share. It's taking a wait-and-see approach, though.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (92%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (90%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TRENDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); HOME PRICES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (97%); U S BANCORP (70%); RBC WEALTH MANAGEMENT (57%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (97%); USB (NYSE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%)

PERSON: ROBERT P KELLY (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



599 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1327 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Senate Victory Stuns Democrats

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER; Reporting was contributed by Katie Zezima, Danielle Ossher and Bret Silverberg in Massachusetts, and Carl Hulse and David M. Herszenhorn in Washington.

DATELINE: BOSTON 

 BODY:
Scott Brown, a little-known Republican state senator, rode an old pickup truck and a growing sense of unease among independent voters to an extraordinary upset Tuesday night when he was elected to fill the Senate seat that was long held by Edward M. Kennedy in the overwhelmingly Democratic state of Massachusetts.
 By a decisive margin, Mr. Brown defeated Martha Coakley, the state's attorney general, who had been considered a prohibitive favorite to win just over a month ago after she easily won the Democratic primary.
 With all precincts counted, Mr. Brown had 52 percent of the vote to Ms. Coakley's 47 percent. 
 ''Tonight the independent voice of Massachusetts has spoken,'' Mr. Brown told his cheering supporters in a victory speech, standing in front of a backdrop that said ''The People's Seat.''
 The election left Democrats in Congress scrambling to salvage a bill overhauling the nation's health care system, which the late Mr. Kennedy had called ''the cause of my life.'' Mr. Brown has vowed to oppose the bill, and once he takes office the Democrats will no longer control the 60 votes in the Senate needed to overcome filibusters.
 There were immediate signs that the bill had become imperiled. House members indicated they would not quickly pass the bill the Senate approved last month.
 And after the results were announced, one centrist Democratic senator, Jim Webb of Virginia, called on Senate leaders to suspend any votes on the Democrats' health care legislation until Mr. Brown is sworn into office. The election, he said, was a referendum on both health care and the integrity of the government process.
 Beyond the bill, the election of a man supported by the Tea Party movement also represented an unexpected reproach by many voters to President Obama after his first year in office, and struck fear into the hearts of Democratic lawmakers, who are already worried about their prospects in the midterm elections later this year.
 Mr. Brown was able to appeal to independents who were anxious about the economy and concerned about the direction taken by Democrats, now that they control both Beacon Hill and Washington. He rallied his supporters when he said, at the last debate, that he was not running for Mr. Kennedy's seat but for ''the people's seat.''
 On Wednesday morning, he described himself as ''someone who's always been accountable and attentive and an independent thinker and voter, and looking at every single issue on its merits, whether it's a good Democrat idea or a good Republican idea.'' In an appearance on NBC's ''Today'' show he cited taxation, government spending and terrorism along with health care as his priorities. ''People are angry,'' he said. ''They're tired of the backroom deals. They want transparency. They want good government. They want fairness. And they want people to start working and solving their problems.''
 Even so, his election was a sharp swing of the pendulum. The Senate seat held for nearly half a century by Mr. Kennedy, the liberal lion of the Senate, will now be held for the next two years by a Republican who has said he supports waterboarding as an interrogation technique for terrorism suspects, opposes a federal cap-and-trade program to reduce carbon emissions and opposes a path to citizenship for illegal immigrants unless they leave the country.
 In interviews on election day, even Democratic voters said they wanted the Obama administration to change direction.
 ''I'm hoping that it gives a message to the country,'' said Marlene Connolly, 73, of North Andover, a lifelong Democrat who said she cast her first vote for a Republican on Tuesday. ''I think if Massachusetts puts Brown in, it's a message of 'that's enough.' Let's stop the giveaways and let's get jobs going.''
 Mr. Brown ran strongest in the suburbs of Boston, where the independent voters who make up a majority in Massachusetts turned out in large numbers. Ms. Coakley did best in urban areas, winning overwhelmingly in Boston and running ahead in Springfield, Worcester, Fall River and New Bedford, but her margins were not large enough to carry her to victory.
 In a concession speech before cheering supporters, Ms. Coakley acknowledged that voters were angry and said she had hoped to deal with the concerns.
 ''Our mission continues, and our work goes on,'' she said, echoing well-known remarks by Mr. Kennedy. ''I am heartbroken at the result, as I know you are, and I know we will get up together tomorrow and continue this fight, even with this result tonight.''
 The crowd at Mr. Brown's victory rally, upset by reports that Democrats might try to vote on the health care bill before he takes office, chanted, ''Seat him now!'' Mr. Brown, for his part, noted that the interim senator holding the seat had finished his work, and that he was ready to go to Washington ''without delay.'' And he effusively praised Mr. Kennedy as a big-hearted, tireless worker, and said that he hoped to prove a worthy successor to him.
 Ms. Coakley's defeat, in a state that Mr. Obama won in 2008 with 62 percent of the vote, led to a round of finger-pointing among Democrats. Some criticized her tendency for gaffes -- in a radio interview she offended Red Sox fans when she incorrectly suggested that Curt Schilling, a beloved former Red Sox pitcher, was a Yankee fan -- while others criticized a lackluster, low-key campaign.
 Mr. Brown presented himself as a Massachusetts Everyman, featuring the pickup truck he drives around the state in his speeches and one of his television commercials, calling in to talk radio shows and campaigning with popular local sports figures.
 The implications of the election drew nationwide attention, and millions of dollars of outside spending, to the race. It transformed what many had expected to be a sleepy, low-turnout special election on a snowy day in January into a high-profile contest that appeared to draw more voters than expected to the polls. There were reports of traffic jams outside suburban polling stations, while other polling stations had to call for extra ballots.
 The late surge by Mr. Brown appeared to catch Democrats by surprise, causing them to scramble in the last week and a half of the campaign and hastily schedule an appearance by Mr. Obama with Ms. Coakley on Sunday afternoon.
 ''Understand what's at stake here, Massachusetts,'' Mr. Obama said in his speech that day, repeatedly invoking Mr. Kennedy's legacy. ''It's whether we're going forwards or backwards.'' He all but pleaded with voters to support Ms. Coakley, to preserve his agenda.
 As voters went to the polls, Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, made it clear that the president was ''not pleased'' with the situation Ms. Coakley found herself in. ''He was both surprised and frustrated,'' Mr. Gibbs said.
 Although the race has riveted the nation largely because it was seen as contributing to the success or defeat of the health care bill, the potency of the issue for voters here was difficult to gauge. That is because Massachusetts already has near-universal health coverage, thanks to a law passed when Mitt Romney, a Republican, was governor.
 Thus Massachusetts is one of the few states where the benefits promised by the national bill were expected to have little effect on how many of its residents got coverage, making it an unlikely place for a referendum on the health care bill.
 On Capitol Hill, the fate of the health care legislation was highly uncertain as Democratic leaders quickly gathered to plot strategy in the wake of the Republican victory.
 Sentiment about how to proceed was mixed, with several lawmakers saying the House would not accept the Senate-passed plan. Top officials had said that approach was the party's best alternative, and many members said they still believed it was crucial that Democrats pass a plan.
 ''It is important for us to pass legislation,'' said Representative Baron P. Hill, a conservative Democrat from Indiana.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); FILIBUSTER (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (76%); REFERENDUMS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); HEALTH CARE (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TERRORISM (50%); APPROVALS (50%)

PERSON: SCOTT BROWN (91%); TED KENNEDY (78%); MARTHA COAKLEY (74%); JIM WEBB (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010



600 of 948 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2010 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 21, 2010
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: The Massachusetts Election

 BODY:
If anyone should have seen it coming in Massachusetts, it is President Obama -- the long-shot candidate who rode to electoral victory on a wave of popular impatience and an ability to identify and address voters' core anxieties.
 There are many theories about the import of Scott Brown's upset victory in the race for Edward Kennedy's former Senate seat. To our minds, it is not remotely a verdict on Mr. Obama's presidency, nor does it amount to a national referendum on health care reform -- even though it has upended the effort to pass a reform bill, which Mr. Obama made the centerpiece of his first year. 
 Mr. Obama has done many important things on the environment, and in foreign affairs, and in preventing the nation's banking system from collapsing in the face of a financial crisis he inherited. But he seems to have lost touch with two core issues for Americans: their jobs and their homes.
 Mr. Obama's challenge is that most Americans are not seeing a recovery. They are seeing 10 percent unemployment and a continuing crisis in the housing market. They have watched as the federal government rescued banks, financial firms and auto companies, but they themselves feel adrift, still awaiting the kind of decisive leadership on jobs and housing -- in terms of both style and substance -- that Mr. Obama promised in 2008.
 Mr. Obama was right to press for health care reform. But he spent too much time talking to reluctant Democrats and Republicans who never had the slightest intention of supporting him. He sat on the sidelines while the Republicans bombarded Americans with false but effective talk of death panels and a government takeover of their doctors' offices. And he did not make the case strongly enough that the health care system and the economy are deeply interconnected or explain why Americans should care about this huge issue in the midst of a recession: If they lose their jobs, they lose their health insurance. 
 Mr. Obama has not said or done the right thing often enough when it comes to job creation and housing. He appointed an economics team that was entwined with the people and policies that nearly destroyed the economy. He made compromises that resulted in a stimulus bill that wasn't big enough or properly targeted. Even now, despite a new, rather awkward populist tone, serious relief for homeowners is lacking and financial regulatory reform is in danger of being hijacked by banking lobbyists and partisan politics. 
 The victory by Mr. Brown, a Republican, should be setting off alarms in the White House. Most immediately, it jeopardizes passage of the reform that the nation desperately needs. The Democrats could try to get the House to pass the Senate's bill, although their chances seem dim, or as Mr. Obama seemed to suggest on Wednesday, they could seek a stripped-down measure that could win bipartisan support. They certainly should not try to ram a combined House-Senate bill through the Senate before Mr. Brown is sworn in.
 The Democrats had an exceptionally weak candidate in Massachusetts, but the results call into question their tactical political competence. The party now has less than 10 months to get it right before the midterm elections, when they are in danger of losing more seats in the House and the Senate. It is indisputable that the Republicans have settled on a tactic of obstruction, disinformation and fear-mongering, but it is equally indisputable that the Democrats have not countered it well. 
 Mr. Obama has three years to show the kind of vision and leadership on the economy that got him elected -- not just because his chances of a second term are at stake, but because the nation needs to get a handle on joblessness and mortgages or the nascent economic recovery could turn into a lost decade or a double-dip recession, or both. 
 The president is fighting hard for a consumer financial protection agency, in part because he sees it as one element of financial reform that people will understand. What Mr. Obama has to understand is that the agency is unlikely to be as effective as he intends unless other parts of financial reform -- regulating derivatives and limiting ''too big too fail'' banks -- also are robust. And homeowners need mortgage relief -- not just lower interest rates, but the ability to renegotiate and restructure their loan balances.
 We admire Mr. Obama's intelligence and the careful way he makes decisions. It is reported that he seeks out dissenting views doggedly. He tells Americans the truth. We don't want Mr. Obama to turn into a hot populist, but he can be too cool and often waits too long to react at big moments. If White House reporters are still making jokes two years from now about checking the president's pulse, the nation will be in big trouble.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (89%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); POLITICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); LOBBYING (76%); REAL ESTATE (74%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); LAYOFFS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); HOMEOWNERS (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (70%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (68%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (68%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (67%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); TED KENNEDY (58%); SCOTT BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

 
