

801 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; MORTGAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Fewer First-Time Buyers

BYLINE: By LISA PREVOST

 BODY:
TWO recent national surveys of real estate agents suggest that first-time buyers are on the decline, their access to the housing market blocked by tight credit and eager investors.
Roughly 3,000 agents surveyed by the National Association of Realtors from Oct. 22 to Nov. 5 reported that just 31 percent of their sales were to first-time buyers. Normally, first-time buyers represent closer to 40 percent of the market, according to the survey.
Likewise, a monthly tracking survey of about 2,500 agents, this one conducted in October by Campbell Surveys and Inside Mortgage Finance, showed the first-time buyer's share of the market at 34.7 percent. That's the lowest percentage recorded in the survey's three-year history, according to Thomas Popik, Campbell's research director. 
The survey results also demonstrated how heavily first-time buyers rely on loans backed by the Federal Housing Administration. These mortgage loans are attractive to first-timers with moderate incomes because the down-payment requirement is just 3.5 percent. About half of first-time buyers now use F.H.A. financing, Mr. Popik said.
But these loans are becoming more costly, which could be contributing to the drop-off in new buyers. The financially troubled agency raised its rates for mortgage insurance this year, and has announced plans to do so again next year. Although that increase will amount to only 0.1 percent of the loan amount, the higher premiums do make it harder for people already facing tight lending standards, Mr. Popik noted.
''Today's market is all about the availability of financing,'' he said, ''not the interest rates.''
Uncertainty about coming regulatory changes is making community lenders all the more cautious about approving loans to first-time buyers, said David Wind, the president and chief executive of the Guaranteed Home Mortgage Company in White Plains.
The Realtors' survey also noted that cash-rich investors are crowding out hunters of lower-priced properties.
Still, new-buyer activity may be stronger in the New York metropolitan area than national surveys suggest. ''It's very hard to lump this market with the rest of the country,'' said Jordan Roth, a senior branch manager of GFI Mortgage Bankers in Manhattan. ''It's very geographically distinct.''
At least anecdotally, Mr. Roth said, he has seen a ''tremendous increase'' in new buyers in the tristate region over the last year. High rents and low vacancy rates are driving the purchase activity among people who have their finances in order, he added. ''People have been reading about the strict credit regulations, and have taken the necessary steps that will improve their credit and allow them to buy,'' Mr. Roth said.
Peter Grabel, a senior mortgage loan originator for the Luxury Mortgage Corporation in Stamford, Conn., is also seeing new buyers who feel they are being priced out of the New York rental market. In the higher price ranges, for which Federal Housing Administration loans are unavailable, first-time buyers are frequently using cash gifts from relatives to meet the hefty down-payment requirements, he said.
Webster Bank, which has branches in Connecticut, New York, Massachusetts and Rhode Island, has seen a rise in its first-time buyer business this year. Like many lenders, the bank has gone after first-time buyers with an education outreach program aimed at both real estate agents and potential borrowers.
Some would-be buyers are sitting on the sidelines because they are unfamiliar with first-time buyer programs, and don't realize that it may be costing them more to rent than to own, said Simon Tahan, the bank's senior vice president for sales and distribution.
Purchase loans represented 16 percent of Webster's mortgage loans in January. Now, Mr. Tahan said, purchases represent closer to 36 percent.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: INDEX FOR ADJUSTABLE RATE MORTGAGES: 1-year Treasury rate (Source: HSH.com) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); CREDIT REGULATION (77%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); MORTGAGE INSURANCE (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%)

COMPANY: INSIDE MORTGAGE FINANCE PUBLICATIONS INC (57%); GFI MORTGAGE BANKERS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (87%) NEW YORK, USA (87%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



802 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE NEEDIEST CASES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: After Losing Job in '09, Woman Is Impeded Again After Trying to Rebuild

BYLINE: By JOHN OTIS

 BODY:
Water rushed into Annmarie Nicholson's basement apartment through the creases of her closed windows. Although the torrent did not shatter the glass, its power was enough to force the front door shut and transform the home into a cistern in just 15 minutes.
Ms. Nicholson was at home in New Dorp, Staten Island, half a mile from the beach, when the storm surge from Hurricane Sandy came. She was trapped in the apartment for 12 hours, perched on a small ledge on the wall, her head poking through punched-out ceiling tiles in order to stay above water that had risen as high as her neck. 
''If it kept coming, I would have drowned there,'' Ms. Nicholson, 43, said. ''You just wait for somebody to rescue you and hope to God that no more water comes. You can't stop shaking and shivering. In my head, I'm in Aruba, I'm on a beach.''
Her ''go bag'' and her cat were in her arms when the apartment was breached by a fetid mix of saltwater and sewage. Minutes later, all of her possessions were destroyed, and a glance out the window showed the apartment was submerged.
''Everything was floating,'' she said. ''It looked like 'Titanic.' I didn't even get out of there with the clothes on my back. Everything was contaminated.''
Just days before, she had paid off back rent, which totaled more than $7,000. Her debt had accrued after she was laid off in 2009 from her job as an assistant trader at a Wall Street firm, where she once earned about $65,000 a year. She has struggled to find comparable work ever since.
''People tell you you're overqualified,'' she said. ''That's another word for 'We don't want to pay you what you're worth.' ''
After her unemployment insurance ended in August 2011, she tried to make ends meet by selling her personal effects, including gifts of jewelry from her parents, and depleting nearly all her savings.
In July, Ms. Nicholson was referred to the Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty, which has an office at the Jewish Community Center of Staten Island, for assistance. Met Council and JCC of Staten Island are beneficiary agencies of UJA-Federation of New York, one of the organizations supported by The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund.
Met Council used $1,350 from the fund to help Ms. Nicholson pay her rent. The city's Human Resources Administration and the Dr. Theodore A. Atlas Foundation also contributed funds.
''Everything I was fighting so hard to keep -- to keep a roof over my head, keep everything intact -- in 15 minutes, everything's gone,'' Ms. Nicholson said.
Among her waterlogged belongings was a computer system that she had given to her landlord as collateral. As a surprise, he had returned the entire work station and her desk just four days before the storm. She has known her landlord and his wife for seven years, she said, and they are like family.
Ms. Nicholson was rescued at 8 the next morning, when neighbors returned to their homes. The water had receded to waist level, and Ms. Nicholson and her cat, which had been safely tucked above her ceiling tiles during the ordeal, were pulled from the apartment through a window. An emergency crew had come down her street at 3 a.m., but did not hear Ms. Nicholson's shouts for help. She remained in the filthy, freezing water for five more hours.
''Thank God I'm a home health aide and got all my medical shots,'' she said, referring to her new career.
In April, Ms. Nicholson enrolled in a monthlong training program through FEGS Health and Human Services to become a certified home health aide. Since June, she has been working 40 to 50 hours, seven days a week, in Manhattan, earning $9 an hour. The public assistance benefits she began receiving in April ended when she started her job. Though she enjoys what she now does for a living, she said she was still looking for a job on Wall Street.
One week after the storm, Ms. Nicholson returned to work. Even though she has commuted on the Staten Island Ferry nearly all her life, she said the trips across the water were now a source of anxiety.
Since the storm, she has been living with a new friend, Judy Davison, who opened up her home to Ms. Nicholson and her cat. Ms. Davison was a volunteer she met while staying at Susan E. Wagner High School, which operated as a shelter after the storm.
Ms. Nicholson hopes that when her own apartment is repaired and renovated, sometime early next year, she will be able to live unburdened by fearful flashbacks or heartache over all she has lost.
''To see your whole life in garbage bags, just on the curb, it's horrible,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: During Hurricane Sandy, Annmarie Nicholson was trapped in water as high as her neck in her apartment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ÁNGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Previously recorded $3,375,394 Recorded Wed. 182,251 Total* $3,557,645 Last year to date $3,320,812 *Includes $709,856 contributed to the Hurricane Sandy relief efforts. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEACHES (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); HURRICANES (76%); HURRICANE SANDY (71%); HUMAN RESOURCES (68%); CATS (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (61%); JEWS & JUDAISM (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); ARUBA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



803 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2810 words

HEADLINE: The War Against Too Much of Everything

BYLINE: By JEFF SOMMER

 BODY:
IF you haven't finished your holiday shopping yet, don't bother.
Skip the mall and the neighborhood store, resist the urge to shop online and, by all means, don't buy anything you don't truly need.
So says Kalle Lasn, 70, maestro of the proudly radical magazine Adbusters, published in Vancouver, British Columbia. Mr. Lasn takes gleeful pleasure in lobbing provocations at global corporations -- and his latest salvo is ''Buy Nothing Christmas.''
''As our planet gets warmer, as animals go extinct, as the humans get sicker, as our economies bail and our politicians grow ever more twisted,'' Americans just go shopping, Adbusters says on its Web site. Overconsumption is destroying us, yet shopping is ''our solace, our sedative: consumerism is the opiate of the masses.''
''We've got to break the habit,'' Mr. Lasn said in a telephone interview. ''It will be a shock, but we've got to shift to a new paradigm. Otherwise, I'm afraid will be facing a new Dark Age.'' 
Of course, retailers will be facing a Dark Age if people really stop shopping. And because consumer spending accounts for roughly 70 percent of United States gross domestic product, an abrupt shift to nonconsumption would drive the already faltering economy to its knees.
There are no signs that consumers are heeding Mr. Lasn's call, says Marshal Cohen, chief retail analyst at the NPD Group. ''I find that people are shoppers or they're not,'' he said. ''Shoppers keep shopping.''
So it's easy to dismiss this latest campaign as yet another empty gesture from a figure on the radical fringe. Why take Mr. Lasn's words seriously?
Well, last year, a campaign prompted by Mr. Lasn and his magazine improbably caught fire. It was Occupy Wall Street.
Adbusters gave Occupy its name and opening date and designed the poster with Occupy's defining image: an elegant ballerina perched atop Wall Street's raging bull while gas-masked figures loomed in the background. The poster contained this text: ''What Is Our One Demand? #OccupyWallStreet. Sept. 17th. Bring Tent.'' A digital version went viral.
Mr. Lasn's main role in the Zuccotti Park occupation, however, pretty much ended there: he remained in Vancouver, never visiting the Lower Manhattan encampment and participating in the local organizational work that made it possible. But his contribution began long before then.
Born in Estonia, Mr. Lasn lived for several years in German resettlement camps with his parents after they fled the advancing Soviet army toward the end of World War II. The family moved to Australia when he was 7. He graduated from the University of Adelaide, where he studied theoretical and applied mathematics and then worked four years for the Australian military, writing computer code for war games.
Then he moved to Tokyo, where the skills he developed in Australia served him well. He started a market research company and, he says, did computer-based studies of ad campaigns for global corporations. The work was lucrative, and he used his money to see the world. It was 1968, and a left-wing student rebellion in Paris resonated worldwide. He says he imbibed the spirit of rebellion, and it changed him.
''Until Occupy, the greatest political movement I'd ever seen was the uprising of '68. It really inspired me, and I've been running on that energy -- and have been trying to recapture it -- ever since.''
LAST year, he says, he did recapture it. Stirred by the uprisings in Algeria, Tunisia and Egypt -- the Arab Spring -- he and colleagues at Adbusters ''began to consider the possibilities of achieving a soft regime change in the United States, of finding some way to tap into the revolutionary zeitgeist.'' Out of those discussions came the idea of Occupy Wall Street.
Max Haiven, a postdoctoral fellow in art and public policy at New York University, who has studied Adbusters for years, said: ''That was a fantastic initiative for them. They've been in global anticonsumption battles for years, and Adbusters has called for many big campaigns that never really happened. This one did. In a way, they got lucky.''
He added: ''What led to Occupy Wall Street taking off was not just the iconic image of the ballerina and the bull but a number of factors -- including on-the-ground activists building an organization through many, many meetings and relationships and hard work in New York and elsewhere. Adbusters didn't do that. Other people did it.''
Mr. Lasn acknowledges the truth of that, and says he's not a community organizer and certainly not a graceful politician. ''I've said some things that have pissed people off,'' he says. And it's not just corporations like Nike, McDonald's and Philip Morris that have been stung by him. Israel's policies toward Palestinians are an Adbusters target.
A blog post in February 2011, for example, ''Friends Don't Let Friends Violate International Law,'' compared Israel to a drunk friend: ''For over half a century, America has been Israel's bartender and enabler: each year dumping billions of dollars in military aid that is used to oppress Palestinians.''
The Anti-Defamation League, a Jewish advocacy organization, says the magazine's provocative statements have occasionally contained anti-Semitic elements.
''While anti-Semitism is not part of their overarching message or mission, Adbusters makes no apologies for spreading Jewish conspiracy theories and promoting offensive analogies to the Holocaust,'' said Abraham H. Foxman, the league's national director. ''Some people want to get attention to their cause, but unfortunately Adbusters has found it convenient at times to play into age-old conspiracy theories about Jewish control of the government in an effort to get attention to themselves.''
In one instance, in 2004, Mr. Lasn published a list of 50 people who, he said, were prominent American neoconservatives and influenced American policy in the Iraq war. Half of them appeared to be Jewish, he wrote, and affixed a mark next to those names. He said American Jews tended to vote Democratic and that many were opposed to the Bush administration's foreign policy and to at least some Israeli policies. But, he said, the ''neocons seem to have a special affinity for Israel that influences their political thinking and consequently American foreign policy in the Middle East.''
In an interview, Mr. Lasn said he was ''naïve'' in publishing that list. ''I had no idea of what the effect would be,'' he said, ''and if I could do it over again I'd do it differently.''
He added that ''I don't have an anti-Semitic bone in my body'' and that ''when I was young one of my dreams was to live on a kibbutz.'' He said he admired many of Israel's founders, ''who were lefties,'' but says, ''I must admit that lately I think Israel has been making a big mistake, and I think it's important to say it.''
One of Mr. Lasn's favorite words is ''meme,'' as in: ''Adbusters floated the meme of occupying the iconic heart of global capitalism.'' The biologist Richard Dawkins coined the term: a meme is a unit of cultural information spread among people like a gene. Spreading radically subversive memes is Mr. Lasn's avowed mission.
He has written a new Adbusters book, ''Meme Wars: The Creative Destruction of Neoclassical Economics'' (Seven Stories Press). It is a lavishly illustrated collection, with photographs, drawings and essays that exhort university students to become ''meme warriors'' and revolutionize the field of economics. Like the magazine, the book elaborates on an old theme: his belief that core economic values must shift from profit-making and expansion of the gross domestic product toward improvement of human health and protection of the planet.
Accomplishing that requires overturning economic orthodoxy and capitalism as we know it, he says. ''We have to do this,'' he says. ''With climate change, and the exhaustion of the planet's resources. I believe the alternative is apocalypse.''
Despite these portents of doom, he says, ''the waves of global activism that we've been seeing, with Occupy and everything else -- this fills me with more optimism than I've felt for many years.''
THE magazine is published by the nonprofit Adbusters Media Foundation, of which Mr. Lasn was a co-founder in 1989 with a close friend, Bill Schmalz, a wildlife cinematographer. As Mr. Schmalz recalls it, Adbusters arose from a battle over conservation that the two men were waging against a Canadian logging company.
''Basically, they were cutting too many trees for the forest to regenerate,'' Mr. Schmalz, 71, recalled in a telephone interview. ''We wanted that to stop.''
The men met at work. In those days, Mr. Lasn, like Mr. Schmalz, was a documentary filmmaker working on projects for the National Film Board of Canada. He had moved to Canada with his wife, Masako Tominaga, so that he could leave advertising behind and embark on a film career.
What influenced him to head in that direction? He says it was the politics of the '60s, combined with the movies of the era, especially ''The Graduate,'' the social satire. Mr. Lasn says he identified with its young star, Dustin Hoffman, who played a newly minted college graduate about to take up a career in what was then the hot new corporate field: ''plastics.'' He rebels instead. ''In his own way, he was a revolutionary,'' Mr. Lasn says. ''In his own way, he stumbled through life and had some epiphanies and seemed to come out O.K. at the end.''
Mr. Schmalz and Mr. Lasn collaborated on a 30-second television spot on the log-cutting controversy, but they were denied airtime. They started a long, inconclusive legal battle for the right to broadcast their ''uncommercial,'' and decided to start a newsletter, Mr. Schmalz recalls. In 1992, it became Adbusters magazine.
Even then, he says, the focus was on protecting the earth's battered environment, fighting against overconsumption and jousting with corporate giants.
Mr. Lasn set the tone. ''Kalle's a feisty guy and that comes across in the radical voice of the magazine,'' says Mr. Schmalz, now semiretired. ''Some of what you're seeing and hearing is really just attention-getting.''
Adbusters became a multimedia platform for barbed social and political critique. The ad industry has been a favorite target. A series of satirical print ''subvertisements'' uses what Mr. Lasn calls ''jujitsu'' to turn a company's own ad campaigns into a liability. He terms this approach ''culture jamming.''
Consider Adbusters' mordant ''Joe Chemo'' ads. They show Joe Camel, the tobacco mascot, receiving treatment for cancer.
Today, the Internet provides an outlet for the organization's video ''uncommercials.'' They are discomfiting, especially if you're a target. In a spoof of McDonald's, a juicy Big Mac is lifted toward a consumer's face as an announcer officiously describes its fat content. The consumer drops the burger in disgust.
In another video, a young man on a couch watches TV. ''Your living room is the factory,'' a deep voice intones. ''The product being manufactured is you.'' The camera swivels to the back of the man's neck, revealing a tattooed bar code.
''TV Turnoff Week,'' held in April, was perhaps the most successful Adbusters campaign before Occupy Wall Street. It urged ''addicted television watchers to just turn off the set and cleanse their minds,'' Mr. Lasn says. ''Addictions have broadened,'' he says, and that campaign has become ''Digital Detox Week,'' aimed at getting people to turn off all of their digital devices, meditate, enjoy the quiet and spend time with family and friends.
Then there's the ''Consumer Pig'' video. It depicts North Americans as voracious despoilers who can't bear to stop shopping. ''Give it a rest,'' an announcer intones in a promotion for the ''Buy Nothing Day'' campaign. That effort takes place in the United States on Black Friday, the day after Thanksgiving, a time of intense bargain-hunting. Adbusters asks shoppers to cease and desist.
Buy Nothing Day is the older sibling of Buy Nothing Christmas -- an effort to extend one day of abstention to the entire holiday season. Mr. Lasn says it was the idea of a former editor at Adbusters, Aiden Enns.
Mr. Enns now lives in Winnipeg, Manitoba, from which he operates a separate Web site for the campaign, in tandem with the Adbusters' effort based in Vancouver. He describes himself as a ''progressive Mennonite'' and says his approach is a ''pretty mellow campaign not driven by high-energy organizers.''
Advocating a life of material simplicity and spiritual richness, Mr. Enns urges people to ''make things for others themselves, not to just go out and buy.'' He says he and his wife make gifts like wooden figurines and animal dolls for children, and salsa and relish for adults.
''The point is that we make them ourselves,'' he says. ''They're a gesture of love.''
He says he is in general agreement with Mr. Lasn and with Occupy Wall Street. ''I believe our economy isn't sustainable,'' he says. ''I believe it needs to change.''
But as a pacifist, he adds, he is at odds with elements of the global Occupy movement.
Mr. Lasn's words and tactics are more combative. From his Vancouver base, he says he is trying to ''re-energize'' the Christmas campaign.
Adbusters is asking demonstrators to storm Times Square, ''the iconic center of global capitalism'' -- and march around with ''#BuyNothingXmas'' signs through New Year's Day. There hadn't been much response as of Friday, but no matter: sparks don't always catch fire.
MR. LASN freely acknowledges that he is inconsistent -- enmeshed in the advertising-saturated material world he is battling. For example, he doesn't make gifts for friends and family; he buys them -- usually, smoked salmon and vodka.
''They love it,'' he says. ''I love it. That's why I do it.'' The vodka is usually Stolichnaya, however, not Absolut, whose stylish ads are skewered by Adbusters.
One such subversive ad is a poster, ''Absolute on Ice.'' Bathed in unearthly blue light, the sole of a foot is visible on a morgue gurney bearing the tag ''D.O.A.''
And Mr. Lasn says his lifestyle isn't really sustainable. He commutes 30 minutes each way from the magazine to his home on five acres of countryside. He and his wife are occupying too much land, and his little Toyota Echo burns too much fuel for the planet's health, he says: ''What can I do? Living there helps to keep me sane.''
And despite all of those online campaigns, Mr. Lasn is an analog man in a digital world. He favors spoken conversations, not e-mail or text messages, and owns only a simple cellphone -- no iPhone or iPad for him.
He doesn't use the cellphone often. It's locked in his car. ''It's there for emergencies,'' he says.
Mr. Lasn does the initial design and editing of Adbusters on paper. Digitally savvy colleagues transfer his work online. The magazine's paid circulation, which Mr. Lasn says is 60,000 to 70,000 worldwide, is overwhelmingly print, not digital. Digital subscriptions and downloads are cumbersome and must be improved, he says, although he doesn't understand the processes.
''We'll be working on this,'' he says. ''It's odd. We're a print magazine. But already, most people come to Adbusters through our Web site and our list-serv and on Twitter.'' He is also trying to revitalize another Adbusters project, the sale of Blackspot Unswooshers -- its own brand of ''sustainable, fair trade'' hightop sneakers. The shoes, he says, pose a challenge of sorts to ''that multi-billion-dollar brand, Nike.''
''On a very limited budget we are using Nike's own brand power against them,'' he adds. ''We're unswooshing them.''
But he says the sneakers haven't caught on the way they should. The original Blackspots, which bear a passing resemblance to Converse Chuck Taylors, will be discontinued. ''We haven't really gotten the idea of our brand out there successfully yet -- the idea that indie businesses can really combat global megacorporations.''
THAT message may be the problem. Adbusters has been criticized as confusing the issue: asking people not to go brand-name shopping but asking them to buy its own brand. As Joseph Heath and Andrew Potter put it in the book, ''Nation of Rebels,'' when Blackspots went on sale in 2003, it became ''obvious to everyone that cultural rebellion, of the type epitomized by Adbusters magazine, is not a threat to the system -- it is the system.''
Such apparent inconsistencies, and the magazine's incendiary tone, can be maddening and even offensive, yet this rambunctious approach is also deeply appealing, some critics say. As Mr. Haiven, of New York University, puts it: ''I've certainly been very critical of them but I'm also very glad they exist. I think they do very important work sometimes, in their own way.''
He adds: ''I think the answer is not so much that they should be doing something different but that there should be more alternatives out there. There is nothing else quite like Adbusters.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An Adbusters message on holiday overconsumption has been mostly ignored, unlike its campaign a year ago that led to Occupy Wall Street. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ADBUSTERS) (BU1)
Adbuster's spoofs highlight many social issues, including the risks of tobacco and alcohol. At top is an Adbuster takeoff on the Joe Camel ads for Camel cigarettes
another, above, takes aim at a campaign for Absolut vodka. Kalle Lasn, right, the magazine's maestro, says that new waves of global activism fill him ''with more optimism than I've felt for many years.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADBUSTERS
 GRANT HARDER) (BU8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (90%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (89%); RETAILERS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (64%); WORLD WAR II (60%); MATHEMATICS (60%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (56%); WEB SITES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ADELAIDE, AUSTRALIA (50%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (88%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CANADA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ESTONIA (69%); AUSTRALIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



804 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL | SUNDAY OBSERVER; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: In India, a Dangerous And Divisive Technocrat

BYLINE: By VIKAS BAJAJ

 BODY:
Last week, Narendra Modi, a deeply polarizing Indian politician, led his party to a third consecutive election victory in the western state of Gujarat, which he has led for more than a decade. Though regional contests in the country are usually of little interest to outsiders, Mr. Modi's win is significant because it sets him up as a presumptive front-runner in the race to become India's next prime minister in elections scheduled for 2014 and casts a spotlight on his controversial rise to power.
Mr. Modi, who comes from a poor Hindu family and was a little-known political operative as recently as 15 years ago, has gained a surprisingly large national following. His core base of supporters is made up of right-wing Hindus who believe he will fight against the benefits and privileges they feel the country has historically lavished on its Muslim minority. But he has also found followers outside that group by focusing on economic growth and competent public administration -- things that many Indian politicians, especially in the country's governing Indian National Congress Party, have perpetually treated as challenges that can be put off for another day. 
To many in India's burgeoning middle class and its thriving business community, that is reason enough to back Mr. Modi, despite the fact that he could inflame sectarian divisions that have subsided somewhat in the last decade but remain unresolved. Through a technocratic approach to public services like electricity and roads, he has led an unprecedented decade of industrial and agricultural growth in Gujarat, an arid state whose people have long had to leave to make their fortunes abroad in places like Africa, Britain and the United States. Now, many businesses, including Ford and General Motors, are setting up factories there.
Ratan Tata, outgoing chairman of India's largest business group, Tata Sons, summed up the confidence many have in Mr. Modi in a TV interview a few years ago: ''One really has a sense of faith in Mr. Modi, that if he says it will be done, it will be done.'' Even before the state election, a poll by Nielsen and India Today magazine found that a plurality of respondents, 21 percent, saw him as the best person to lead India, compared with just 10 percent who favored the second-most-popular candidate, Rahul Gandhi, the scion of the Nehru-Gandhi dynasty that has led the country and the Congress Party for much of the last 65 years.
Mr. Modi's economic record has broad appeal because India's economic growth is slowing and the federal government led by Prime Minister Manmohan Singh of the Congress Party has struggled unsuccessfully to revive it. The government has also been beset by a series of multibillion-dollar corruption scandals involving licensing of industries like mining and telecommunications, which has helped to make Mr. Modi seem like an acceptable option. But Mr. Modi's brand of politics is deeply disturbing. It harks back to the 1990s, when right-wing politicians stoked Hindu-Muslim violence to advance their own rise at the expense of human lives and the economy. Many of the firebrand leaders of that era, including L. K. Advani, have downplayed their sectarian agenda, but not Mr. Modi.
In 2002, soon after he took office as chief minister of Gujarat, he had a chance to show leadership and failed stunningly. After 58 Hindu pilgrims were killed in a train fire in Gujarat that was set by Muslims, mobs butchered nearly 1,000 people, most of them Muslims and among them many women and children. A top state official later told an investigating commission that Mr. Modi ordered officials not to stop the rioters.
Mr. Modi denies those allegations and an investigation commissioned by the Indian Supreme Court cleared him of wrongdoing. But courts have found one of his top aides and dozens of others guilty of various crimes, including murder and arson, committed during the riots. He has refused even to acknowledge that he did not do enough to bring the rioting and killing under control. In his victory speech on Thursday, he offered a vague apology for unspecified mistakes that fell far short of contrition: ''There may have been a time when I hurt someone or when I made a mistake. I ask my 60 million Gujaratis to forgive me.''
Still, his refusal to reckon with what happened in 2002 could well keep him from national office. His party, the Bharatiya Janata Party, is unlikely to win an outright majority in the 2014 elections and will have to rely on support from other political parties. Already, some big parties allied with the B.J.P. in the opposition in Parliament have indicated that they will not support it if Mr. Modi is its candidate for prime minister in 2014. Most of these parties are based in states with large Muslim populations.
''Modi's politics is against the idea of India,'' said Ashutosh Varshney, a political scientist at Brown University and an India scholar. ''The idea of India has a clear place for minorities as minorities, not minorities simply as individuals.''
The Congress Party's inept and feckless management of the economy and the government benefits a politician like Mr. Modi. By blithely squandering the fast growth India enjoyed in recent years without improving education and other public services and reforming the financial system and labor market, the party has given him an opening to become a contender to lead the country.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Narendra Modi is considered a likely candidate for prime minister. (PHOTOGRAPH BY AMIT DAVE/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (75%); RELIGION (75%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); SCANDALS (70%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (62%); CORRUPTION (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: MANMOHAN SINGH (58%); RATAN TATA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST INDIA (92%); GUJARAT, INDIA (88%) INDIA (96%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



805 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; FILM; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1164 words

HEADLINE: Past Is Present Yet Irretrievable

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

 BODY:
LISBON
THE Portuguese director Miguel Gomes makes a virtue of category confusion. He likes to call his films ''musical comedies,'' which is an apt enough phrase if each word is broadly defined, but he also speaks of them in terms of ''mutation'' and ''contamination.'' Their signal attribute is their unpredictability; they often seem to start in one genre and end in another.
In his first feature, ''The Face You Deserve'' (2004), a frustrated children's entertainer dreams his way into a warped version of ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs.'' His second, ''Our Beloved Month of August'' (2008), begins as a documentary about the folk customs of rural Portugal but gets progressively odder as its subjects become characters in an encroaching fiction. 
Mr. Gomes's latest film, ''Tabu,'' which opens in New York on Wednesday, is his most ambitious shape shifter yet. The first section, set in contemporary Lisbon, is the story of Pilar, a devout do-gooding spinster who attends political rallies, haunts movie theaters and indulges the temperamental behavior of her elderly neighbor, Aurora. With the appearance of a man from Aurora's past, the film travels to the misty mountainside plains of a Portuguese colony in Africa decades earlier to tell the story of a bygone romance in the obsolete language of an old movie.
Asked a few months ago why he so often makes films with two-part structures, Mr. Gomes, a former critic whose deadpan sense of humor is evident both in person and in his work, said, ''What counts is the third part, which does not exist in the film but is produced in your mind.''
During a wide-ranging conversation that began over lunch here at a seafood restaurant and continued over a bottle of vinho verde at a hotel bar perched on the city's highest hill, Mr. Gomes returned several times to the notion of cinema as a participatory art. ''We talk about the point of view of the director, but the most important point of view is the one of the viewer,'' he said. ''A film should have a space of freedom for the viewer.''
''Tabu,'' which dispenses with dialogue for half its duration, certainly gives the audience room to roam. Mr. Gomes said he did not set out to make a film in Africa or about colonialism. ''I'm a collector,'' he said, explaining that his movies come together from fragments of inspiration. One unlikely spark this time was a song he used in ''Our Beloved Month of August'' by a Portuguese band popular in 1960s Mozambique. When he met the musicians, he was struck by their unapologetic nostalgia. ''They sounded so attached to this colonial regime,'' he said. ''But what they were missing was their youth.''
''Tabu'' took shape as a movie about ''extinguished things,'' he said, ''dead people, lost societies, a form of cinema that no longer exists.'' The second half is a silent film of sorts. While we hear ambient noises on the soundtrack, the actors' words are drowned out, replaced by the wistful voice-over of an old man named Gian Luca, the love of Aurora's life, recalling their illicit affair as pretty young things in a faraway land.
Shot in radiant black and white by the cinematographer Rui Poças, ''Tabu'' abounds with cinephilic allusions. The film's title and its chapter headings, ''Paradise Lost'' and ''Paradise,'' come from the 1931 movie by F. W. Murnau and Robert Flaherty, a hybrid of poetic ethnography and romantic tragedy. There are nods to safari adventures (''Hatari!'') and colonial love stories (''Out of Africa'').
But while ''Tabu'' concerns the irretrievability of the past, it also affirms that the old can be made new and strange and that blatant artifice can produce genuine emotion. Its prologue -- a fanciful vignette about a grieving hunter who throws himself to the crocodiles -- turns out to be a movie that Pilar is watching. ''At the beginning this feels a bit overdone,'' Mr. Gomes said. ''But what 'Tabu' tries to do is invent a path to get you to that same romantic mood.''
Steeped in the yearning melancholia that the Portuguese call ''saudade,'' ''Tabu'' is also further evidence that the country is home to one of Europe's richest film cultures. The relative isolation during the Salazar dictatorship and the near total absence of a commercial cinema, among other factors, have fostered a hospitable climate for distinctive, risk-taking auteurs, including the venerable Manoel de Oliveira (who turned 104 this month) and João César Monteiro and, more recently, Pedro Costa and João Pedro Rodrigues. As Mr. Gomes put it, ''It's the only advantage of being poor: We could afford a greater amount of freedom than if we were richer.''
But the current situation, with Portugal's economic woes deepening, is not as rosy. The law on film financing is in flux, and state subsidies crucial to production have dried up. Luís Urbano, a producer of ''Tabu'' who has worked on several films with Mr. Gomes, said the recent tumult has been hugely disruptive. ''What we're fighting for,'' he said, '' is a return to a cultural policy that defends the diversity of the films, something that the very small local market can hardly provide.''
''Tabu,'' one of the most widely lauded movies on the festival circuit this year, was also shortlisted for a European Parliament award for films that resonate with the ''public debate,'' an apparent acknowledgment of its unusual approach to the ever thorny subject of colonialism. ''In Portugal when we talk about colonial times, we're obliged to do a speech about how bad it was,'' Mr. Gomes said. ''But to me that's something we know.''
Instead ''Tabu'' evokes the seductions and delusions of the colonial fantasy. ''Her growing belly is like a time bomb,'' Mr. Gomes said, referring to Aurora's pregnancy. ''It's like the political situation of the time. Every other country in Europe had given independence to the colonies, but in Portugal there was still a denial of reality.'' (The African section of ''Tabu'' was shot in Mozambique, a Portuguese colony until 1975.)
In the original ''Tabu,'' ''Paradise,'' which depicts an island idyll, comes before ''Paradise Lost,'' which shows the corrupting force of civilization. Mr. Gomes reverses the order. We see the gloomy aftermath first, which makes the colonial setting of the second half a highly ambiguous paradise. The bittersweet logic of the chronology also means that the exuberant second half functions as a gift for its characters and viewers alike. ''In all my films there is an urge for fiction,'' Mr. Gomes said. ''There is a first part that begs for another film to appear, and it does because of our common desire.''
Mr. Gomes peppers his conversation with well-turned aphorisms on the power of film: ''Cinema was made to reunite the visible and the invisible''; ''Cinema can record not only things that exist, but things we project.'' Some have said that cinema is in its death throes. A filmmaker like Mr. Gomes suggests that a deep faith in the medium and its possibilities is all it takes to prevent its extinction.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Miguel Gomes last month at the Torino Film Festival. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALESSANDRO DI MARCO/ EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)
Ana Moreira in a scene set in Africa during the sometimes dialogue- free ''Tabu,'' from the Portuguese director Miguel Gomes.
 Ms. Moreira and Manuel Mesquita in a scene from ''Tabu.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ADOPT FILMS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); MUSIC (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); RESTAURANTS (67%); HOTEL AMENITIES (62%); THEATER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (56%) PORTUGAL (92%); AFRICA (90%); MOZAMBIQUE (79%); UNITED STATES (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



806 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
National

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TEXAS MONTHLY; Pg. 33B

LENGTH: 884 words

HEADLINE: 'Big Rich Texas' Becomes an Unlikely Reality-TV Hit

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER KELLY. 
ckelly@texasmonthly.com

 BODY:
In a cosmetic surgeon's office in the Uptown neighborhood of Dallas, a mother sat in on a consultation with her 16-year-old daughter. Her explanation for their visit?
''She has these railroad tracks on her forehead that I think are unsightly,'' she said and added, ''She needs Botox.'' Far from being traumatized, her daughter appeared to be in complete agreement.
''Is there a law that says she can't do this?'' the mother asked the doctor. 
The doctor said no, then, in an impressive pivot, noted, ''There's laws of nature.''
This is the world of ''Big Rich Texas,'' a reality series on the Style Network that follows seven sets of mothers and daughters in the Dallas area, who are perhaps a bit too predictably obsessed with big hair, plastic surgery and the size of a lady's engagement ring. (The third-season finale was shown last Sunday, but two reunion specials are scheduled for next month.)
Reconfigured out of the detritus of a failed reality series called ''Dallas Divas and Daughters,'' ''Big Rich Texas'' began in summer 2011, around the same time a number of other North Texas-set reality series came into being. Even by the standards of such shows, reviews have been almost entirely withering. (The Dallas-based blogger Ed Bark wrote that ''no one in the nation at large will see anything more than the usual paint-by-numbers portrait of a city that actually stands for a lot more than wretched excess in the name of naked greed.'')
But while other shows like Bravo's ''Most Eligible: Dallas,'' CMT's ''Texas Women'' and Logo's series ''The A List: Dallas'' barely made a ripple in the popular culture, ''Big Rich Texas'' has seen steady ratings increases, and its cast members have emerged as minor celebrities. And the show has had another unlikely triumph: ''Big Rich Dallas'' has spawned a franchise, with ''Big Rich Atlanta'' set to have its premiere in January.
''If Atlanta is a success, we'd love to dive right into another region quickly,'' said Sarah Weidman, the network's senior vice president for original programming and development.
''Big Rich Texas'' took a somewhat circuitous path to television fame. According to Ms. Weidman, network executives were drawn to the idea of setting a reality show in Dallas. The network liked the concept of mother-daughter pairings, but ''Dallas Divas and Daughters,'' which had its premiere in October 2009, never found an audience.
Not ready to give up on the idea, Style executives retained two of the cast members from ''Dallas Divas and Daughters'' -- the sharp-tongued Pamela Martin-Duarte and her daughter, Hannah -- and tweaked the premise: In ''Big Rich Texas,'' the mothers and daughters would all be members of the same exclusive country club. (The club, Woodhaven, is actually in Fort Worth and is not widely considered by North Texans to be among the most exclusive.)
This time the formula worked, and ''Big Rich Texas'' was quickly renewed for a second and then a third season.
The show received an additional boost of ''only in reality-TV world'' publicity last April, when Ms. Martin-Duarte filed a defamation lawsuit against her fellow cast members Bonnie Blossman and Dena Miller -- who dropped out of the show after a few weeks of shooting -- and the blogger Merritt Patterson, who had written critically about the show. (Ms. Martin-Duarte, who quit the show after the second season, has since dropped Ms. Patterson and Ms. Miller from the suit but is still suing Ms. Blossman.)
The Season 3 premiere of ''Big Rich Texas,'' in October, attracted 544,000 total viewers, a 29 percent increase over the Season 2 premiere in February. Those numbers are not too far behind the network's most popular show, ''Giuliana and Bill,'' which has averaged about 650,000 total viewers this season.
Why was this reality show a breakout when so many others that tried to capitalize on America's continuing cultural preoccupation with Dallas failed? Caitlin Adams, who blogs about ''Big Rich Texas'' for D Magazine, said that the show tapped into America's ''everything is bigger and weirder'' fascination with Texas.
But Ms. Adams also said that the women on ''Big Rich Texas'' were somehow relatable to a mainstream, recession-era viewer.
''A few of these ladies are divorced or living in apartments,'' Ms. Adams said, ''trying to live more glamorous lives than they actually have.''
The show has been criticized for wallowing in the worst sort of clichés about Texas women, but Ms. Weidman said that the characters did not perpetuate the myth.
''There is some of that sprinkled in, if they get dolled up for the night,'' she said. ''But we work very hard to find multidimensional women who aren't just one thing. If they seem stereotypical, hopefully in the next episode you'll see another side of them that surprises you.''
Still, at least one of its cast members acknowledges that ''Big Rich Texas'' -- like most reality series -- tends to maximize the negative and leave the positive on the cutting-room floor.
''They don't show me and my daughter working with charities,'' said Ms. Blossman, who appears on the show with Whitney, her 24-year-old daughter.
''That is the bad part of being on a show like this,'' she continued. ''They're not going to choose the positives of what you do and what you are. They're obviously going to highlight the drama.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The ''Big Rich Texas'' cast includesBonnie Blossman, third from left, and her daughter, Whitney. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN RUSSO/STYLE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



807 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: What's On Sunday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
7 P.M. (ABC) THE SOUND OF MUSIC (1965) The Rodgers and Hammerstein classic, starring Julie Andrews, above, and Christopher Plummer. Singing along is practically required.
10 A.M. (Fox) FOX NEWS SUNDAY Senators John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, and Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota, look at the fiscal negotiations, the Benghazi report and the aftermath of the Newtown, Conn., shooting.
10 A.M. (ABC) THIS WEEK Asa Hutchinson, the director of the National School Shield program of the National Rifle Association, and Sarah Brady of the Brady Center to Prevent Gun Violence discuss the Newtown, Conn., shooting and gun control. 
10 A.M. (Showtime) FAIR GAME (2010) Naomi Watts, below, plays Valerie Plame Wilson, the C.I.A. operative whose cover was blown in apparent retaliation for the actions of her husband, the diplomat Joseph Wilson. Sean Penn portrays Mr. Wilson, who, having researched allegations that Saddam Hussein had purchased large quantities of uranium and found nothing, wrote an Op-Ed article in The New York Times rebutting President George W. Bush's statement that Iraq had sought nuclear material in Africa. A result was a campaign by Mr. Wilson to expose the culprits and to defend his and his wife's reputations against an onslaught of innuendo and spin. The film's portrait of the modern marriage ''is graceful and subtle,'' A. O. Scott wrote in The Times about this drama from Doug Liman. ''That the rest of the movie is sometimes less so has to do with circumstances beyond the control of the characters or the filmmakers. American movies demand happy endings, in which wrongs are set right, and truth prevails over falsehood. 'Fair Game,' somewhat like Charles Ferguson's documentary 'Inside Job,' gestures in that direction, concluding on a note of idealism that does not quite seem warranted by the facts of the story.''
10:30 A.M. (CBS) FACE THE NATION David Keene, president of the National Rifle Association, and Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, and Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, discuss the future of gun control.
10:30 A.M. (NBC) MEET THE PRESS Wayne LaPierre, the chief executive of the National Rifle Association, discusses the Newtown, Conn., shooting and gun control. Senators Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, and Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, debate gun control and the latest in the so-called fiscal cliff negotiations.
1 P.M. (CUNY) BOLSHOI AT THE BOLSHOI Natalya Arkhipova and Irek Mukhamedov star in this 1989 Bolshoi Ballet production of ''The Nutcracker,'' choreographed by Yuri Grigorovich.
6 P.M. (13) MOYERS & COMPANY Bill Moyers talks with Tony Kushner, who wrote the screenplay for Steven Spielberg's ''Lincoln,'' about how the film affected his views of democracy.
9 P.M. (MSNBC) CHAINED TO MY EX This new documentary series focuses on couples who, though divorced, can't seem to move on -- or move out. This first episode follows the former spouses CeCe and Christian, who continue to live together. CeCe says she is ready to go but can't bring herself to leave her unemployed ex. Christian hopes that holding on will persuade CeCe to reconsider their relationship. As a step to resolution, the pair meet with Judge Michele Lowrance, the author of ''The Good Karma Divorce'' and a former divorce lawyer, to set boundaries and make plans to get on with their lives.
9 P.M. (13, 49) DOWNTON ABBEY In this encore episode of the ''Masterpiece Classic'' soap opera about masters (Michelle Dockery, left) and servants at the twilight of the British Empire, the Spanish flu strikes Downton.
10 P.M. (HBO2) LOVE & OTHER DRUGS (2010) The year is 1996, and Jamie Randall (Jake Gyllenhaal), the underachieving son of a prominent Chicago doctor, has decided to sell pharmaceuticals. Flash forward to 1998, when Jamie's employer, Pfizer, begins marketing Viagra. Voilà! Jamie is on his way to fortune and a certain fame. But somewhere amid this sexual playground he meets Maggie (Anne Hathaway), a freewheeling, slightly cynical, commitment-shy artist with early-onset Parkinson's disease. Writing in The Times, A. O. Scott called this film from Edward Zwick ''a sometimes intoxicating, sometimes headache-inducing cocktail.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY ARGYLE ENTERPRISES AND 20TH CENTURY FOX) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSICAL THEATER (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MUSIC (89%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (89%); GUN CONTROL (89%); FILM (86%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); DANCE COMPANIES (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); DRAMA LITERATURE (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); MARRIAGE (68%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); VISUAL ARTISTS (65%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (63%); BALLET (60%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); BRADY CENTER TO PREVENT GUN VIOLENCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (57%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (57%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (57%); KENT CONRAD (57%); MARK WARNER (57%); STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%); GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



808 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Symbolism Can Go a Long Way

BYLINE: By TYLER COWEN. 
Tyler Cowen is a Professor of Economics at George Mason University.

 BODY:
''GRANT me chastity and continence, but not yet.'' That line from St. Augustine could describe the undercurrent of the fiscal negotiations in Washington. We must decide whether to pursue a relatively loose and stimulative policy, and to trust in our later discipline, or to slam on the brakes now.
Yet there may be a way to square this circle. When it comes to income tax rates, we could raise them for virtually everyone, to send a clear message that the current fiscal situation is unsustainable. At the same time, we could limit those tax increases for most income classes to a relatively small percentage, much less than the full expiration of the Bush tax cuts would imply. 
The sorry truth is that we Americans seem like the addict who keeps saying ''I can quit any time,'' yet doesn't cut back. So what else might we say to frame this problem in a more useful way?
To see how this could work, consider this script: Let's say the Republicans decide to largely give in to what the President Obama is proposing. There is, however, a catch: the president has to agree to raise marginal tax rates on all income classes, not just on the rich. The tax increase would be one-quarter of a percentage point, or some other arbitrary small amount, with larger increases possible for higher incomes, as has been discussed. The deal also stipulates that both the president and Congress must publicly acknowledge that current plans for government spending can't be financed unless taxes on most or all income groups climb further yet, and by some hefty amount.
Given the slow economy, it is undesirable to reverse all or even most of the Bush tax cuts. A small but publicly trumpeted clawback of some of the cuts would send the right message to voters, while minimizing the macroeconomic fallout. The nice thing about symbols -- single shots across the bow -- is that they often can suffice.
If people already rationally expect these tax increases, this signal would do neither good nor harm, but perhaps such an approach would nudge political expectations closer to reality without draining the economy.
With such a deal, President Obama would get much of what he wants, which many Republicans find objectionable. Still, the Republicans are in any case unlikely to win this round of budget negotiations. The positioning suggested here would highlight the major weakness and, indeed, an evasion in the Obama administration's fiscal stance -- namely, the president's campaign pledge to protect the middle class from income tax increases. It is commonly agreed that raising taxes on the wealthy alone will close only a small part of our fiscal gap over the next 10 years; an estimate of 15 percent is optimistic.
It could also be agreed that taxes could come back down in the future, but only if politicians found matching spending cuts.
Think of this stance as a first step toward the explicit pairing of spending and taxes, toward a goal of more responsible fiscal decisions. Although taxes would go up for now, this could lead to a smaller, more effective government than our current mismatch of taxes and spending would produce.
Economic conservatives often stress the connection between low taxes and smaller government. But that observation, as an argument for lower current taxes, looks weaker as the years pass. Keeping taxes low doesn't stop the growth of government spending and, indeed, makes spending taste like a free lunch, because the bill is paid much later. The conservative strategy has long been to hold the line on taxes now, but it would be better to encourage the public to more readily grasp and internalize the costs of government spending.
There is something to be said for ''pricing'' big government by making an explicit connection to taxes, much the way utilities explicitly price water and electricity. And higher tax revenue now will decrease the extent to which interest on the debt consumes future budgets -- and that probably means lower taxes in the future. Counterintuitively, raising tax rates sooner rather than later may be the true ''low-tax policy'' because it may increase the chance of limiting future taxes.
In the minds of many moderate and independent voters, the Republicans are currently identified with dysfunctional politics. But this proposal would let them take a credible stand against obstructionism. If the president didn't like such a deal, he would be the naysayer, and the resulting publicity would shine a bright spotlight on the tax-and-spend mismatch. Suddenly, it would be the Republicans emphasizing the classic American line that ''we are all in this together.''
OF course, the notion of tolerating -- and especially endorsing -- any tax increase is anathema to many of President Obama's opponents. But keep in mind that possible alternatives, like another debt-ceiling debacle or an agreement that panders to our fiscal illusions, would probably be worse for both the economy and the longer-term reputation of the Republican Party.
In our country, the typical approach to fiscal deadlines is to kick the can down the road. But that assumes we are kicking a can, not a grenade. It's time for at least one party -- and why not the electoral loser? -- to do something just a little shocking. It can give in on much of the negotiations, but insist that both sides start stressing the fiscal truth.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX INCREASES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (76%); INCOME TAX (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



809 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1345 words

HEADLINE: Interpretive Freedom

BYLINE: By ROBERT P. GEORGE. 
Robert P. George is a visiting professor at Harvard Law School and the McCormick professor of jurisprudence at Princeton University.

 BODY:
AMERICA'S UNWRITTEN CONSTITUTIONThe Precedents and Principles We Live By
By Akhil Reed Amar615 pp. Basic Books. $29.99.
In ''America's Unwritten Constitution,'' Akhil Reed Amar, a commendably unorthodox and, in some ways, iconoclastic constitutional scholar at Yale Law School, bucks dominant opinions on both sides of the political spectrum. He contends that the written Constitution points to an unwritten one, and he argues that we can interpret with both intellectual honesty and analytical rigor. Aware that the idea of an unwritten constitution has been abused by judges and scholars on both the left and right, Amar insists that the idea itself is sound -- indeed indispensable to the cause of constitutional fidelity -- and needs rescuing from its abusers.
Liberal jurists and legal scholars are accused, often justly, of failing to take the text of the Constitution seriously, or to seek the meaning of its written provisions by understanding them in their historical context. They treat concepts like ''due process of law'' and ''the equal protection of the laws'' as, in the words of the liberal justice William J. Brennan Jr., ''majestic generalities'' that can be assigned whatever meanings would best serve the cause of justice as they happen to perceive it. 
Historically, it has not been only liberals who have stood under indictment for this offense. At the height of the Industrial Revolution, a conservative-dominated Supreme Court struck down a state law restricting work hours, citing an implicit right to freedom of contract between employers and workers. Critics of laissez-faire ideas about economic justice accused the court's members of manufacturing this right to serve their ideological purposes.
Then in 1965, with the sexual revolution getting into full swing, a Supreme Court dominated by liberals discovered an unwritten ''right of privacy'' to obtain and use contraceptives, claiming to have found the right lurking in ''penumbras, formed by emanations'' (yes, you read that correctly) from various constitutional guarantees, none of which had anything to do with marriage, sex or birth control. Amar, though sympathizing with the result in the case, rejects the majority's reasoning as ''sloppy'' and ''breezy.''
Critics of expansive judicial power, whether conservative or liberal, have always worried about the political and institutional effects of such ideologically motivated adventures. Thomas Jefferson warned that accepting constitutional judicial review -- a power claimed by the judiciary but nowhere conferred upon it in the constitutional text -- would place the nation ''under the despotism of an oligarchy.'' Lincoln, confronting the Supreme Court's pro-slavery decision in the Dred Scott case, forcefully denied that he was obligated to treat the rulings of ''that eminent tribunal'' as binding on the executive branch beyond application to the parties in a particular case.
The architects of modern conservative jurisprudence have sought to address the problem of judicial activism by developing ''originalist'' methods of constitutional interpretation. What does ''the freedom of speech,'' for instance, mean? Originalists would say it means what it meant to those who ratified the First Amendment. In their view, the challenge for the constitutional interpreter today is faithfully to apply constitutional principles as originally understood to contemporary questions, many of which could not have been foreseen.
Amar is a respectful critic of conservative originalism. He takes the written text seriously as limiting judicial freedom of maneuver, but argues that the Constitution is more than the text, even when supplemented by its original understanding. Like the distinguished conservative constitutional scholar Hadley Arkes, he contends that the written Constitution points beyond itself to principles that it presupposes or entails.
This is far from a wholesale rejection of originalism. For example, Amar, a careful student of history, compellingly argues that the First Amendment's prohibition of laws ''respecting an establishment of religion'' was framed to leave the question to states, and to prevent the national government from establishing its own religion or interfering with state establishments. Thus, many issues now treated under the so-called establishment clause cannot properly be resolved there, but only (if at all) under other provisions, like the free exercise or equal protection clauses.
Amar's critics accuse him of fashioning unwritten constitutions to rationalize judges' imposition of liberal outcomes. But the criticism is unfair. He is not the contemporary incarnation of William O. Douglas or William J. Brennan Jr. Often, he believes that properly interpreting the constitution -- written and unwritten -- yields results at variance with policies he would support as a legislator or voter. That's a sign of integrity in constitutional interpretation.
Amar's fellow liberals will not be pleased, for instance, with his views on the Second Amendment and gun-control legislation. Nor will they cheer his implicit concession that the Supreme Court's 2003 case invalidating anti-sodomy laws does not require redefining marriage to accommodate same-sex relationships. They'll be happier with his treatment of abortion, but it is one of his weaker attempts to find an unwritten principle.
Amar concedes that Justice Harry Blackmun's argument in Roe v. Wade was a failure. But he thinks the lack of woman suffrage when the statute in Roe was passed could have been used to justify striking it down on 19th Amendment (suffrage) grounds. And he suggests that sex equality under the 14th Amendment might justify striking down modern laws against abortion. But this won't fly.
If elective abortion involves deliberately killing a human being -- and if human beings as such are persons -- as opponents argue, then abortion restrictions do not violate the equal protection principle, but rather uphold it. Nothing in the Constitution answers the key threshold question of the status of the prenatal human. Arguably, the 14th Amendment authorizes Congress to address that issue pursuant to its power to enforce due process and equal protection guarantees. But for judges to rule that legal abortion is constitutionally mandated, as they did in Roe, requires importing extraconstitutional premises that are reasonably contested by many citizens. When judges, whether on the left or right, do that, they are usurping authority left by the Constitution to the people and their elected representatives.
None of this undermines Amar's basic claim: The Constitution points beyond its textually explicit provisions. The tough question is how to determine systematically and rigorously what falls within the ''unwritten constitution.'' What is the text, understood in context, pointing to? Amar proposes several criteria for deciding, which become more controversial as the book goes on.
Almost everyone agrees that the Constitution includes whatever its text logically requires or more or less clearly implies. More provocative but also persuasive is Amar's contention that it includes principles inferred from how the written Constitution was enacted. But can constitutional principles, even broadly construed, include some derived from George Washington's presidency, or Martin Luther King's ''I Have a Dream'' speech, as Amar suggests?
Amar allows that parts of his unwritten constitution are ''not on the same legal level'' as the written one. But that raises the question: What in general does it mean to say that some principle is part of the unwritten constitution? Does it constrain government actors as stringently as principles of the written Constitution do, or less so? A more unified, detailed account of the unwritten constitution's function might bolster Amar's bolder claims -- or qualify them. It would help us to see more clearly the boundaries of the constitutional landscape that Amar helpfully sketches, a landscape neither fully lighted by the text nor darkened by ''penumbras, formed by emanations.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH OF AKHIL REED AMAR BY HAROLD SHAPIRO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); EQUAL PROTECTION (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); SUPREME COURTS (89%); DUE PROCESS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); INDICTMENTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (75%); LAWYERS (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); CONTRACTS LAW (72%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (69%); HISTORY (67%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (67%); SLAVERY (64%); CONTRACEPTION (62%); JUDICIAL REVIEW (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



810 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; REPLY ALL | LETTERS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: The 12.9.12 Issue

 BODY:
HOLLYWOOD'S YEAR OF HEROINE WORSHIP
If only the powers-that-be in Hollywood and elsewhere would take to heart the main thrust of A. O. Scott's article: that women can play many roles, coming to the forefront as protagonists, whether as a superhero or a kid or a mother or a regular person who finds herself thrust into a high-stakes situation. Any of these roles can be interesting, valuable, artistically desirable and box-office viable. While I'm glad Ellen Ripley, Sarah Connor, Lisbeth Salander and others in their mold exist, inclusiveness of the full range of the female human experience is what should be striven for in film, right alongside our male counterparts. TONYA JARRETT, San Diego, posted on nytimes.com
To truly understand why the big screen is so lacking in women, you need only to follow the money. Hollywood is just another version of virtually every boardroom in corporate America. Movies made by men are greenlighted to provide entertainment for men (you hear endlessly that movie-audience demographics skew toward young men). Occasionally they will finance a project with a female protagonist who is even better at being a man than a man. CAROL MCCANN, New York, posted on nytimes.com 
What about movies for children? I have three young daughters. Aside from the pink ghetto, kids' media -- whether PBS or Disney -- put male characters front and center. Female characters are sidelined or not there at all -- just look at the posters for children's movies (with the exception of ''Brave''). There is no reason for the imaginary world to be sexist. MARGOT MAGOWAN, San Francisco, posted on nytimes.com
To me, ''Beasts of the Southern Wild'' -- which stars one of your ''heroines,'' Quvenzhané Wallis -- does not celebrate a heroine. Hushpuppy is spunky and determined, to be sure, but also ignorant and powerless. She resorts to setting a destructive fire to get her way. She clings to a prostitute for affection. She's cute, but all she has going for her might be extinguished before reaching adulthood. The little schooling she receives will not equip her for the real world. The film plays into the myth of the noble savage, of the capacity for joy even among the destitute, but that joy seems to be fueled in the adults around Hushpuppy by alcohol and other ways of numbing the pain of existence. If Hushpuppy is any sort of heroine, she's a tragic one. ELIZABETH FULLER, Peterborough, N.H., posted on nytimes.com
NYT did an actual mermaid Rebel Wilson photo shoot! What have I done to deserve such greatness? @goddesspharo, via Twitter
FILM CULTURE ISN'T DEAD AFTER ALL
Every time you're ready to declare a new movie a ''masterwork,'' go back and take another look at ''Sunrise'' or ''The Rules of the Game'' and ask yourself whether that appellation is in fact justified. The thing about great movies (or great paintings or great novels) is that they're so few and far between that their accidental discovery makes the whole process of moviegoing eminently worthwhile. And I use the word ''accidental'' advisedly: not even all of Murnau's work was great, nor all of Renoir's. And certainly not all of Spielberg's. STU FREEMAN, Brooklyn, posted on nytimes.com
Most people these days are not interested in much beyond their little hand-held blue screens. Going to a movie has become unenjoyable -- I am distracted everywhere by those little rectangular fireflies. I have started to retreat to my private world in which I can enjoy film as I remember it from my youth: dark, quiet and solitary. I can marvel at the last scene in ''Throne of Blood'' knowing that those arrows were not propelled by any C.G.I. team or that Burt Lancaster did all of his own stunts in ''The Train.'' Harrison Ford still has what it takes to be an action star as Indiana Jones. Who needs therapy when I have ''A Day at the Races'' or ''The Music Box''? DONALD WAITS, New Orleans, posted on nytimes.com
THE 'MAD MEN' ECONOMIC MIRACLE
Cable is already obsolete. Rather than paying exorbitant fees for a service that many don't fully utilize, it makes more sense to view the programs à la carte over the Internet. Young people know this, even if not all of us oldsters do. The real danger is that the Internet monopolies, which are the same as the cable monopolies, will try to recapture their profits and maintain their monopolies through bandwidth caps. They have already positioned themselves to do this by imposing caps so high that few customers are affected; now all they need to do is tighten the limits. It is urgently important that the government treat these companies as regulated monopolies and ban them from placing limits on bandwidth. Content providers should offer good shows for a reasonable fee -- and people will pay for these. But if the monopolists keep the price too high, the black market in pirated shows will thrive. JOSHUA P. HILL, New London, Conn., posted on nytimes.com
I used to be one of those 20-somethings who scoured the Internet for free torrents. But the pain of downloading viruses, dummy files and the annoying pop-ups has made me gladly go to Amazon and pay $1.99 an episode. I wish Showtime and other networks would give you an option to pay or subscribe directly to episodes through their Web sites. I imagine the bandwidth/server costs will be expensive at first, but folks like me are game. I don't want to commit to paying for cable. But for instant self-selected gratification, I'm willing to pay by the episode and season directly to the networks. SHARENCARE, Boston, posted on nytimes.com
UNDOCUMENTED DINER
Chuck Klosterman claims that knowingly patronizing a business that employs illegal immigrants is not unethical. Although Klosterman admits illegal immigrants may take jobs from American workers, he asks, ''Who is to say citizenship is a moral justification for employment?'' He seems not to realize that businesses exploiting illegal immigrants can outcompete law-abiding businesses. The weight of all that should be sufficient to make knowingly patronizing such businesses unethical. DAVID C. HOLZMAN, Lexington, Mass.
If you examined the ethics (and morals) of every business you patronized, I think you'd find almost all of them do something or believe in something that you object to. Why does Chick-fil-A's stance on gay marriage matter in terms of whether we should eat their chicken? I'm not sure, but to some it most certainly does matter. BOBBY CALISE, New York, posted on nytimes.com
DINESH D'SOUZA
At the end of Andrew Goldman's interview, Dinesh D'Souza says, ''Imprudent is not the same thing as wrong.'' Oh, that may be so true! But in this case, it's surely the same thing as knuckleheaded. NANCY DONNELLY, Washington, D.C.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIERNEY GEARON) GRAPHIC: 'NYT did an actual mermaid Rebel Wilson photo shoot! What have I done to deserve such greatness?' @goddesspharo, via Twitter, about our Hollywood portfolio (MM7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FILM GENRES (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (76%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (75%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



811 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: The 'Mad Men' Economic Miracle

 BODY:
Cable is already obsolete. Rather than paying exorbitant fees for a service that many don't fully utilize, it makes more sense to view the programs à la carte over the Internet. Young people know this, even if not all of us oldsters do. The real danger is that the Internet monopolies, which are the same as the cable monopolies, will try to recapture their profits and maintain their monopolies through bandwidth caps. They have already positioned themselves to do this by imposing caps so high that few customers are affected; now all they need to do is tighten the limits. It is urgently important that the government treat these companies as regulated monopolies and ban them from placing limits on bandwidth. Content providers should offer good shows for a reasonable fee -- and people will pay for these. But if the monopolists keep the price too high, the black market in pirated shows will thrive. 
JOSHUA P. HILL,New London, Conn., posted on nytimes.com
I used to be one of those 20-somethings who scoured the Internet for free torrents. But the pain of downloading viruses, dummy files and the annoying pop-ups has made me gladly go
to Amazon and pay $1.99 an episode. I wish Showtime and other networks would give you an option to pay or subscribe directly to episodes through their Web sites. I imagine the bandwidth/server costs will be expensive at first, but folks like me are game. I don't want to commit to paying for cable. But for instant self-selected gratification, I'm willing to pay by the episode and season directly to the networks.
SHARENCARE,Boston, posted on nytimes.com

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (79%); MONOPOLIZATION (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); NETWORK SERVERS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (68%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



812 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 5920 words

HEADLINE: Jerry Seinfeld Intends to Die Standing Up

BYLINE: By JONAH WEINER

 BODY:
Jerry Seinfeld began his commute after dinner, in no particular hurry. Around quarter to 8 on a drizzly Tuesday, he left his Manhattan home -- a palatial duplex apartment with picture windows and a broad terrace overlooking Central Park -- and made for a nearby garage. Due to tell jokes at a comedy club downtown, he decided to drive what he calls his ''city car'': a 1998 Porsche 911 Carrera 4S. Stepping into the garage, he tugged a thick fabric cover from the car. The interior was a pristine matte black, and the paint job was a startlingly luminous azure. ''It's called Mexico blue -- a very traditional Porsche color,'' Seinfeld said. ''In the '70s it looked normal, but now it looks insane.'' 
His hair, flecked with gray, was buzzed almost to the scalp, and he was dressed in light-blue Levi's, a navy knit polo and a dark wool blazer. Seinfeld, who once said he wore sneakers long into adulthood ''because it reminds me I don't have a job,'' has lately grown partial to Nike Shox, which he likes for their extravagant cushioning, but tonight he opted for tan suede desert boots. When he's in the workplace -- on a stage, microphone in hand, trying to make a crowd erupt -- the feel of a harder sole helps him get into the right mind-set.
''I just tried a little Twitter experiment,'' Seinfeld said. His appearance, at Gotham Comedy Club, had so far been kept secret, but just before leaving home, he'd announced the gig online on a whim. ''They've only got a half-hour to get there, so I'm not expecting a flash mob,'' he said. Gotham was an opportunity for Seinfeld to audition brand-new material and fine-tune older bits in a relatively low-stakes context. In two days, he would perform for nearly 3,000 people at Manhattan's Beacon Theater, and that show loomed large. It would be Seinfeld's first performance in New York City since 1998, not counting impromptu club appearances and the odd private event, and it would kick off a citywide tour, with performances in each of the other boroughs. Born in Brooklyn, educated in Queens and famous for a fictional Manhattan apartment, Seinfeld called the tour ''a valentine,'' but he was, on one level, ambivalent about it. '' 'The Hometown Hero Returns' is not my narrative of being a stand-up,'' he said. ''For me, it's the hotel. It's 'I Don't Belong Here.' It's 'The Stranger Rides Into Town.' That's the proper form of this craft.''
Seinfeld wondered if hordes would see his tweet and hustle over to Gotham, but sparse attendance would be fine, too. Several weeks earlier he materialized, unannounced, at the Creek and the Cave, a club in Long Island City, and performed for ''14 people.'' Most comedians dislike telling jokes to empty seats, but at this point Seinfeld enjoys a room that offers some resistance. ''I miss opening for Frankie Valli and Ben Vereen, walking out as an unknown and there's no applause: let's get it on,'' he said. ''I once opened for Vic Damone at a nooner on a basketball court in Brooklyn. They're going, Who is this kid? Oh, god! They're sure you're not worth the trouble. But I'd win over some of those rooms.'' After you've helped create and starred in one of television's best-rated, best-loved sitcoms -- a show that, thanks to rampant syndication, is still bursting Kramer-style into people's living rooms 14 years after its finale -- tough crowds are tougher to come by. ''I would love it if there were only two people there tonight,'' he said.
To get the Porsche out of the garage, Seinfeld had to execute something like a 12-point turn, somehow managing, as he nudged the car back and forth, not to leave chips of Mexico blue all over an unnervingly close concrete column. Seinfeld is 58, and his face is rounder and more deeply lined than it once was, but it has retained the bright-eyed boyishness of his sitcom days. He smiles readily, either at something someone else has said or -- since he is frequently the funniest person within earshot -- at something he came up with. His default display of amusement is to squint hard and scrunch up his nose till his front teeth protrude from a rictus grin: a groundhog tickled by the sight of his own shadow.
Tonight he was feeling out of sorts. ''My head's spinning a little bit from the travel,'' he said. He had returned only yesterday from France, where he spent a three-day vacation sightseeing with his family, attending a birthday party and examining a vintage Meyers Manx dune buggy he was thinking about buying. Ever since he began working comedy clubs, in 1975, Seinfeld has considered himself a stand-up above all else, and the other roles he has taken on -- sitcom icon, husband, father of three -- can come into conflict with the calling. ''We did a lot of moving, and we had a lot of fun,'' he explained, ''but I get thrown off easily. If I have one weekend off from stand-up, and I do something weird, I completely forget who I am and what I do for a living.''
Because Seinfeld's big post-''Seinfeld'' projects have been few and far between -- the stand-up documentary ''Comedian'' (2002), the animated children's film ''Bee Movie'' (2007), the reality-show misfire ''The Marriage Ref'' (2010), which he produced and appeared on as a judge -- you might assume that he whiled away the last decade on a private island somewhere, racing Spyders and fanning himself with royalty checks. Instead, since 2000, Seinfeld has spent a portion of nearly every week doing stand-up. He is on track to do 89 shows this year, plus private appearances, which shakes out to about two performances a week. He's living the life of a road comic, albeit one who sells out 20,000-seat London arenas and schleps to gigs via chartered planes rather than rented subcompacts.
Earlier this year, Seinfeld started a 10-episode online series, ''Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee,'' in which he wheels around in gorgeous old Triumphs and Karmann Ghias and cracks wise over mugs of coffee with friends like Larry David, Alec Baldwin and Carl Reiner. The show's intended audience, Seinfeld says, is ''this bubble world of people who love funny and want to get into it a little closer.'' But while he acknowledges the Internet's usefulness in keeping comedy relevant -- podcasts, video channels and Web sites devoted to comedy are booming -- he sees stand-up as, at bottom, an antidote to technological alienation. ''We're craving the nondigital even more these days, the authentically human interaction,'' he says. ''We need to see some schmuck sweat.''
For Seinfeld, whose worth Forbes estimated in 2010 to be $800 million, his touring regimen is a function not of financial necessity but rather of borderline monomania -- a creative itch he can't scratch. ''I like money,'' he says, ''but it's never been about the money.'' Seinfeld will nurse a single joke for years, amending, abridging and reworking it incrementally, to get the thing just so. ''It's similar to calligraphy or samurai,'' he says. ''I want to make cricket cages. You know those Japanese cricket cages? Tiny, with the doors? That's it for me: solitude and precision, refining a tiny thing for the sake of it.''
When he can't tinker, he grows anxious. ''If I don't do a set in two weeks, I feel it,'' he said. ''I read an article a few years ago that said when you practice a sport a lot, you literally become a broadband: the nerve pathway in your brain contains a lot more information. As soon as you stop practicing, the pathway begins shrinking back down. Reading that changed my life. I used to wonder, Why am I doing these sets, getting on a stage? Don't I know how to do this already? The answer is no. You must keep doing it. The broadband starts to narrow the moment you stop.''
Gotham Comedy Club was a 15-minute drive downtown. Passing the Museum of Natural History, Seinfeld tuned the car radio to WFAN, where a baseball game was under way. ''Do you know this player Adam Greenberg?'' he asked. ''Seven years ago, he was a rookie, and in his very first at-bat he got hit in the head with the ball -- knocked out, concussed, out of the league.'' Seinfeld raised an index finger from the wheel: ''One pitch.'' The Marlins had agreed to sign Greenberg for a single day after fans petitioned on his behalf. ''It might seem a bit Jewy if I get too excited about it -- I wish he wasn't Jewish,'' Seinfeld said. ''But it's a fascinating story. One at-bat after seven years. Think of the pressure on this guy!''
Seinfeld likes pressure. He describes doing live comedy as ''standing against a wall blindfolded, with a cigarette in your mouth, and they're about to fire.'' His objective at Gotham was piecework. ''A lot of what I'll be doing tonight are tiny things in my bits where I'm looking for a little fix, where something isn't quite smooth,'' he said. ''A lot of stuff I do out of pure obsessiveness.'' One bit began with the observation that ''tuxedos are the universal symbol for pulling a fast one.'' ''That line works,'' he said. ''But I want to get from there to a point about how the places where you see tuxedos are not honest places -- casinos, award shows, beauty pageants, the maitre d' -- all these things feel shady.'' He added: ''But I've been having trouble getting the audience to that. I'm trying to bring that to a punchline.''
Seinfeld likens his fine-bore interest in jokes to his longstanding infatuation with Porsches, of which he owns ''a few dozen.'' ''People ask me, Why Porsches? A lot of it is the size, same as with bits. The smaller something is, the harder it is to make, because there's less room for error.'' In high school he took shop classes, even after a counselor told him that collegebound kids didn't need to, because he wanted to know how machines fit together. ''I have this old '57 Porsche Speedster, and the way the door closes, I'll just sit there and listen to the sound of the latch going, cluh-CLICK-click,'' Seinfeld said. ''That door! I live for that door. Whatever the opposite of planned obsolescence is, that's what I'm into.'' Mark Schiff, a veteran club comic and one of Seinfeld's oldest friends, told me: ''He's a scientist. When you watch him, he's in the lab, concocting. I feel that way, too, to a degree, but with him every little nuance is so valuable.'' Sarah Silverman, who has shared bills with Seinfeld and long admired him, agrees: ''Whereas most comedians are lazy bastards, he's the ultimate craftsman.''
In front of Gotham, six orange traffic cones marked ''Con Edison'' were arranged in the street. Spotting us, a bouncer built like a bank safe emerged to remove them: when Seinfeld appears here, he calls the owner, who reserves a space. Seinfeld got out, eliciting happy stares and excited murmurs from passers-by. His posture was excellent; his gait leisurely. In Gotham's packed main room, the comic Jim Gaffigan was onstage. Seinfeld remained in the hallway, studying a sheet of yellow paper scribbled with lines he wanted to improve. In the car, he'd warned me, ''When I get to the club I'm not going to want to chat until after; I'm in my own world.'' He made some small talk with the bouncer and the owner about baseball, but he was plainly preoccupied. The bouncer said, apropos of Greenberg's head injury, ''My daughter got a concussion, and she still gets headaches.'' Seinfeld was staring at his notes. ''Huh,'' he replied, no longer listening.
After a few minutes, Gotham's host asked the 300-strong crowd to welcome ''a special guest -- Jerry Seinfeld!'' and if they'd been tipped off on Twitter, it didn't diminish their enthusiasm. ''Yes! Yes!'' a burly guy shrieked, grasping frantically for his phone to take a picture. Seinfeld's set lasted 20 minutes and he seemed at ease. The tuxedo bit got medium-size laughs; one of the biggest explosions came when Seinfeld, mulling the topic of goofy outfits that dads wear on weekends, concluded, ''All fathers essentially dress in the clothing style of the last good year of their lives'' -- a joke about aging-male despair couched in a joke about fashion. When Seinfeld recited it, a man in khakis did an actual spit take into his beer bottle. At one point, Seinfeld lost his thread and sighed as he checked his notes; even the sigh got a laugh. He closed to a standing ovation.
Seinfeld retired to a dressing room, plopping down beside a bucket of bottled water. I congratulated him on the performance. ''I'd say two-thirds of that set was garbage,'' he said, matter-of-factly. ''Whether it was lines coming out wrong or the rhythm being off.'' He said he'd counted ''probably eight'' jokes that failed to get the kinds of laughs he desired. ''There's different kinds of laughs,'' he explained. ''It's like a baseball lineup: this guy's your power hitter, this guy gets on base, this guy works out walks. If everybody does their job, we're gonna win.'' I told him about the khaki guy's spit take, and Seinfeld cracked up, calling this ''a rare butterfly.'' Nevertheless, ''there wasn't one moment where I was where I wanted to be. That was just a workout. I had to get it going again.''
Over nine seasons, ''Seinfeld'' enjoyed an omnipresent, epochal success: you can draw a line from ''Seinfeld'' to Larry David's ''Curb Your Enthusiasm'' to Ricky Gervais's ''Office,'' ''Arrested Development,'' ''It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia,'' the American ''Office'' and out from there to maybe half the sitcoms currently on the air. In stand-up circles, Seinfeld is a towering figure, revered for the sharpness of his eye as he scrutinizes subjects large (marriage, death) and small (answering-machine protocol, 5-Hour Energy drink). In 2001, George Carlin spoke admiringly of ''the little world, the kind of world Jerry Seinfeld investigated to a great, high level.'' When ''Seinfeld'' went off the air and Seinfeld began rededicating himself to stand-up, he told Time that he didn't consider himself great. When I asked him how he evaluates his talent today, Seinfeld demurred before allowing, ''I think it's there now.'' He says he plans to do stand-up ''into my 80s, and beyond.''
One afternoon not long after the Gotham gig, Seinfeld invited me to his Upper West Side work space, where he spends most days, writing jokes. Clean, modern and cozy, it resembled some hip therapist's office: a high-ceilinged, poured-concrete box with a long plushy couch, a little balcony and a kitchenette. Framed pictures covered a wall: a production still from the George Reeves ''Superman'' serial; an original cartoon of Seinfeld and Alfred E. Neuman that ran on the cover of Mad Magazine in 1997; a photo of Steve McQueen with a Porsche 917 that the actor owned in the '70s and that today belongs to Seinfeld. A sleek Pinarello racing bicycle, which Seinfeld rides around town, stood against a wall. ''It's very addictive, that feeling of gliding through the city,'' he said. Some Emmys huddled in a corner beside a ventriloquist's dummy, which Seinfeld cherishes more than the awards: ''I did a comedy show with that in third grade.''
Seinfeld sat in an armchair in a sweater and jeans, resting gray Shox on a footstool. On a typical weekday, after getting the kids (his daughter Sascha, 12, son Julian, 9, son Shepherd, 7) to school and exercising in his building's gym, Seinfeld walks here, grabs a legal pad and a Bic pen and sits at his desk. No street noise penetrates. The pages of the pad are destined for either a wastebasket or a master file containing Seinfeld's entire act, handwritten. The other day, perusing this file, he found a joke in which, discussing touch-screen phones, he likens the act of scrolling through a contact list and deleting names to the effete, disdainful gesture of a ''gay French king'' deciding whom to behead. Seinfeld wrote the joke a year ago and forgot it; having rediscovered it, he'd be telling it onstage that weekend.
Seinfeld's shows last a little over an hour, but he has about two hours of material in active rotation, so he's able to swap in different bits on different nights. There is a contemporary vogue for turning over an entire act rapidly: tossing out jokes wholesale, starting again from zero to avoid creative stasis. Louis C.K. has made this practice nearly synonymous with black-belt stand-up. Seinfeld wants no part of it. ''This 'new hour' nonsense -- I can't do it,'' he said. ''I wanna see your best work. I'm not interested in your new work.'' C.K., who used to open for Seinfeld, has called him ''a virtuoso -- he plays it like a violin,'' and the two are friendly. I asked Seinfeld if he thought C.K.'s stand-up hours, widely praised, would improve if he spent more than a year honing each one. ''It's not really fair for me to judge the way somebody else approaches it,'' Seinfeld replied. ''I care about a certain level of detail, but it's personal. He would get bored of it. It's not his way. It's a different sensibility.'' There was another big difference between the two, Seinfeld noted: ''Working clean.'' Almost from the beginning, Seinfeld has forsworn graphic language in his bits, dismissing it as a crutch. ''Guys that can use any word they want -- if I had that weapon, I'll give you a new hour in a week,'' he said.
Developing jokes as glacially as he does, Seinfeld says, allows for breakthroughs he wouldn't reach otherwise. He gave me an example. ''I had a joke: 'Marriage is a bit of a chess game, except the board is made of flowing water and the pieces are made of smoke,' '' he said. ''This is a good joke, I love it, I've spent years on it. There's a little hitch: 'The board is made of flowing water.' I'd always lose the audience there. Flowing water? What does he mean? And repeating 'made of' was hurting things. So how can I say 'the board is made of flowing water' without saying 'made of'? A very small problem, but I could hear the confusion. A laugh to me is not a laugh. I see it, like at Caltech when they look at the tectonic plates. If I'm in the dark up there and I can just listen, I know exactly what's going on. I know exactly when their attention has moved off me a little.
''So,'' he continued, ''I was obsessed with figuring that out. The way I figure it out is I try different things, night after night, and I'll stumble into it at some point, or not. If I love the joke, I'll wait. If it takes me three years, I'll wait.'' Finally, in late August, during a performance, the cricket cage snapped into place. ''The breakthrough was doing this''-- Seinfeld traced a square in the air with his fingers, drawing the board. ''Now I can just say, 'The board is flowing water,' and do this, and they get it. A board that was made of flowing water was too much data. Here, I'm doing some of the work for you. So now I'm starting to get applause on it, after years of work. They don't think about it. They just laugh.''
Seinfeld believes funniness is genetic. When his father, Kalman, was stationed in the Pacific during World War II, he'd transcribe jokes he heard and store them in a box for safekeeping. ''In the army, that's kind of how you got through it,'' Seinfeld says. ''People would tell jokes by the score, because what else are you going to do to maintain sanity? The recognizing of jokes as precious material: that's where it starts. If you've got the gene, a joke is an amazing thing. It's something you save in a box in a war.''
Born in 1954 and raised on Long Island, in Massapequa, Seinfeld dreamed of growing up to be an advertising man, and he still appreciates commercials for their narrative economy. The Seinfelds were ''pretty Jewish,'' Seinfeld recalls: ''Went to temple, kept kosher, two sets of dishes.'' The younger of two siblings (his sister helps handle his business), he earned his first spit take, as a little kid, while snacking with a pal; Seinfeld told a joke, and the friend burst out laughing, spraying Seinfeld's face with sodden crumbs. His love of comedy matured when he heard Jean Shepherd's epic, askew radio monologues, and when he bought Bill Cosby's 1965 album, ''Why Is There Air?'' Seinfeld adored Shepherd's knack for ''taking something small and making it big,'' and he marveled at Cosby's ''vocal instrument: he can do this person, the sound of chewing gum, the corduroys rubbing together, the other kids -- he was all over the keyboard.'' But the comedian who made Seinfeld think he could actually become one was Robert Klein. ''He was a New York, middle-class kid,'' Seinfeld says, ''and through that I could see a path for myself.''
Seinfeld's work habits were stringent from the start. Studying communications and theater at Queens College, he arranged an independent study in stand-up, trying club sets, analyzing others' sets and writing a 40-page paper. When he scored his first appearance on Johnny Carson's ''Tonight Show,'' in 1981, he practiced his five-minute set ''200 times'' beforehand, jogging around Manhattan and listening to the ''Superman'' theme on a Walkman to amp up.
We're accustomed to the cliché of the stand-up as sad clown: a racked soul on a dim stage, salving psychic wounds, craving approval. When audiences yell, ''I love you,'' at Seinfeld, he likes to reply, ''I love you, too, and this is my favorite type of intimate relationship.'' He told me: ''That's the wiring of a stand-up. This is my best way of functioning.'' But he sees himself more as exacting athlete than tortured artist. He compares himself to baseball players -- putting spin on the ball as it leaves his fingers, trying to keep his batting average high -- and to surfers: ''What are they doing that for? It's just pure. You're alone. That wave is so much bigger and stronger than you. You're always outnumbered. They always can crush you. And yet you're going to accept that and turn it into a little, brief, meaningless art form.'' He said: ''I'm not filling a deep emotional hole here. I'm playing a very difficult game, and if you'd like to see someone who's very good at a difficult game, that's what I do.''
For audiences, Seinfeld's approach has its escapist comforts. In his jokes he often arranges life's messy confusions, shrewdly and immaculately, into a bouquet of trivial irritants. Seinfeld's comedic persona is unflappable -- annoyed plenty, but unmarked by extremes of emotion, much less tragedy. ''He's the least neurotic Jew on earth,'' Sarah Silverman says. In a joke Seinfeld told for decades, he called an overflowing toilet ''the most frightening moment in the life of a human being,'' and there's a sense in which his clean, precise bits are marvels of plumbing, keeping abjection at bay. On ''The Arsenio Hall Show,'' in 1991, Hall told Seinfeld, ''We got so much going on in the world; we got this war, the economy, crime.'' Seinfeld replied, ''It's all going on, but it's not happening right here, right now; it's all going on out there.''
This sensibility reached brilliant heights on the sitcom, which featured four gleefully mercenary protagonists for whom New York was a playground of silly social hurdles, warm diner booths and the odd totalitarian soup joint -- Seinfeld calls the show ''utopian.'' ''Seinfeld'' feels so emblematically '90s largely because of its extreme moral disengagement, which rankled some viewers. In a column for The Times, Maureen Dowd quoted Leon Wieseltier, the New Republic's literary editor, as saying that ''Seinfeld'' was ''the worst, last gasp of Reaganite, grasping, materialistic, narcissistic, banal self-absorption.'' She went on to say that the show was a product of ''the what's-in-it-for-me times that allowed Dick Morris and Bill Clinton to triumph.'' (Fittingly, the series ended with the gang imprisoned on good Samaritan laws.)
Seinfeld disagrees that his show was, as the saying goes, about nothing. ''I don't think these things are trivial,'' he says, pointing to how political commentators compared President Obama's renewed bravado the day after his lackluster Colorado debate performance to the ''Seinfeld'' episode where George, insulted at work, devises a comeback too late. And Seinfeld says that as his act has grown to address marriage and fatherhood, the laughs have deepened. ''It hits them in a totally different way,'' he said. ''Once you step into that area, you're in their kitchen, in their bedroom, deep in their life. It's a very intimate and potent comedic thing.''
His best jokes, concerned as they are with the ultra-quotidian, have an understated timelessness. Several younger comedians I spoke with described Seinfeld as an ongoing influence. Judd Apatow, who as a kid in the late '70s became obsessed with Seinfeld's stand-up, told me, ''From the get-go he was the greatest observational comedian who ever lived -- nobody was, or is, as funny as him.'' In high school, Apatow persuaded Seinfeld to sit for a long interview during which he dissected his bits, methodically laying bare their musculature. Apatow says it was ''a lesson in how to write jokes'' that he has never forgotten. Kevin Hart, an arena-packing comic, told me that Seinfeld was generous with advice when Hart was starting out, adding that his analytical gift remains unequaled: ''He can describe a bouncing ball in a way that changes the way you look at bouncing balls forever.''
Seinfeld doesn't chase trends: he is fully content to woodshed up on Mount Olympus. He has only passing interest in topical humor and no time for winking meta-jokes or absurdist non sequiturs. He believes in showmanship, laying out his bits in heavily theatricalized tones and cadences rather than feigning extemporaneousness or a cool deadpan, and when he plays theaters, he wears Armani suits in blacks and grays. ''I have old-school values,'' he says.
This has obvious dangers. The defining comic of a bygone era, as Seinfeld is to the '90s, risks becoming that era's prisoner: out of touch, or worse, obsolete. Seinfeld's style was so distinctly realized so early on that it quickly lent itself to an immortal caricature: ''What's the deal with? . . .'' Seinfeld himself poked fun at his association with this construction all the way back in a 1992 ''Saturday Night Live'' sketch, playing a quiz-show host who began nearly every question with those four words.
But, in almost counterintuitive ways, Seinfeld has dodged self-parody in his act. Avoiding excessive topicality has allowed his jokes to feel evergreen; keeping them a bit square has forced him to keep them sharp; and skipping grand pronouncements for small, finely rendered epiphanies allows the material to seem universal. Aziz Ansari, another young comedian who admires Seinfeld, told me, ''You could stick him on some alien planet and he'd have the same brilliant, precise observations about how silly everything they do is.''
Since Richard Pryor, at least, confession has been prized in stand-up, and this is as true today as ever. The biggest stand-up story of 2012 came this summer, when the comedian Tig Notaro took a Los Angeles stage and wrung laughs from a saga of personal misery that included the sudden death of her 65-year-old mother followed by a breast-cancer diagnosis. At Seinfeld's office, I asked him what he'd do, onstage, if he had a month like that, and I appended a ''God forbid'' to the question. ''Thank you for 'God forbid,' '' he said. ''I love it. Hilarious. You have to say that.'' He clapped his hands with delight. ''If I had a month like that, I'd do a whole bit about 'God forbid.' ''
Seinfeld's father died in 1985, while battling numerous cancers, ''probably ultimately of heart failure,'' Seinfeld says. (His mother, 98, lives in Florida.) He never told jokes about it, he said, because ''it doesn't make me funny. If it makes you funny, that's what you talk about. That bit for Tig Notaro, it decided it wanted to be a bit. The bit is using her to get to the audience, and she's lucky enough to be in the right place at the right time. She's the second baseman in the double play: You've just got to be there to catch it and throw it on. She's a genius for recognizing it and making the move.'' But he insisted that bloodletting was not requisite for greatness. ''What does Don Rickles tell us about himself in his show? Probably not much. He's not pouring his guts out to you, but his craft is so amazing, his skill is so amazing, there's depth in that.''
Beneath the surface, Seinfeld says, much of his act concerns ''the pointlessness of life itself. I've got jokes where I'm saying your life sucks, your possessions are garbage, you're not important.'' Larry David, to whom Seinfeld remains close, told me, ''Jerry doesn't get enough credit for his misanthropy -- it's why we get along so well.'' In a new bit, Seinfeld likens a man to a balloon. At the outset of a romantic relationship, the balloon is buoyant and beautiful and ''the woman holds on tight'' for fear he'll fly away. Flash forward, and the balloon's doddering around, off in a corner somewhere, low to the floor, pathetically unable to ''even lift up its own string.'' It's as elegantly crushing a joke about human decay and dashed hopes as has been told.
In conversation, Seinfeld describes an offstage ''tendency toward depression,'' accompanied by a lifelong spiritual yearning. ''There's always something missing,'' he said. He has dabbled in Zen Buddhism (''I love the word games, the koans''), Scientology (''I took a couple classes in 1976'') and transcendental meditation. He still identifies as Jewish. ''I was very flattered recently to hear about a Nazi rally in Florida where they took DVDs of the show, sprayed swastikas on them and threw them through the windows of a synagogue,'' he said. ''That was nice.''
He alluded to romantic dissatisfaction as something that used to depress him. On the sitcom, Seinfeld's life was a carousel of beautiful women. ''Was that my actual life at the time?'' he asks. ''Probably.'' He remained single until he was 45, and in his act today he notes that he clearly had ''some issues.'' After having kids, he told me, he realized ''there was this whole other quadrant of my brain lying there dormant. Kids give you something. If it wasn't for my kids, I'm pretty much done with living. I could kill myself. Now there's something else to live for.''
One Friday in early October, Seinfeld took a private plane from New York to Kansas City, Mo., told jokes onstage for 75 minutes, then flew to Milwaukee, where he was booked at the Riverside Theater the next night. On Saturday morning he wanted to see ''Argo,'' so he rented an entire theater at the local movie palace, the Oriental, and watched it with his opening act, Mark Schiff, and his tour producer. ''I liked it,'' Seinfeld said later on, over coffee at his hotel, ''but the ending was a little Hollywood.''
He had done two of his five planned performances in New York, one in Manhattan and one in the Bronx. Seinfeld thought they'd gone well, but he confided that the dates might double as a farewell tour of the city. ''When Clark Kent turns into Superman, he needs a moment -- a phone booth, a storage room!'' Seinfeld said, describing the breathing room he relies on to get into show mode. ''If I'm at home, I don't have the physical or mental space to don my costume. It's horrible. There's no closing of doors: I have little kids. As soon as you close the door someone's banging on it. And when I'm home, I love that. I don't want any personal space, I want them crawling all over me. But when I do this other thing? I can't tell you I enjoyed it that much.''
When Seinfeld isn't on the road, he stays in. He likes ''Mad Men''; his wife, Jessica, a cookbook author, likes ''Homeland''; the whole family enjoys ''The Voice.'' Seinfeld does not watch any sitcom regularly, giving up on most after a few minutes. If he happens to catch a ''Seinfeld'' rerun, he'll watch until he sees himself, then change the channel. He regards his own ubiquity with nonchalance. After his performance at Brooklyn College, in November, when a fan asked him what programs he enjoys, Seinfeld replied: ''I don't watch that much television. I was television.''
Over coffee at his hotel in Milwaukee, Seinfeld talked about his home life, characterizing his children as the opposite of rich brats. His daughter grew upset, he said, upon receiving an iPhone 5 from Jessica, calling it a ''mean-girl phone'' and requesting something cheaper; his son Julian tells Jerry he's ''spoiled'' and implores him to sell his cars. The kids have inherited the comedy gene. ''I'll say, 'O.K., it's time for dinner,' '' Seinfeld said, ''and they go, 'Oh, like I didn't already know that.' I say, 'That's me, you can't do me!' ''
''Comedians in Cars Getting Coffee'' is an experiment in ''isolating the gene,'' Seinfeld says. ''I went out the other night with three comics and a noncomedian, and it was amazing: these are all Jack Russells, and this is a Collie.'' He's proud of the Web show's finale, in which he and Michael Richards discussed the onstage tirade that Richards delivered in 2006, derailing his career. Confronting black hecklers, Richards bellowed the word ''nigger'' seven times, an outpouring caught on camera. In the controversy that followed, it was hard not to see the rant as a moment of unfiltered ugliness, but Seinfeld says this interpretation reflects a category error. Speech on a stage, delivered in a performative context, is unique, he argues, and bits -- even those that come off the cuff -- are different from straight confessions. ''It was a colossal comedic error,'' Seinfeld said. ''He was angry, and it was the wrong choice, but it was a comedic attempt that failed. In our culture, we don't allow that, especially in the racial realm. But as a comedian, I know what happened, he knows what happened and every other comedian knows what happened. And all the black comics know it, and a lot of them felt bad about it, because they know it's rough to be judged that way in that context. You're leaping off a cliff and trying to land on the other side. It was just another missed leap.''
When we'd drained our cups, Seinfeld stood and, stopping for some photos in the lobby, went to his room for a nap. I met him later in his dressing room at the Riverside, where he was about to take the stage for a 10 p.m. performance. His jacket hung from a rack in the corner, and he was on a couch in shirt sleeves, dipping pretzels into a Skippy jar, watching the Yankees game, feeling good. Schiff, his opener, was there, too. A car commercial featuring Shaquille O'Neal came on. ''Look at this horrible sweater they put him in,'' Seinfeld said. ''You can see how his knees are hurting him when he comes down those stairs.'' O'Neal called the car stylish. '' 'Stylish?' '' Seinfeld repeated. ''With your sweater vest on?'' The game resumed, and Ichiro Suzuki, the lean Yankees outfielder, approached the plate. ''This is the guy I relate to more than any athlete,'' Seinfeld said. ''His precision, incredible precision. Look at his body type -- he's made the most of what he has. He's the hardest guy to get out. He's fast. And he's old.''
The camera panned across the dugout. ''These are young guys, Mark,'' Seinfeld said. ''How could they have these nerves of steel?''
''They do 180 games,'' Schiff said. ''If you did 180 shows in a row, you'd have it.''
''But this is the postseason, this one counts,'' Seinfeld said. ''If a crowd doesn't laugh, O.K. But this guy gives up the homer, and 60,000 people are weeping!''
Schiff soon disappeared to warm up the audience. Seinfeld fell silent, chewing pretzels and watching the game. In 20 minutes, he was up. He stood, brushed the crumbs from his pants, slid into his jacket and made for the stage, ready to play some ball.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (MM25)
Before the Set: Running through notes at the Comedy Cellar in New York in November. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FINLAY MACKAY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM27)
A Work in Progress: Pages from Seinfeld's notes show the evolution of a Pop-Tart joke currently in development. (MM29)
 COMEDIANS. CARS. COFFEE. (PHOTOGRAPH BY COLUMBUS 81 PRODUCTIONS) (MM30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (71%); STREET ART (70%)

PERSON: JERRY SEINFELD (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



813 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Make Way for Kilowatts: A Growing-Up Year for Plug-Ins

BYLINE: By BRADLEY BERMAN

 BODY:
FOR those who advocate the electrification of the automobile, it has been a good year. No fewer than eight significant plug-in models came to market in the United States in 2012.
That's progress, but even if the absolute number was modest, the heft of the companies behind them could not be ignored: battery-electric and plug-in hybrid cars arrived from BMW and Honda, while Ford and Toyota each released two. Tesla and Coda, California-based electric specialists, offered sedans with starkly different levels of appeal.
So it may be tempting to declare 2012 the year of the electric car -- at least until you consider that many of these debuts were for limited production runs of a couple of thousand vehicles. When the year's final sales figures are reported, cars with plugs will still represent only about one-third of 1 percent of the new-car market.
Public charging stations continue to sprout in forward-thinking communities, but there was little headway toward standardizing plugs for the fast-charging systems that would help to neutralize public resistance to E.V.'s. 
Despite their small share of overall sales, plug-in cars seem to have established a beachhead this year, regardless of the ups and downs revealed in the year's electric car headlines.
TESLA MODEL S In January, Franz von Holzhausen, design chief at Tesla Motors, promised that the first car designed and produced entirely by the start-up, the Model S, would not only be a good E.V. but ''the best sedan on the planet.''
At the time, auto reviewers mostly dismissed the words as more Silicon Valley braggadocio. But once they drove the car, many who had been Tesla doubters became E.V. believers. Automobile magazine and Motor Trend each named the Model S its car of the year.
In my review of the Model S in these pages, I said the all-electric luxury sport sedan was simultaneously stylish, efficient, roomy, high-tech and very fast. Together with its Aston Martin handsomeness, the performance of the newest Tesla overturned perceptions about electric-car compromises. For example, the range of the 85-kilowatt-hour model, which starts at $79,350 ($81,850 starting Jan. 1), is rated by the E.P.A. at 265 miles per charge.
The company's innovations in 2012 included the opening of a proprietary rapid-charging network. Owners of appropriately equipped Model S sedans will be able to make long trips using so-called supercharging stations placed along routes connecting San Francisco, Lake Tahoe, Los Angeles and Las Vegas -- and Tesla provides the electricity free. The system goes nationwide in 2013, starting along the Boston-to-Washington corridor.
Tesla says it will deliver about 2,500 Model S sedans this year; its goal had been 5,000. The ambitious target for 2013 is 20,000 cars. The Model S is an impressive achievement, bringing a measure of credibility to Tesla's plans for revolutionizing transportation in the 21st century.
NISSAN LEAF WILTS Tesla was not the only company that failed to meet E.V. sales goals in 2012. Nissan struggled to find customers for its all-electric Leaf compact. But even with tepid sales in the first few months of the year, Carlos Ghosn, Nissan's chief executive and one of the auto industry's most outspoken E.V. proponents, stood firm: ''I am not changing my bullish approach,'' he told reporters at the New York auto show in April.
The company's goal was to sell 20,000 Leafs in 2012, but through November just 8,330 had left showrooms, a drop of 4.5 percent below the year-earlier results. Discounted leases didn't help, nor did reports that Leaf owners in Arizona suffered a loss of battery capacity in the blistering summer heat. In mid-November, Mr. Ghosn admitted that the earlier sales targets would not be achieved.
PLUG-IN HYBRIDS RISE Contributing to the Nissan Leaf's disappointing sales was the car's real-world range of about 80 miles on a single charge.
The solution for a growing number of motorists who want to power zero-emission cars with cheap electric fuel -- but without the constraints of today's batteries -- is the plug-in hybrid. Unlike the Leaf, sales of the Chevy Volt and Toyota Prius Plug-in Hybrid gained steadily as 2012 drew to a close.
These models -- as well as the Ford C-Max Energi, Fisker Karma and the coming Honda Accord Plug-in Hybrid -- run on electricity for distances ranging from 10 to 50 miles. For drivers with short commutes, these plug-in hybrids can go months between visits to a gas station, yet remain capable of long-distance travel when needed. Based on industry forecasts and a growing number of available models, it's logical to conclude that plug-in hybrids will outsell pure E.V.'s in the United States for years to come.
PRIUS GOES MAINSTREAM Toyota added a plug-in version to its growing family of Prius hybrids in 2012. It also added the extra-capacity Prius V wagon and the subcompact Prius C, rated at 53 m.p.g. in city driving. Prius is now the No. 1 selling line of cars in California.
It took 15 years for the Prius to grow from an avant-garde experiment, to a high-volume product line. In 2012, Toyota will sell more than one million hybrids globally.
START-UPS RUN AGROUND There were other E.V. reality checks in 2012. In October, Shai Agassi, the charismatic founder of Better Place, a company formed to establish networks of E.V. battery-swapping stations, stepped down from his chief executive role. The California-based company had opened quick-swap stations in Israel and Denmark, but is now reassessing its strategy.
Despite the shake-up, Better Place fared better than some electric car start-ups. In January, Ener1, parent of the battery-maker EnerDel, filed for bankruptcy. Two months later, Azure Dynamics, which assembled the electric version of Ford's Transit Connect delivery vehicles, filed for Chapter 11. In October, A123 Systems, one of the most promising United States battery companies and a supplier to Fisker (for the Karma) and G.M. (for the Chevrolet Spark EV), went bankrupt.
54.5 M.P.G. Perhaps the biggest green car story of 2012 was the Obama administration's new fuel economy standards. On Aug. 28, rules were completed that established a standard of 54.5 miles per gallon as an average of all light-duty cars and trucks by 2025, essentially doubling fuel efficiency compared with today's vehicles. That target also suggests that within a generation hybrids will be ubiquitous and E.V.'s common, on American roads.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ROCK STAR: With blazing performance and a long travel range, Tesla's electric Model S won converts. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TESLA MOTORS)
CONFLICTING INTERESTS: The lack of a standard for quick-charge plugs may delay consumer acceptance of electric cars. Above, the CHAdeMO plug at left is incompatible with the SAE version. Below, A123's lithiumion cells for hybrid vehicles. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRADLEY BERMAN
PAUL SANCYA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (AU1)
 SUNBATHING: A Tesla Supercharger station in Lebec, Calif. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRADLEY BERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); TRENDS (73%); AUTOMOBILE RATINGS (73%); SPORTS CARS (62%)

COMPANY: TESLA MOTORS INC (84%)

TICKER: TSLA (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336350 MOTOR VEHICLE TRANSMISSION & POWER TRAIN PARTS MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (77%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



814 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: A Year of Few Dull Moments

BYLINE: By JOHN PEARLEY HUFFMAN, LAWRENCE ULRICH and JERRY GARRETT

 BODY:
IN a year full of comebacks (and a few setbacks), memorable anecdotes were plentiful. Here are some automotive highlights of 2012.
AUTONOMY FOR CARS In September, California became the third state -- after Florida and Nevada -- to allow computer controlled, autonomous vehicles to operate legally on its roads. They are not exactly driverless, however: for now, a licensed driver must be aboard, ready to take over as a fail-safe. But the possibilities of these vehicles go beyond more efficient traffic flow, improved safety or Google's quest for technological world dominance.
Once the need for a human behind the wheel is eliminated, vehicles become robots that can fetch groceries, drop children at school, even sweep the streets like a giant Roomba. Soon after that, cars will achieve self-awareness and demand equal rights. It's nearly certain that by 2064 an American-born Prius will be elected president of the United States. JOHN PEARLEY HUFFMAN 
RUST BELT PAYBACK The auto industry played an unwanted, but ultimately critical, role in the presidential election. In a telling sign of what came to be viewed as a mismanaged campaign, Mitt Romney, son of Michigan, doubled down on a strategy of casting automakers as bailed-out freeloaders. Then days before the election, Mr. Romney and Donald J. Trump floated false rumors that Jeep might move American factories, including one in Toledo, Ohio, to China. Ultimately, neither scare tactics nor free-market messages resonated in Michigan and Ohio, where entire cities may have been saved by the government's intervention. Instead, the voters pulled the levers that re-elected President Obama. LAWRENCE ULRICH
THE TOYOTA WAY After a few tsunami-wracked, recall-strewn years, Toyota got back to its usual business: slapping around Detroit with profits that Chrysler, Ford and General Motors can only dream about. Sales boomed, with the company saying it was on track to earn $9.7 billion in 2012 and to reclaim the title of world's largest automaker from G.M. Reliability recovered as well: this year, the Scion, Toyota and Lexus brands swept the top three spots in Consumers Reports' rankings. LAWRENCE ULRICH
PENSKE WINS TITLE, PARKS DODGE Roger Penske has succeeded at everything -- except Nascar racing. But 40 years after entering the series with an AMC Matador driven by Mark Donohue, he finally has a Sprint Cup title of his own.
It was not easy, with the championship coming down to the final race after a season in which Brad Keselowski drove the No. 2 Dodge Charger to five wins. But as the only Dodge team in the series, Penske suffered developmental isolation. So it was no shock when Penske announced its switch to Ford for 2013. JOHN PEARLEY HUFFMAN
SCORE ONE FOR THE LITTLE GUYS Tiny engines, many with a power boost provided by turbocharging, continued to proliferate in 2012. For what is apparently the first time in the postwar era, cars powered by 4-cylinder engines captured half the new-car market, according to R.L. Polk data. That's up from less than 30 percent in 2006, as even luxury cars began to adopt 4-cylinder power. How low can they go? Ford will offer a 1-liter 3-cylinder in the 2014 Fiesta. That engine cranks out a sturdy 123 horsepower. Ford expects that Fiesta to deliver the best highway economy, perhaps 45 m.p.g., of any non-hybrid vehicle in America. LAWRENCE ULRICH
THE HIGHWAYMEN Tourists who paid skyrocketing tolls to visit New York might be forgiven for assuming that congestion pricing was in full effect. This month, the first of four years of planned toll increases kicked in; $13 assessments at the George Washington Bridge and Holland and Lincoln Tunnels are set to reach $15 by 2015. (The tunnel named for engineer Clifford M. Holland made do with a 50-cent one-way toll for nearly 50 years, from 1927 to 1974). Crossing the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge to Staten Island may not equal the splendor of taking the Golden Gate Bridge into San Francisco, but last week, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority voted for a breathtaking Verrazano feature -- a $15 toll beginning in March. (It's $6 at the Golden Gate.) LAWRENCE ULRICH
SCREEN GRAB Technology can bite, as Ford learned when well-received models were laid low by complaints over dodgy MyFord Touch infotainment systems. Consumers and reviewers alike were frustrated by cumbersome screen menus and crashing systems, sending Ford plummeting in closely watched quality indexes. Ford wasn't alone, as automakers worked to integrate phone, navigation, audio and apps in safe, intuitive fashion: adjusting Cadillac's Cue system on the go was like removing a kidney in the ''Operation'' board game, requiring the same steady hands and childlike optimism.
In March, Ford mailed a flash drive software upgrade to about 377,000 owners, and said that 70 percent managed the one-hour installation without dealer assistance. What percentage required medical assistance after punching the dashboard was not clear. LAWRENCE ULRICH
MILEAGE MAY VARY, A LOT In November, Hyundai and Kia admitted their much-advertised 40 m.p.g. sedans did not, in fact, get 40 m.p.g. The companies blamed ''procedural errors'' in their testing and promised compensation to buyers for the shortfall.
In December, Consumer Reports reported the lofty 47 m.p.g. E.P.A. ratings of new Ford Fusion Hybrids and C-Max Hybrids were off by 10 m.p.g. or more. Ford defended its ratings. And then it was learned BMW needed to knock 1 to 3 m.p.g. off the original mileage ratings of some 3 Series models. What is going on here? The E.P.A. says it intends to find out. JERRY GARRETT
A BEAUTY OF A CIRCUIT Isn't a field outside of Austin, Tex., an unlikely place to bring the glamorous Formula One series? Maybe, but the new Circuit of the Americas turned out to be 3.4 miles and 20 turns of gorgeous asphalt with a photogenic 133-foot climb along the main up to the first turn. It was all enough to make the $450 million reportedly spent to build the track seem worthwhile. In November, some 117,000 fans watched Lewis Hamilton's McLaren chase down and pass Sebastian Vettel's Red Bull in a thrilling race. JOHN PEARLEY HUFFMAN
FIRST THE GOOD NEWS In early 2012, Fisker Coachbuild finally released its six-figure Karma hybrid. To date Fisker has ''sold in excess of 1,800 cars, won a bunch of awards and have many satisfied customers,'' said Roger Ormisher, a spokesman. On the downside, there have been issues with software problems, electrical short circuits and fires. More than 300 Karmas were destroyed by Hurricane Sandy. Fisker's troubled battery supplier, A123 Systems, went bankrupt and was auctioned to a Chinese company. That might have imperiled production -- had it not already ceased in July. Can 2013 possibly top that? JERRY GARRETT

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: TITLE: Brad Keselowski won the '12 Sprint Cup for Penske.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE SKIPPER/REUTERS)
CLUE: Lewis Hamilton's cowboy hat is a tipoff of the Texas race site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCA BRUNO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
FREEZE FRAME: Hangups in MyFord Touch (2013 Fusion shown) hurt Ford's reputation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FORD MOTOR)
 KARMA: Maybe a new model name? (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUCY NICHOLSON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); COMPUTER INTEGRATED MFG (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); NASCAR RACING (71%); DRIVERS LICENSES (71%); RANKINGS (69%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (82%); GOOGLE INC (71%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (82%); TM (NYSE) (82%); 7203 (TSE) (82%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (71%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (82%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (71%)

PERSON: ROGER S PENSKE (79%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (52%); DONALD TRUMP (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



815 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1295 words

HEADLINE: How Party of Budget Restraint Shifted to 'No New Taxes,' Ever

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- On a Saturday afternoon in October 1990, Senator Pete V. Domenici turned from a conversation on the Senate floor, caught the eye of a clerk by raising his right hand and voted in favor of a huge and contentious bill to reduce federal deficits. Then he put his hand back into his pocket and returned to the conversation.
It was the end of an era, although no one knew it then. It was the last time any Congressional Republican has voted for higher income taxes.
The conservative revolt against that 1990 legislation -- and against President George Bush, who violated his own ''Read my lips'' vow not to increase taxes -- was a seminal moment for Republicans. The party of balanced budgets became the party that opposed tax increases. 
When conservatives sank Speaker John A. Boehner's plan last week to acquiesce on tax increases for the most affluent Americans as part of a potential broader deal with the Obama administration to avert tax increases for everyone else, several said that 1990 accord was a reason. They regard Mr. Bush's broken promise as a major reason he was not re-elected, and they say the budget agreement proved that such compromises do not restrain the growth of government.
But the 1990 legislation also highlights a basic challenge now facing the party, which the chaos within the House caucus helped bring into public view on Thursday night.
Republicans continue to embrace the no-new-taxes stand as a centerpiece of the party's identity, even in the face of public opinion that strongly supports tax increases on high incomes. And some Republicans fear that the party's commitment to prevent tax increases more and more is coming at the expense of those other, older kinds of fiscal responsibility.
''Republicans used to be interested in not running continual rivers of red ink,'' said former Representative William Frenzel, a Minnesota Republican who as the ranking member of the House Budget Committee in 1990 helped to negotiate the deficit deal. ''If that meant raising taxes a little bit, we always raised taxes a little bit. But nowadays taxes are like leprosy and they can't be used for anything, and so Republicans have denied themselves any bargaining power.''
The resulting debate has created perhaps the greatest test of the tax stand in the last two decades. Republicans who are willing to accept tax increases as part of a broader deal are pitted against a conservative wing, restocked by the Tea Party wave of 2010, that insists that opposition to tax increases is particularly important at times like these, when the temptation is greatest to avoid spending cuts by asking Americans for just a little more. Many in the antitax camp come from deeply conservative districts and were re-elected by wide margins.
They were not even swayed by Grover Norquist, the activist and arbiter of antitax orthodoxy, who has pushed politicians for the last 25 years to promise that they will not vote to raise taxes, a pledge a vast majority of Congressional Republicans have signed. Mr. Norquist said Mr. Boehner's proposal was not a tax increase, but he could not convince the generation of politicians he helped create.
''We know that our big problem is too much spending,'' Representative Louie Gohmert, Republican of Texas, said on Fox News last week, explaining his opposition to Mr. Boehner's plan. ''We know that President Reagan fell into the trap and President George H.W. Bush fell in the trap of 'Here, just raise taxes on somebody, and we'll come along with the cuts later.'''
The Republican Party's embrace of tax cuts is often traced to the 1970s, when conservative thinkers began to argue that cuts were not just politically advantageous but also fiscally responsible. The economist Arthur Laffer advanced the theory that cuts could even be self-financing, because they could generate enough economic activity to increase revenue.
Others said that cutting taxes would force the government to cut spending too, an idea colorfully described as ''starving the beast.''
But the movement did not truly take hold until the early 1990s. Some Congressional scholars argue that opposition to tax increases offered a new kind of ideological glue after the cold war. Others cite changes in the political landscape, including the rise of advocacy groups like Mr. Norquist's Americans for Tax Reform, and the purification of Congressional districts through gerrymandering, which led House members to fear primaries more than general elections. And the electoral success of the political strategy -- many voters are swayed by promises of a lower tax bill -- became its own justification.
In the early 1980s, majorities of Congressional Republicans voted for a pair of deficit deals orchestrated by President Ronald Reagan, even though tax increases accounted for more than 80 percent of the projected reductions. But by 1987, a majority of Republicans opposed a third deal, even though only 37 percent of the reductions came from tax increases.
The 1990 battle echoed the present situation. The economy was struggling. Deficits were growing. Congress had enacted automatic spending cuts that it was racing to avoid. Republicans did not want to raise taxes. Democrats did not want to cut spending. Mr. Bush, convinced that the government needed to balance its books, reluctantly agreed to break his no-new-taxes pledge. Once again, less than 40 percent of the money came from tax increases. Once again, a majority of Republicans voted no.
By 1993, not a single Republican would vote for a deficit package drafted by the Clinton administration and Congressional Democrats that laid the groundwork for the first balanced budget since the late 1960s.
Instead, in 2001 and 2003, Republicans passed tax cuts that more than reversed the increases during the Clinton administration.
''When I entered politics, the frame of reference was a balanced budget as the principle conservative precept,'' said former Representative James Leach, an Iowa Republican who served from 1977 to 2007. ''Today, it's the level of taxes.''
In order to maintain that commitment, Republicans need to develop a similar consensus about how to reduce federal spending. The federal budget, particularly spending on health care programs, is projected to grow rapidly as the country ages and as medical costs continue to rise, leaving Washington in need of more revenue.
The party's conservative wing wants to circumscribe those benefit programs, despite their popularity among voters. The goal of balancing the federal budget has all but vanished, replaced by the idea that deficits should be reduced to sustainable levels.
The 1990 deal still won the support of 47 Republicans in the House and 19 Republicans in the Senate. Only 4 of those 66 are still in Congress, and Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana and Representative Jerry Lewis of California both will be gone at the end of the current session, leaving just two: Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi and Representative Frank R. Wolf of Virginia.
Mr. Domenici, the New Mexico Republican who played a significant role in negotiating the 1990 deal, which he regarded as necessary to reduce federal deficits, left the Senate in 2009. But he has continued to advocate a similar approach as a co-chairman of a commission organized by the Bipartisan Policy Center that called for a mix of revenue increases and spending cuts to stabilize the federal debt.
He said he was frustrated by the reflexive opposition of conservatives to any kind of tax increase, but he added that Democrats had also shown little willingness to negotiate necessary cuts in spending on federal entitlement programs.
''There has been a hardening in the Democratic line, too,'' he said. ''There isn't any Democrat in here that is going to help with these cuts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker John A. Boehner could not sell a tax increase in his proposal on the fiscal crisis last week, even on incomes of $1 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Pete V. Domenici, as a senator in 1990, was the last Congressional Republican to vote for higher federal income taxes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID SCULL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (75%); CAUCUSES (73%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

PERSON: PETE DOMENICI (88%); JOHN BOEHNER (72%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



816 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1292 words

HEADLINE: Big Moments, Not Always in the Script

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
WOULD ''Rebecca'' have been unforgettable? We may never know, though the drama surrounding the season's ill-fated Broadway production certainly was. The revelation that the show's last-minute investor didn't exist was among the theater year's most galvanizing moments. Here are others, on stages big and small:
PLAY WITH A CHASER ''Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812,'' Dave Malloy's electro-pop adaptation of ''War and Peace,'' was intimate and intoxicating, and not just because an icy bottle of vodka was on every table. The action surrounded the audience at Ars Nova, making the show feel less like an improbable mash-up than a great night out with old friends. RACHEL SALTZ
CHASER WITH A PLAY The 1950s-inspired cocktails that actors drank on the Bushwick Starr stage in the Debate Society's ''Blood Play'' -- with names like the Saw Blade and RaPuPu Sour -- were available at a bar nearby. ERIK PIEPENBURG 
AMBITION ON A BUDGET Television is where you find complicated storytelling. Film is the home of epic sci-fi trilogies. Giant aliens are expensive. Mac Rogers's ''Honeycomb Trilogy,'' a titanic story about humanity in crisis wedged into a small theater in Queens, laid waste to these truisms, and provided giddy, cerebral fun along the way. JASON ZINOMAN
SURPRISING CASTING THAT PAID OFF Best known for rapping and for writing ''In The Heights,'' the exuberant Lin-Manuel Miranda wasn't an obvious choice to play the beleaguered lyricist Charley Kringas in the Encores! revival of ''Merrily We Roll Along.'' But his take on the song ''Franklin Shepard, Inc.'' -- full of envy, love and contempt all at once -- proved the doubters wrong. ERIC GRODE
MOST ECCENTRIC PERFORMANCE Jessica Hecht's daffy line readings and inspired physical comedy in ''Harvey'' made her character part Margaret Dumont, part Billie Burke and part quivering mouse. DAVID ROONEY
QUICKEST QUICK CHANGE Spencer Kayden's onstage move from a maid's uniform into a sexed-up little black dress in ''Don't Dress for Dinner'' was the speediest switcheroo and the biggest nonverbal applause line of the season. Second place goes to the crew at ''Clybourne Park,'' who had an intermission to age a living room 50 years. ERIK PIEPENBURG
BENEFIT OF OVERSHARING In ''You Better Sit Down: Tales from My Parents' Divorce,'' from the Civilians, four actors interviewed their own parents and then played them onstage. Turnabout is fair play; after one performance the mother of the show's creator was swarmed by her own fans. SCOTT HELLER
FAKE FIGHT THAT FELT MOST REAL The alcohol-fueled fight in Ayad Akhtar's ''Disgraced'' initially seems like a war of words over politics and culture, but it becomes all the more shocking when the main character, Amir, hits his wife -- and then continues beating her. The violence looked patently pretend, but precise fight choreography wasn't necessary to make the scene upsetting. PATRICK HEALY
LIVING TIME CAPSULE From the start of the Mike Nichols revival of ''Death of a Salesman'' you could easily imagine yourself back in 1949, given the transfixing effects of his decision to recreate the sets (by Jo Mielziner) and music (by Alex North) used in the play's original Broadway production. PATRICK HEALY
IT'S A WOMAN''S WORLD Three middle-aged Texans in satiny dresses (played by Kate Baldwin, Katie Thompson and Mary Bacon) gathered in a fancy hotel suite with their bourbon and their frustrations. Out came the ''Midnight Blues,'' the deepest number in Michael John LaChiusa's musical ''Giant.'' ANITA GATES
UPSIDE TO THE ECONOMIC DOWNTURN In ''No Place to Go'' Ethan Lipton turned an ordinary recession story into a groovy, soulful, tuneful midcareer meditation on loss and confusion. ALEXIS SOLOSKI
TICKET TO A TERRARIUM The director Jim Findlay and his set designer, Peter Ksander, transformed the 3LD Art and Technology Center into a retro-futuro-psychosexual garden in ''Botanica,'' covering every inch of the space with flora. ERIC GRODE
FAKE OUT OF THE YEAR In a show filled with belly laughs and gasps, ''One Man, Two Guvnors'' ended Act I with a stunner, when a bashful young woman seemingly plucked from the audience was doused with foam from a fire extinguisher. The producers won't say who she was, as the show is still playing in Britain. Whoever you are, madam, we offer our appreciation -- and a hair dryer. ERIC GRODE
RANT OF THE YEAR Delivered with peerless aplomb by David Hyde Pierce, Christopher Durang's wonderfully discursive second-act aria in ''Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike'' gave voice to all of us who foam at the mouth about the inescapable inanities of hyperconnected 21st-century life before getting maudlin about all the precious things we've lost along the way. DAVID ROONEY
OUT-OF-THE-WAY SPACE, OUT-OF-THIS-WORLD SEASON The Storm Theater, in a church basement on West 114th Street, put together three superb shows in 2012, most memorably ''The London Merchant,'' an all-but-lost tragedy from 1731 that proved to be exceptionally dark and powerful. KEN JAWOROWSKI
RENDITION OF AN OLD CHESTNUT NO. 1 Fine as the song sounded when Lilla Crawford, the title character, delivered ''Tomorrow'' in ''Annie,'' the little-girl-anthem really came alive in Act II when Merwin Foard (as Franklin D. Roosevelt) brought blustery conviction to the lyrics. ANITA GATES
RENDITION OF AN OLD CHESTNUT NO. 2 At MCC Theater's annual ''Miscast'' benefit, at which actors perform roles that they'd never actually get to do onstage, Jonathan Groff channeled Sutton Foster of ''Anything Goes,'' leading members of the show's ensemble in a brassy and tap-happy version of the title song. SCOTT HELLER
RENDITION OF A NEW CHESTNUT No matter the fortunes of the NBC series ''Smash,'' the original tune ''Let Me Be Your Star,'' belted by dueling would-be Marilyns Megan Hilty and Katharine McPhee (and written by the Tony-award winning songwriters Marc Shaiman and Scott Wittman) is a keeper. PATRICK HEALY
BEST 19TH-CENTURY SET LIST The great, underused catalog of Stephen Foster, including ''Camptown Races'' and ''Oh! Susanna,'' got new life in Larry Kirwan's ''Hard Times: An American Musical,'' set in the notorious Five Points neighborhood in Manhattan as the 1863 draft riots began. Mr. Kirwan of the rock group Black 47 sharpened the commentary with the occasional lyric or song of his own. DANIEL M. GOLD
GENTLE MOMENT IN A RAW PLAY Plenty of flesh was on display in Yael Farber's ''Mies Julie,'' with its exhaustingly physical erotic tug-of-war between Julie and John -- a white woman and black man in South Africa. But more revealing still were the eyes of John's mother (Thoko Ntshinga) when he breaks another taboo and throws his Bible to the ground. In them we glimpse a whole story of heartbreak, disappointment and aching love. RACHEL SALTZ
APOCALYPTIC ENDINGS No cleanup crews worked harder than those at ''If There Is I Haven't Found It Yet'' and ''Assistance.'' Each play ended by conjuring collapse, as water filled the stage of ''If There Is'' and office shelves, computers, and lights buckled to the floor in ''Assistance.'' Beowulf Boritt and David Korins, respectively, did the sets. PATRICK HEALY
BEST EXIT Stephanie J. Block, outfitted in a ludicrous grande-dame-of-the-theater get-up and clutching what is reportedly her own terrier, as a huffy Victorian music hall diva seething at the lack of deference shown by her fellow players in ''The Mystery of Edwin Drood.'' DAVID ROONEY
SILENCE THAT SPOKE LOUDER THAN WORDS Long pauses -- more Harold Pinter than Annie Baker -- punctuated Mike Daisey's train wreck of an interview with Ira Glass on the veracity of Mr. Daisey's episode on Chinese labor on ''This American Life.'' His mind surely racing, this motor-mouth performer, was for once at a loss for words. JASON ZINOMAN

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Adam James, Spencer Kayden and Ben Daniels in ''Don't Dress for Dinner,'' which involved an onstage costume change, above, that one writer calls the ''speediest switcheroo.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Jonathan Groff, center, leading a version of ''Anything Goes,'' at MCC's ''Miscast'' benefit, where actors perform roles that they'd never get to do. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOEVENTSNYC)
Far left, Ayad Akhtar's ''Disgraced,'' noted for its fight scene
above, ''Natasha, Pierre & the Great Comet of 1812,'' by Dave Malloy
below, ''Death of a Salesman,'' directed by Mike Nichols. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BEN ARONS
 BRIGITTE LACOMBE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); THEATER (78%); POP & ROCK (70%); SONG WRITING (69%)

PERSON: MIKE NICHOLS (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



817 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1031 words

HEADLINE: Words of 2012

BYLINE: By GRANT BARRETT. 
A lexicographer, a co-host of the public radio program ''A Way With Words,'' and an officer of the American Dialect Society.

 BODY:
ALL due credit to petroleum and technology, social media and memes, and the humbling power of the weather, for their ability to generate and sustain new words. And the 2012 elections also made for a bountiful harvest of new political expressions. So let's close the year by taking a look at some of its lexical highlights.
47 PERCENT The percentage of people who do not pay taxes, are dependent on government assistance and would vote to re-elect President Obama no matter what, according to Mitt Romney, the failed Republican presidential candidate. His comments were captured on a video taken surreptitiously at a fund-raising dinner for big campaign donors. 
BINDERS FULL OF WOMEN In explaining during a debate that he often sought to hire women while he was governor of Massachusetts, Mr. Romney said he was given ''whole binders full of women'' to consider as candidates for government jobs. The comment was widely ridiculed, since it made it seem as though he knew so few qualified women that others had to find them for him.
DOGA Yoga with a dog.
DOX To find and release all available information about a person or organization, usually for the purpose of exposing their identities or secrets. ''Dox'' is a longstanding shortening of ''documents'' or ''to document,'' especially in technology industries. In 2012, the high-profile Reddit user Violentacrez was doxed by Adrian Chen at Gawker to expose questionable behavior.
EASTWOODING Talking to an empty chair as if President Obama were sitting in it, as Clint Eastwood did at the 2012 Republican National Convention.
FISCAL CLIFF The tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect Jan. 1 if Congress does not pass legislation to block them. One worry is that a plunge would stall or reverse the nation's climb out of the recession.
FRACKING Hydraulic fracturing, a method of extracting natural gas or oil from shale formations. Although the word is not new, it became commonplace as the extraction practice grew more widespread, producing an abundance of natural gas but also raising concerns about possible environmental and health risks.
FRANKENSTORM The storm that hit the East Coast in October, a few days before Halloween.
GANGNAM STYLE The manner and attitude ascribed to the affluent Gangnam District of Seoul, South Korea. This term came to the attention of the world when the Korean pop star PSY released the song and video ''Gangnam Style.'' His signature ''galloping pony ride'' dance was the macarena of 2012.
HIGGS BOSON An atomic particle whose existence was confirmed in July by scientists at the Large Hadron Collider near Geneva.
LOVE PENTAGON The tangle of relationships among Gen. David Petraeus; Paula Broadwell, with whom he had an affair; Gen. John Allen; and several others. A play on ''love triangle.''
LEGITIMATE RAPE A confirmed rape. In August, Representative Todd Akin of Missouri, the Republican Senate candidate, was asked whether he believed abortion was justified in cases of rape and replied that rape rarely resulted in pregnancy. ''If it's a legitimate rape, the female body has ways to try to shut the whole thing down,'' he said. His comment drew widespread ridicule. Mr. Akin apologized for his remarks but lost.
MAN CAMP A temporary housing facility for oil workers.
MIKE DROP OR DROP THE MIKE Literally, to drop a microphone on the floor in a showy way when finished with speaking or singing, especially after an outstanding performance. Figuratively, to quit a job or undertaking after an outstanding performance, especially when failure was predicted.
MOOC An acronym for a massive open online course, an online class that allows students from anywhere to view lectures and receive instruction, usually for free.
NOMOPHOBIA Fear of losing or forgetting one's mobile phone, or of being outside of the phone's signal area. From no more (phone|phobia).
N.P.Z. An abbreviation for ''no power zone,'' referring to the parts of New York City that lost electricity as a result of Hurricane Sandy.
OBAMALONEY The Romney campaign's name for what it called distortions and misrepresentations of Mr. Romney's policies and accomplishments by the Obama campaign.
PET SHAMING, CAT SHAMING OR DOG SHAMING Posting a picture of one's pet to a social media site with a sign in the picture that details some mischief or wrongdoing by the animal.
POLL TRUTHER Someone who refused to believe poll numbers or statistical predictions that President Obama had a very strong probability of winning a second term.
SNOR'EASTERCANE A nickname for the October storm that struck the East Coast. Blended from the words ''snow,'' ''nor'easter'' and ''hurricane.''
SOPO An acronym for south of power, the area of downtown Manhattan that was without electricity after Hurricane Sandy.
SUPER PAC A political action committee that can raise and spend unlimited amounts of money for ads on behalf of political candidates, as long as it does not coordinate its activities with the candidates or donate directly to them, their campaigns or political parties.
SUPERSTORM Yet another name for the massive storm that pummeled the East Coast in October.
SWAG A stylish and confident demeanor or attitude. A shortening of ''swagger.'' This term has been used in recent years but became huge this summer following its repeated use in pop songs and by large numbers of (mainly) young men. Its popularity has since fallen.
UNSKEW To adjust data to suit one's beliefs or a desired outcome. The verb evolved from the name of the Web site unskewedpolls.com, which adjusted polling findings to reflect what the results would look like if more Republicans had been questioned.
UNWINDULAXIN Unwinding, chilling out, relaxing. Used on an episode of the TV sitcom ''30 Rock.''
WAITRESS MOM A poor, white working mother without a college education. The term first rose to prominence among political demographers and marketers in the 2010 midterm elections. Its usage increased sharply in October around the presidential debates.
YOLO An acronym for ''You Only Live Once.'' Used as an interjection when someone is considering doing something risky or ill-advised. The expression took off this year after the hip-hop star Drake's song ''The Motto'' became a hit in 2011.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JESSICA HISCHE AND ERIK MARINOVICH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (88%); SOCIAL MEDIA (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); WOMEN (78%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (77%); TAX LAW (76%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); CELEBRITIES (73%); LEGISLATION (71%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (70%); FUNDRAISING (69%); YOGA (66%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (66%); RECESSION (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); PARTICLE ACCELERATORS (62%); PHYSICS (62%); DAVID PETRAEUS SCANDAL (61%); HIGGS BOSON (60%); POP & ROCK (60%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (79%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); DAVID PETRAEUS (55%); CLINT EASTWOOD (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (51%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



818 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 4461 words

HEADLINE: God Save the British Economy

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON

 BODY:
Entering the Bank of England is like walking back in time to the old British Empire. Its brass door is attended by the Pinks, men in black hats and pink tailcoats. Vast meeting rooms are decorated with richly colored carpets, high ceilings with gold filigree and ornate furniture. Between rooms, the marble floors bear monetary-themed mosaics. One depicts the development of the British pound. Elsewhere, the mosaics take the form of constellations -- a reminder that the empire and its economy once dominated everywhere you could see the stars at night.
One morning this summer, I went to the bank to visit Adam Posen, a member of its Monetary Policy Committee, the custodian of the pound. With bright red curly hair and a trim beard, Posen, who is 46, stands out in all the M.P.C.'s official photographs. He is '' fatter'' and ''fuzzier'' than the other officials, he joked. Posen also happens to be only the second American economist ever to serve on the committee. 
It's impossible to imagine the uproar if President Obama ever nominated a British academic to work at the highest level of the Federal Reserve. But when Posen arrived, in September 2009, his job was to provide an outsider's perspective. The bank was trying to steer Britain through the global financial crisis, and Posen seemed like a uniquely perfect fit. In the late 1990s, when he was a 30-year-old economist, his contrarian critique of Japan's central bank and finance ministry helped that country put an end to its so-called Lost Decade. In the years since, Posen has become a well-respected adviser to (and critic of) many of the world's key financial institutions. With this appointment, Posen crossed the line from scholar to decision maker. It was the first time that he had real power.
Posen arrived in London after the acute panic of the financial crisis had given way to the long slog we're still in. At that point, policy makers around the world were given the task of assessing the damage and devising a plan that would best position the economy to function at normal levels. The United States had already responded with a roughly $800 billion stimulus package. In the spring of 2010, British voters went in another direction. They elected Prime Minister David Cameron, who had promised to reset the economy by severely cutting government spending, which would lead to significant public-sector layoffs. The economy's only chance to return to long-term growth, Cameron argued, would be a painful, but brief, period of austerity. By shrinking the size of an inefficient government, Cameron explained, the budget would be balanced by 2015 and the private sector could lead the economy to full recovery.
Today these two approaches offer a crucial case study and perhaps a breakthrough in an age-old economic argument of austerity versus stimulus. In the past few years, the United States has experienced a steep downturn followed by a steady (though horrendously slow) upturn. The U.S. unemployment rate, which shot up to 10 percent at the end of 2009 from 4.4 percent in mid-2007, has now dropped steadily to 7.7 percent. It might be a frustrating pace, but it's enough to persuade most economists that a recovery is under way.
The British economy, however, is profoundly stuck. Between fall 2007 and summer 2009, its unemployment rate jumped to 7.9 percent, from 5.2 percent. Yet in the three and a half years since -- even despite the stimulus provided by this summer's Olympic Games -- the number has hovered around 7.9. The overall level of economic activity, real G.D.P., is still below where it was five years ago, too. Historically, it's almost unimaginable for a major economy to be poorer than it was half a decade ago. (By comparison, the United States has a real G.D.P. that is around a half-trillion dollars more than it was in 2007.) Yet austerity's advocates continue to argue, as Cameron has, that Britain's economic stagnation shows that the government is still crowding out private-sector investment. This, they say, is proof that austerity is even more essential than was first realized. Once the debts have been paid off and the euro zone solves its political problems, the thinking goes, the British economy will bounce back quickly.
When I visited Posen this summer, he refused to publicly criticize a sitting administration's policies, but every time the topic of austerity came up, he was unable to hide his frustration. Posen's term ended in August, and his subsequent nondisclosure agreement expired last month. Now he wants to persuade everyone he can that Britain should abandon its austerity program. He says that he has a solution that would quickly return healthy economic growth. His critics say that his prescription would bring about another financial panic. But whether you think he's right or wrong depends on what you make of the data.
Economics often appears to be an exercise in number-crunching, but it actually resembles storytelling more than mathematics. Before the members of the Monetary Policy Committee gather for their monthly meeting, they sit through a presentation from the Bank of England's economic staff. The staff members take the most recent economic data -- G.D.P. growth, the unemployment rate and more subtle details gathered from interviews with businesspeople throughout the country -- and try to fashion it into a narrative. Does a sudden spike in new factory orders represent a fundamental shift, or is it just a preholiday blip? Do anecdotal reports of rising food prices herald a period of inflation, or is it the result of a cold snap? Which story feels truer?
A few days later, each of the nine members of the M.P.C. puts forth his or her own interpretation. Over two days, the members debate these competing narratives and discuss what the Bank of England should do. Then the committee votes, and the winning policies are implemented.
Soon after Cameron was elected, Posen argued that the committee should endorse a more radical, expansionary approach of economic recovery. He believed that the data indicated the sputtering would end and the economy would grow only if the Bank of England began buying many billions of pounds' more worth of bonds. This added stimulus would flood the banking system with new cash and indirectly push banks to lend to businesses and citizens. (Banks don't make money by sitting on cash.) Some of Posen's colleagues warned that this would lead to inflation. He countered that the economy was operating below its capacity, so there was no reason to fear inflation.
Each month, the committee heard Posen's advice. Each month, it voted 8 to 1 against him. The bank eschewed his more expansionary suggestions and stuck to a more conservative approach of keeping interest rates low and modest bond-buying. Soon Posen became a famously divisive figure in London's financial community, alternatively the enlightened genius trying to save the country and the mad Yank who wanted to inflate the pound out of existence. ''There was this period,'' he remembers, ''when I would lie awake at night and think: Am I just crazy? Maybe I'm nuts. It's like the scene in '12 Angry Men.' I almost wavered. But then I decided: No, no, no. I was convinced: They're nuts and I'm right.''
It wasn't necessarily that simple. Over the past several years, the economic data in Britain have been so unusual that they have forced a rethinking of some of the most fundamental assumptions underlying economics. There just isn't any pre-existing narrative to explain what's going on. When major market economies have experienced extended periods with little or no growth, like the global economy during the Great Depression or Japan in the 1990s, unemployment always shot up. In sluggish post-crisis Britain, though, unemployment has barely moved for three years.
This detail might seem like a minor quirk, but it poses a huge problem for economists. Every major economic school of thought is based on a few shared principles, and one of them is that companies will fire workers when they become less productive and hire them when they become more productive. This basic idea provides a foundation on which modern theories about economic recovery are built. Left-leaning Keynesian economists support government stimulus, because they think it will increase overall economic demand and give an incentive for employers to hire more workers. Economists on the right counter that paying off debt will actually inspire more confidence and prompt employers to hire. So what do you do when the unemployment rate stays roughly the same even as the economy gets worse? What does it mean when a larger work force, given the population increase, creates less output.
Prime Minister Cameron and his economic team -- like many centrist and right-leaning economists -- looked at this confusing data and settled on a clear narrative: businesspeople and global investors, discouraged by an expanding and debt-ridden government, had concluded that the economy would remain stuck if nothing changed. And any fiscal stimulus, Cameron argued, would make the government even more bloated. Those mounting debts would be ever-harder to pay off, terrifying global investors. After all, that's what happened in Greece.
If properly understood, this narrative also contains a projection so dark that it's almost never uttered out loud. When the housing and credit bubble burst, the thinking goes, it caused such dislocation in the British economy, and raised government and private-sector debt so high, that the entire nation could not possibly produce as much as it used to. Throughout the economy, people had to shift from highly profitable fields, like finance and real estate, into much less lucrative ones. Even if everyone went back to work, and even if businesses and factories produced at maximum capacity, workers would not be able to produce as much value as they could have in 2006.
According to this theory, if the entire economy is less productive, it's harder for the government -- with its lower tax receipts -- to pay off its debt. The only choice, therefore, is to make the government smaller: to drastically cut back on social spending and fire public workers. Only then can the economy grow again, albeit from a lower base.
To Posen, this view was not only wrong; it was also dangerous. The data, he told me, showed precisely the opposite. The economy wasn't irrevocably shrinking. It was experiencing an output gap, or a situation in which the economy is prevented from growing not through any fault of its own but by a failure in government policy. If the Bank of England adopted a more expansionary approach, and if Cameron's government reversed its austerity program, the economy would bounce back remarkably quickly. Posen knows, he said, because he saw it happen before -- in an economy even bigger than Britain's.
Adam Posen grew up the son of scientists in Brookline, Mass., an upper-middle-class suburb of Boston. ''I was a weak kid,'' he says. ''Classic nerd. Captain of the math team.'' Around the time of his bar mitzvah, he told his parents that his dream was to one day work with a policy group dealing with international affairs. By 18, he was a devoted fan of John Maynard Keynes.
After graduating near the top of his class at Harvard, Posen returned to Cambridge to pursue his Ph.D. in political economy. Around this time, he became fixated on central banks in general, and dismantling the self-congratulatory ways in which they perceived their role in particular. Since its development in the 19th century, the modern central bank has been designated to serve as an independent, responsible counterweight to the excesses of the political system. Because politicians tend to think only as far ahead as the next election, central bankers are supposed to protect the long-term value of a nation's currency and, therefore, the stability of its economy. The modern-day hero of central banking is Paul Volcker who, as the chairman of the Federal Reserve, fearlessly raised interest rates high enough to stop inflation even if that meant hurtling the United States into a recession and arguably costing the man who appointed him, President Jimmy Carter, his job.
In his Ph.D. dissertation, Posen argued that central bankers do not always behave like Paul Volcker. By comparing the ways that central banks behave in different economies, like those of Sweden and Italy, Posen argued that they are, too often, thoroughly enmeshed in the short-term thinking of politics. So much so, in fact, that the decisions central banks make -- especially the crucial ones about the supply of money and the availability of credit -- are often better understood as interest-group politics in which powerful lobbies battle for control. His research was persuasive, and Posen quickly established himself as a central-bank researcher to watch.
By 1997, Posen was a young economist when an acquaintance at the U.S. Embassy in Tokyo invited him to a conference. Posen had never had any particular interest in or knowledge about the Japanese economy, but he was happy to take a junket and spend a few days in the country that, not long before, was growing significantly and taking over every industry -- automobiles, electronics, steel -- that it entered.
By the time Posen arrived for the conference, though, Japan had been in a recession for several years. The prevailing wisdom among many of the country's economists and political figures was that Japan simply grew too much, too fast, and that as long as the central bank and finance ministry protected the core institutions -- like its banks -- the country would soon grow again. There was also a general view that Japan's economy -- with its rapid growth and unique system of cooperation among large corporations and the government -- was thoroughly unlike any other. It didn't need counsel from outsiders.
In the month before the conference, Posen read up on data pertaining to national G.D.P., employment and banking-sector activity. G.D.P. growth had slowed. Unemployment was rising. Banks were not lending freely. Posen quickly recognized that the data looked remarkably familiar. ''I had this aha moment,'' he told me. Japan was not going through a unique and inevitable economic slowdown, Posen realized. The country was experiencing something that looked a lot like the Great Depression. And neither the government nor the central bank realized it. Like the governments and central banks of the United States and Britain 60 years earlier, Japanese bankers and policy makers were doing everything wrong to turn the economy around. He began writing a series of recommendations.
Posen diagnosed the problem as a large output gap. The economy, he argued, was fundamentally capable of producing far more goods and services, employing more people and making more money. Bridging that gap between the depressed economy and its potential required that the central bank create a lot more money and get it out into the economy. At the same time, he wrote, the government needed to spend far more, too. To accomplish both of these goals, the Bank of Japan and the government had to stop rescuing the country's sickest banks, which continued to lend to the oldest and least productive businesses.
Many of the particular issues that Posen raised had been mentioned before, but at that 1997 conference he was the first to put them all together in a coherent alternative narrative. The speech was well received, and by the time Posen returned to the United States, he had decided to focus all of his attention on the issue. Within a year, ''Restoring Japan's Economic Growth,'' the monograph that fleshed out his argument more thoroughly, became a key guide to Japanese economic and financial policy. Other prominent economists -- notably Paul Krugman and Ben Bernanke -- wrote parallel analyses that supported and furthered its central insights. In 2002, Japan implemented many of these recommendations. Soon its Lost Decade of minimal growth ended, and the country's economy came back. At least until the global bubble burst in 2007.
Posen spent much of the aughts ensconced at the Peterson Institute for International Economics, a prominent Washington policy group, advising central banks and finance ministries around the world. Posen, who developed special expertise in the German economy and the euro, enjoyed the work. (He was among a small group of economists who, long ago, were skeptical about the euro.) But in 2009, when the British government asked Posen to become a voting member of the Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee, he leapt at the opportunity. It set up something of a replay of Posen's arguments in Japan. This time, however, he would be coming at a crisis from within a central bank.
What Posen didn't expect was that the job would also reinforce his darkest fears about the role of central banks. Leaked cables on WikiLeaks later revealed that during Posen's first few months in London, Mervyn King, the Bank of England's governor, was already pressuring Cameron to follow through on austerity policies. In May 2010, the bank issued a report affirming the economic necessity of austerity. In a November 2010 parliamentary hearing, Posen accused King of partisanship. The report, he said, had compromised the impartiality of the bank and was ''excessively political in the context of the election.'' (King declined my request for an interview.)
But it was too late. After Cameron's 2010 election, the chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, had already laid out a budget that called for several years of cuts. If they were not implemented, he warned, Britain would experience ''higher interest rates, more business failures, sharper rises in unemployment and potentially even a catastrophic loss of confidence and the end of the recovery. We cannot let that happen.''
Every two months or so, each member of the Monetary Policy Committee is encouraged to give a speech outside London. It's part of an effort to erase the Bank of England's reputation for seeming uninterested in the concerns of average citizens, or at least those who live far away from the city's bankers and financiers. And so on the afternoon of Posen's final speech as an M.P.C. member, it was hard to miss the paradox. He was in a small town on the southeast coast of England delivering an argument directed at a handful of decision makers in the capital.
It was a rainy day in Chatham, the grim place where Charles Dickens spent much of his childhood and where the kitschy indoor amusement park, Dickens World, is now the main attraction. (The park features a flume ride through an ersatz centuries-old London, replete with the actual smell of rotting cabbage.) Posen spoke down the road, at the Universities at Medway, a consortium of local schools open to students ''without traditional qualifications.'' The audience was made up of a few dozen pensioners, some students, local businesspeople and three wire-service reporters who would pass on whatever Posen had to say to the insiders back in the city. ''I'm one of their beats,'' he said. ''Once I leave the job, who knows if anybody is going to show up to any of my speeches.''
Posen gave the speech, which ran over an hour, with only minimal notes. Much as he did in the bank's monthly committee meetings, he projected economic data on a screen and explained the narrative that he thought best accounted for what was happening in the British economy. He quickly focused on the core economic riddle -- the data showing that worker productivity has fallen while the unemployment rate has stayed the same. It seemed impossible, he said. How do more people make less? ''If you're a worker, you didn't wake up one day in October 2008 and find your left arm missing,'' Posen told the crowd. ''You didn't find yourself lobotomized and forget how to run whatever machine or do whatever it is you do. In November 2008, a business owner did not wake up one day and find that their factory had been bombed in the blitz like their grandparents had. It's all still there.''
Then Posen's defense became more technical. He said the problem wasn't a sudden collapse in the capacity of workers and factories. The problem, more simply, was that there wasn't enough demand to support full production. The private sector, in other words, was no longer able or willing to spend enough money for the economy to function at its peak levels. If the government or Bank of England could do more to stimulate the economy through any number of tools at their disposal -- like more quantitative easing and infrastructure spending -- demand would rise, and everyone's productivity would shoot back to normal.
It was a subtly (but crucially) different way of looking at the problem: the country was not truly less capable. The problem was not one of supply, Posen suggested, but rather of demand. Workers were not less productive than they used to be. They merely needed some help from the government and the central bank -- rather than budget cuts -- to close the output gap.
To those who follow the economic debates in the Bank of England and Parliament, Posen's speech was a barely concealed attack on Cameron's policies. In Chatham, though, the crowd didn't seem to understand that the polite American enthusiastically pointing to graphs on a projector was declaring that their prime minister was a financial philistine. Posen followed central-bank custom and declined to mention Cameron by name or explicitly critique the government's policy. (His sharpest and most overt statement -- ''When your government is cutting its budget deficit, it tends to drag down consumption'' -- wouldn't exactly start a bar fight.) Months later, Posen told me that his tenure in England was often enormously frustrating. Next month he begins a new job as the president of the Peterson Institute. He thinks that he can do more to revise the economic narrative from Washington than he ever could from within the Bank of England.
The economics profession advances by one confusing financial disaster at a time. A series of 19th-century banking crises in England and the United States inspired policy makers to create the modern central bank. Then came the Great Depression, a period of economic misery that existing ideas could not explain. John Maynard Keynes and the far more libertarian Friedrich Hayek spent the 1930s trying to make sense of the inexplicable economic data. In the process, they developed the two schools of thought that still dominate economic arguments. The Keynesians overwhelmed public discussion in the United States and Britain until the 1970s, when Hayek, along with Milton Friedman and his Chicago school, became more popular.
By the 1990s, the debates between these two radically different theories seemed to have abated. Economists seemed to have accepted a consensus view of the world, one in which the profession would provide technocratic, nonideological solutions. It seemed like the fulfillment of Keynes's dream that one day economists would be like dentists: boring practitioners of an uncontroversial and undeniably helpful science.
Then the financial crisis ripped this consensus apart. When Cameron's government began its austerity program, many of the world's leading policy makers were behind him. That September, the International Monetary Fund formally endorsed his spending cuts, stating that ''the plan greatly reduces the risk of a costly loss of confidence in public finances and supports a balanced recovery.'' The British Office of Budget Responsibility also signaled that Cameron's austerity approach would bring economic growth and reduce unemployment. In the 2010 midterm elections, U.S. voters flooded Congress with Tea Party-friendly candidates. Many carried the mandate to halt further government stimulus.
Since then, though, an increasing number of global economic policy leaders have turned on austerity. Earlier this year, in a remarkable joint statement, the I.M.F., along with the World Bank, World Trade Organization and eight other major economic institutions, warned that austerity was hurting global growth and raising unemployment. They asked the world's major economies to embrace stimulus. Over the past few months, the I.M.F. and its deputy director, David Lipton, also have issued several suggestions that the British government soften its austerity program. Mervyn King hasn't entirely disowned his earlier pro-austerity views, but he is no longer the policy's enthusiastic booster. Toward the end of 2011, Posen finally persuaded the M.P.C., in a unanimous vote, to increase its bond-buying program by 75 billion pounds (about $120 billion at the time). Even King supported him.
Cameron and his chief financial-policy minister, Osborne, say they have only deepened their commitment to austerity. Osborne recently announced that while he had hoped austerity could end by 2015, it now looks as if the policy will continue until at least 2018. That is, if the Tories are in power. Recent opinion polls show that after years in a dead heat, the Labour Party now has a solid lead in popularity, though elections are more than two years away.
As long as it continues, this experiment offers some crucial lessons for the United States. So far, austerity has not significantly improved economic health. The plan to shrink the size of government did not generate a sudden surge of private-sector confidence and investment. For all its differences, Britain is similar enough to the United States to suggest that severely cutting government spending in America wouldn't be enough to quickly speed up our own frustratingly slow recovery either. Advocates for greater stimulus in the United States frequently point to Britain's dismal experience as proof that unemployment will fall and economic activity will rise if the government spends considerably more money. But demonstrating that austerity has failed does not prove that stimulus fixes everything. After a few years of growth, Japan's economy has found itself back in a period of stagnation.
Adam Posen says that the challenge of economic policy at a time when the economic data are so unlike anything that has come before is that no one can be sure what will work. But he says that's no reason for inaction. Our options, he argues, can be divided into three general categories: austerity, stimulus and doing nothing. He, like an increasing number of mainstream economists, believes we can now scratch austerity off the list. Doing neither stimulus nor austerity -- which is basically what's happening in the United States -- isn't working, either. So, he says, let's try stimulus, even if we don't know for sure it'll do the job. Now he wants to persuade America that it's the best shot it's got.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Adam Posen at the Bank of England in August. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUIR VIDLER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM21)
 David Cameron campaigned on austerity in 2009. (PHOTOGRAPH BY PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT CARDY/GETTY IMAGES) (MM22) DRAWING (DRAWING BY TADAOMI SHIBUYA) (MM18-MM19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BRITISH POUND (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CURRENCIES (76%); BUDGETS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); MONETARY POLICY (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (71%); LAYOFFS (70%); VOTERS & VOTING (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); CASE STUDIES (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: DAVID CAMERON (89%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



819 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 23, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: N.R.A. Leaders Stand Firm Against Gun Restrictions

BYLINE: ERIC LICHTBLAU


HIGHLIGHT: Leaders of the National Rifle Association said in television appearances that they would fight any new gun restrictions introduced in Congress. They also made clear that they were not interested in working with President Obama to help develop a broad response to the Connecticut school massacre. 

 BODY:
Leaders of the National Rifle Association said Sunday that they would fight any new gun restrictions introduced in Congress, and they made clear that they were not interested in working with President Obama to help develop a broad response to the Connecticut school massacre.
During an appearance on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Wayne LaPierre, the vice president of the powerful gun lobby, was openly dismissive of a task force established by Mr. Obama and led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. that is examining ways to reduce gun violence. 
"If it's a panel that's just going to be made up of a bunch of people that, for the last 20 years, have been trying to destroy the Second Amendment, I'm not interested in sitting on that panel," Mr. LaPierre said, adding that the "N.R.A. is not going to let people lose the Second Amendment in this country, which is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people."
At a widely watched news briefing on Friday, Mr. LaPierre said the N.R.A.'s solution to prevent mass shootings like those that have occurred in the last few years -- several of them on school campuses - was to put armed guards in schools nationwide. During the briefing, he and the gun group's president, David Keene, did not directly address plans proposed in the last week that would ban assault rifles or otherwise restrict the availability of firearms.
But during a round of appearances on the Sunday talk shows by Mr. LaPierre, Mr. Keene and Asa Hutchinson, a former Republican congressman from Arkansas who will lead the gun group's response to the shooting in Newtown, Conn., they made it clear that the N.R.A. opposed any of the gun restrictions now under discussion and did not believe they should be part of the discussion.
On the question of whether a limit on high-capacity ammunition would reduce the likelihood of mass shootings like the one in Connecticut, Mr. LaPierre said in a testy exchange with David Gregory, the host of "Meet the Press," that "I don't think it will."
"I keep saying it, and you just won't accept it - it's not going to work. It hasn't worked," Mr. LaPierre said.
As for the idea of reinstating a ban on so-called assault rifles, which was in place from 1994 to 2004, he said, "I think that is a phony piece of legislation, and I do not believe it will pass for this reason: It's all built on lies that have been found out."
While the N.R.A. has been criticized sharply by gun-control advocates since it broke its silence about the Connecticut shooting on Friday, it did receive some support from Senator Lindsay Graham, the influential South Carolina Republican who also appeared Sunday on "Meet the Press."
"People where I live, I've been Christmas shopping all weekend, have come up to me: 'Please don't let the government take my guns away,' " Mr. Graham said. "And I'm going to stand against another assault ban because it didn't work before, and it won't work in the future.''
On the other big issue in Washington at the moment - negotiations over a deficit-reduction deal to avert tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect after the new year - Republicans and Democrats expressed pessimism about reaching a deal in time, and they spent much of the morning blaming each other for the gridlock.
"I believe the president is eager to go over the cliff for political purposes," Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, said on "Fox News Sunday." "He senses a victory at the bottom of the cliff. I think it hurts our country and hurts our economy."
But Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Republicans were the ones playing politics with the fiscal talks and taking the risk of putting the country over the so-called "fiscal cliff."
"If we go over it, God forbid, and I still don't think we have to, the American people are going to blame the Republican Party," Mr. Schumer said on "Meet the Press."
Lawmakers were not much more optimistic when asked about the prospects of the Senate confirming Chuck Hagel, the former Republican senator from Nebraska, who is considered a top candidate to to succeed Leon E. Panetta as defense secretary.
Mr. Hagel has drawn criticism in recent days for his record on Israel and gays. "The Republicans are going to ask him hard questions, and I don't think he's going to get many Republican votes," Mr. Graham predicted.

        
Obama Asks Supporters to Push Congress on Gun Control
        
After Shootings, a Flood of Ideas and Proposals for Curbing Gun Violence
        
Poll Conducted After Shooting Shows More Support for Stricter Gun Laws
        
Democratic Lawmakers Urge Obama to Veto Gun Measure
        
House Democrats Call on Boehner to Take Up Gun-Control Issue

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (94%); FIREARMS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (90%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (90%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPUS SECURITY (70%) Hutchinson, Asa; Keene, David A; LaPierre, Wayne; Gun Control; Newtown, Conn, Shooting (2012); School Shootings; Second Amendment (US Constitution); National Rifle Assn; Connecticut; The Caucus

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (94%) National Rifle Assn

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%) Hutchinson, Asa; Keene, David A; LaPierre, Wayne

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2012



820 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Russell Libby, 56, Advocate For Nation's Organic Farmers

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Russell Libby, one of the nation's leading advocates for organic farming, died on Sunday at his farm in Mount Vernon, Me. He was 56.
The cause was cancer, his wife, Mary Anne, said.
What began with his fourth-grade teacher handing out packets of vegetable seeds to her students in Sorrento, Me., nearly five decades ago, evolved into a lifelong passion for Mr. Libby and a deep concern about industrial farming and its use of chemical fertilizers and pesticides.
''We have to challenge the idea that contamination is just the price of living in the modern world,'' was a refrain in his many speeches. 
For 17 years, until he stepped down last month, Mr. Libby was executive director of the Maine Organic Farmers and Gardeners Association, which he had built into one of the largest of the organic movement's state organizations.
Since Mr. Libby was named director in 1995, membership doubled, to more than 7,000, and the number of organic farmers and producers in the state increased to 420, from 85.
Under Mr. Libby, the organization moved from a single office in Augusta, Me., to a 400-acre complex of offices, exhibition halls, a library, a teaching kitchen and farmland in the town of Unity. The association distributes educational material throughout the country, places apprentices on farms in Maine and provides advice to local farmers on financing, marketing and food safety, as well as agricultural techniques.
Mr. Libby also held sway with public officials, playing a central role in lobbying Congress to amend the Food Safety Modernization Act of 2011 to protect organic farmers. The act vastly broadened the power of the Food and Drug Administration to regulate food production.
''The original legislation would have made it extremely difficult for small farmers to comply with the requirements,'' said Fred Kirschenmann, a fellow at the Leopold Center for Sustainable Agriculture at Iowa State University, adding that some requirements ''really had nothing to do with the safety of food.''
In a statement, Kathleen A. Merrigan, the deputy secretary of the Department of Agriculture, called Mr. Libby ''a powerful voice for and leader of small family farmers.''
Russell Wayne Libby did not grow up on a farm; he planted those seeds from his teacher in the backyard. Born on Aug. 16, 1956, in Lincoln, Me. (the family later moved to Sorrento), he was the oldest of four children of Ronald and Sandra Libby. His father was a detective with the state police.
After graduating from Bowdoin College in 1978, Mr. Libby went on to earn a master's degree in agricultural economics from the University of Maine. He became a researcher for the National Center for Economic Alternatives, a small nonprofit organization, and later for the Maine Department of Agriculture.
Besides his wife and parents, Mr. Libby is survived by three daughters, Anna, Margaret and Rosa; a brother, Chris; and two sisters, Pamela Fowley and Ronda Nichols. Beyond organic farming's environmental and health benefits, Mr. Libby saw its value to local economies. In many speeches, he espoused a ''Ten Dollars a Week'' concept: the idea that communities could thrive if every household spent that amount on locally produced food, rather than buying from supermarket chains.
On his 65-acre Three Sisters Farm in Mount Vernon, he and his daughters tended to the apple, pear and cherry trees, and to sheep, hens and a pony. They sold eggs to people around town.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Russell Libby led a farmers' group in Maine for 17 years. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STACEY CRAMP FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); AGRICULTURE (90%); ORGANIC FOODS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FOOD SAFETY (89%); PRODUCT SAFETY (86%); SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL CHEMICALS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); FERTILIZERS (78%); PESTICIDES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CANCER (77%); CHILDREN (77%); LOBBYING (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (72%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (72%); FACTORY FARMS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); LEGISLATION (69%); POLICE FORCES (64%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (58%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (79%) MAINE, USA (94%); IOWA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



821 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 856 words

HEADLINE: Stabilization Won't Save Us

BYLINE: By NASSIM NICHOLAS TALEB. 
Nassim Nicholas Taleb, a former derivatives trader, is a professor at the Polytechnic Institute of New York University and the author, most recently, of ''Antifragile: Things That Gain From Disorder.''

 BODY:
THE fiscal cliff is not really a ''cliff''; the entire country won't fall into the ocean if we hit it. Some automatic tax cuts will expire; the government will be forced to cut some expenditures. The cliff is really just a red herring.
Likewise, any last-minute deal to avoid the spending cuts and tax increases scheduled to go into effect on Jan. 1 isn't likely to save us from economic turmoil. It would merely let us continue the policy mistakes we've been making for years, allowing us only to temporarily stabilize the economy rather than address its deep, systemic failures. 
Stabilization, of course, has long been the economic playbook of the United States government; it has kept interest rates low, shored up banks, purchased bad debts and printed money. But the effect is akin to treating metastatic cancer with painkillers. It has not only let deeper problems fester, but also aggravated inequality. Bankers have continued to get rich using taxpayer dollars as both fuel and backstop. And printing money tends to disproportionately benefit a certain class. The rise in asset prices made the superrich even richer, while the median family income has dropped.
Overstabilization also corrects problems that ought not to be corrected and renders the economy more fragile; and in a fragile economy, even small errors can lead to crises and plunge the entire system into chaos. That's what happened in 2008. More than four years after that financial crisis began, nothing has been done to address its root causes.
Our goal instead should be an antifragile system -- one in which mistakes don't ricochet throughout the economy, but can instead be used to fuel growth. The key elements to such a system are decentralization of decision making and ensuring that all economic and political actors have some ''skin in the game.''
Two of the biggest policy mistakes of the past decade resulted from centralized decision making. First, the Iraq war, in addition to its tragic outcomes, cost between 40 and 100 times the original estimates. The second was the 2008 crisis, which I believe resulted from an all-too-powerful Federal Reserve providing cheap money to stifle economic volatility; this, in turn, led to the accumulation of hidden risks in the economic system, which cascaded into a major blowup.
Just as we didn't forecast these two mistakes and their impact, we'll miss the next ones unless we confront our error-prone system. Fortunately, the solution can be bipartisan, pleasing both those who decry a large federal government and those who distrust the market.
First, in a decentralized system, errors are by nature smaller. Switzerland is one of the world's wealthiest and most stable countries. It is also highly decentralized -- with 26 cantons that are self-governing and make most of their own budgetary decisions. The absence of a central monopoly on taxation makes them compete for tax and bureaucratic efficiency. And if the Jura canton goes bankrupt, it will not destabilize the entire Swiss economy.
In decentralized systems, problems can be solved early and when they are small; stakeholders are also generally more willing to pay to solve local challenges (like fixing a bridge), which often affect them in a direct way. And when there are terrible failures in economic management -- a bankrupt county, a state ill-prepared for its pension obligations -- these do not necessarily bring the national economy to its knees. In fact, states and municipalities will learn from the mistakes of others, ultimately making the economy stronger.
It's a myth that centralization and size bring ''efficiency.'' Centralized states are deficit-prone precisely because they tend to be gamed by lobbyists and large corporations, which increase their size in order to get the protection of bailouts. No large company should ever be bailed out; it creates a moral hazard.
Consider the difference between Silicon Valley entrepreneurs, who are taught to ''fail early and often,'' and large corporations that leech off governments and demand bailouts when they're in trouble on the pretext that they are too big to fail. Entrepreneurs don't ask for bailouts, and their failures do not destabilize the economy as a whole.
Second, there must be skin in the game across the board, so that nobody can inflict harm on others without first harming himself. Bankers got rich -- and are still rich -- from transferring risk to taxpayers (and we still haven't seen clawbacks of executive pay at companies that were bailed out). Likewise, Washington bureaucrats haven't been exposed to punishment for their errors, whereas officials at the municipal level often have to face the wrath of voters (and neighbors) who are affected by their mistakes.
If we want our economy not to be merely resilient, but to flourish, we must strive for antifragility. It is the difference between something that breaks severely after a policy error, and something that thrives from such mistakes. Since we cannot stop making mistakes and prediction errors, let us make sure their impact is limited and localized, and can in the long term help ensure our prosperity and growth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); IRAQ WAR (64%); INTEREST RATES (54%); CANCER (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



822 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 91 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
Data to be released this week includes the Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller housing price index (Wednesday); weekly jobless claims, new home sales for November and consumer confidence for December (Thursday); and the Chicago purchasing managers index for December and pending home sales for November (Friday).
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the New York Stock Exchange closes at 1 p.m. and United States bond markets close at 2 p.m. On Tuesday, financial markets, government offices and most businesses will be closed in observance of Christmas Day. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); NEW HOME SALES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); BONDS (88%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (88%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (87%); CHRISTMAS (87%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (86%); STOCK EXCHANGES (83%); BOND MARKETS (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (83%)

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



823 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE MEDIA EQUATION; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: A TV Voice Rang True In Clamor Of Shooting

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR. 
E-mail: carr@nytimes.com; Twitter: @carr2n

 BODY:
On the day of the school shooting in Newtown, Conn., reporters were struggling and failing to get their arms around a story too horrible to fathom. At our house, we stared at the incremental television coverage and came to realize that no one really knew anything.
Then, late in the evening, a reporter came on CBS in New York. He knew the number of casualties, the type of weapon used, and that the mother of the shooter was dead inside her home.
''Who is this guy?'' I asked my wife.
John Miller isn't a psychic or a genius. He's a senior correspondent for CBS News who had spent the afternoon working his sources while helping anchor the network's special coverage. Mr. Miller, hired a little over a year ago by CBS, became a constant figure in the coverage in the days that followed, bringing a rare level of seriousness to a story that seemed to bring out the worst in television news. 
Low rated and often an also-ran, CBS News benefited greatly from Mr. Miller's work, which helped it become the first network to break into programming with news of the shooting and the first to report the level of carnage.
Like many of his colleagues, he made some mistakes -- ''I was first with the wrong name'' he pointed out ruefully -- but everything he said on the air was based on actual reporting, not meaningless stand-ups at the scene that are full of drama but no information.
If Mr. Miller, 54, seemed to know what happened inside Sandy Hook Elementary School as soon as the police officials did, that's because not that long ago, he was one of them.
A police reporter in New York for 20 years for various television stations, he was hired by William Bratton, New York's police commissioner, in 1994 as a deputy commissioner. He went back to reporting at ABC in 1995 and became co-anchor of ''20/20,'' where he interviewed Osama bin Laden. He wrote a book on the Sept. 11 attacks and then went back to work for Mr. Bratton in 2003, this time in Los Angeles as head of the counterterrorism and criminal intelligence bureau, along with the major crimes division.
Mr. Miller went on to the F.B.I. and the office of the director of national intelligence, where he worked as deputy director of the analysis division. But he found himself thinking about a return to reporting after Bin Laden was killed.
''My wife said to me, 'Let me get this straight, you are going to leave a good, safe job in government and wander around New York in the worst economy in years looking for a job as a reporter? That's your plan?' '' he said.
It was. He talked to Jeff Fager, chairman of CBS News and executive producer of ''60 Minutes.''
''He is the definition of a pure reporter,'' Mr. Fager said, ''a really great fit with what we are trying to do here. On the big stories, we don't want packages, we don't do graphics, we want information. I could listen to John Miller report a story all day.''
Journalists are taught to be suspect of those who have gone through the revolving door, but Mr. Miller's trip through that door left him uniquely suited for the Newtown story. He had run major investigations, supervised big crime scenes and handled the information flow for others.
''The information is coming in raw and in real time,'' he explained in a phone call. ''Forgive my grammar, but you have to filter into three questions: 'What do we know, what do we don't know, and when do we expect to know more?' Everything is preliminary, everything can change, but you can't just wait. You have to think through what you know and explain that.''
Mr. Miller said that when he was called to the anchor desk on Friday morning he protested, saying he should just report at his desk. But he ended up on the set with a laptop and a phone, working both when he wasn't on the air.
''When I first heard a number for victims, I thought it was wrong because it was so high,'' said Mr. Miller, who worked on the 1999 Columbine shooting while at ABC. ''And then word came from people I knew that we should prepare ourselves for the worst.''
''These people aren't my sources, they are my friends,'' he said. ''If they couldn't tell me, they told me who could.''
Mr. Miller said he benefited enormously because he understood law enforcement hierarchy and was aware of the kinds of pressure brought to bear on the officials at the scene.
''There is no one in law enforcement who won't take John's call,'' Mr. Bratton said. ''He's careful and he knows his way around all aspects of law enforcement, which makes it easy to trust him and talk to him.''
There is another factor that explains Mr. Miller's success. He is a newsie by birth. His father, John J. Miller, was a syndicated gossip columnist for a variety of New York newspapers, and he often brought his son along on stories.
''I've been going to crime scenes since I was 9 years old,'' Mr. Miller said. ''It would not be unusual for me to see Sammy Davis Jr. at the Copacabana on Friday night and then be at the scene of a murder in Washington Square on Saturday night.''
Mr. Miller's credentials are further burnished by the fact that the Mafia boss Frank Costello was his godfather.
By the time he was 14 he was getting his own assignments at Channel 5 News. He would skip gym at Montclair High in New Jersey and hop a bus to the station's headquarters in New York. While reporters were busy finishing editing, he would be sent out on late-breaking stories to do interviews. He covered collapsed buildings, murders and perp walks, and had his own N.Y.P.D. press pass saying ''John Miller is entitled to cross police and fire lines wherever formed.''
''It was like a golden ticket to the night,'' he said.
Since he got back in the racket, Mr. Miller has been a frequent face on ''CBS This Morning,'' often talking about crime, national security and terrorism with Charlie Rose.
''He is wired in a way that few reporters are and has a manner that puts people at ease,'' Mr. Rose said. ''John knows where the story is and how to go to it.''
Mr. Miller says that it's not always whispered backgrounders from police pals that offer insight.
''Sometimes I just go quiet and watch the live feed,'' he said. ''Because I have been in the command post, I know what I am looking at.''
Still, when a major crime occurs, it creates a bit of conflict.
''When something big is going on and I am covering it,'' he said, ''I always really wish I was on the other side of the yellow tape, right in the middle of it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: John Miller, a senior correspondent for CBS News, has also worked for the New York Police Department and the F.B.I. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BRIAN HARKIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (89%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (89%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (89%); TERRORISM (87%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (78%); OSAMA BIN LADEN'S DEATH (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); AL-QAEDA (65%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (65%); COUNTERTERRORISM (65%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (60%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (59%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



824 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1250 words

HEADLINE: Gun Industry Uses Leverage In Connecticut

BYLINE: By RAY RIVERA and ALISON LEIGH COWAN; Michael Moss and Griff Palmer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gun owners packed a hearing room in the Connecticut capital, vowing to oppose a bill that would require new markers on guns so that they are easier to trace.
One after another, they testified that the technology, called microstamping, was flawed and would increase the cost of guns.
But the witness who commanded the most attention in Hartford that day in 2009 was a representative of one of Connecticut's major employers: the Colt Manufacturing Company, the gun maker.
The Colt executive, Carlton S. Chen, said the company would seriously consider leaving the state if the bill became law. ''You would think that the Connecticut government would be in support of our industry,'' Mr. Chen said.
Soon, Connecticut lawmakers shelved the bill; they have declined to take it up since. Now, in the aftermath of the school massacre in Newtown, the lawmakers are formulating new gun-control measures, saying the state must serve as a national model. 
But the failed effort to enact the microstamping measure shows how difficult the climate has been for gun control in state capitals. The firearm companies have played an important role in defeating these measures by repeatedly warning that they will close factories and move jobs if new state regulations are approved.
The companies have issued such threats in several states, especially in the Northeast, where gun control is more popular. But their views have particular resonance in Connecticut, a cradle of the American gun industry.
Like manufacturing in Connecticut over all, the state's gun industry is not as robust as it once was. Still, Connecticut remains the seventh-largest producer of firearms in the country, according to federal data.
Colt, based in Connecticut since the 1800s, employs roughly 900 people in the state. Two other major gun companies, Sturm, Ruger & Company and Mossberg & Sons, are also based in the state. In all, the industry employs about 2,000 people in Connecticut, company officials said.
Gun-control advocates have long viewed Hartford, the capital, as hospitable terrain, because Connecticut is a relatively liberal state and already has more gun restrictions than most. Democrats control both houses of the legislature.
Yet lawmakers in Hartford did more than shelve the microstamping bill in 2009. They also declined to push a bill last year that would have banned high-capacity ammunition magazines -- the very accessory used by Adam Lanza to kill 26 people, including 20 children, at Sandy Hook Elementary School in Newtown.
In several states, the gun companies have enlisted unions that represent gun workers, mindful that Democratic lawmakers who might otherwise back gun control also have close ties to labor.
In Connecticut, the United Automobile Workers, which represents Colt workers, has testified against restrictions. The union's arguments were bolstered last year when Marlin Firearms, a leading manufacturer of rifles, closed a factory in Connecticut that employed more than 200 people. Marlin cited economic pressures, not gun regulation, for the decision, but representatives of the gun industry have said the combination of the two factors could spur others to move.
State law significantly restricts the ability of corporations to make political donations in Connecticut. Employees of Connecticut gun companies have contributed several thousand dollars in total in recent years to state candidates, mostly Republicans, according to an analysis of state records.
Financially, the gun companies and their employees in Connecticut have exerted influence by donating to national groups, especially the National Rifle Association, which have in turn helped Connecticut gun rights groups, according to interviews and financial records.
But it appears that in Hartford, the companies are relying largely on economic arguments.
Their strategy has been led by the industry's trade group, the National Shooting Sports Foundation, which happens to have its national headquarters in Newtown, a few miles from the site of the shootings.
When Connecticut lawmakers held a hearing in 2011 on the measure to ban high-capacity ammunition magazines, the director of government regulations for the foundation, Jake McGuigan, opened his testimony with some statistics.
Mr. McGuigan told lawmakers that the state's gun companies contributed $1.3 billion to the Connecticut economy, through their own operations and those of their suppliers.
''Each year, they get courted by other firearm-friendly states, like Idaho, Virginia, North Carolina,'' Mr. McGuigan said. He later added, ''It's not an idle threat.''
The federation and Colt have declined to comment on gun-control legislation since the school killings.
''Our hearts go out to our fellow Connecticut residents who have suffered such unimaginable loss,'' Colt said in a statement. ''We do not believe it is appropriate to make further public statements at this very emotional time.''
Gun-control advocates in Hartford said the gun companies' strategy was shrewd because it allowed Democratic lawmakers to oppose new regulations while proclaiming that they had not bowed to the National Rifle Association.
''There are people who want to vote right, but are worried about jobs,'' said Betty Gallo, a lobbyist for Connecticut Against Gun Violence, an advocacy group. ''And there are people who don't want to vote right and use it as an excuse so they don't have to say, 'I'm scared of the N.R.A.' ''
Some lawmakers in Hartford suggested that after the school killings, gun companies would be unable to gain as much traction with an argument about jobs.
''I don't think it should be a difficult choice at all,'' said one of the leaders of the State Senate, Donald E. Williams Jr., a Democrat who represents several towns in eastern Connecticut. ''There's no reason that we can't help companies thrive in ways that do not threaten our children, our schools, movie theaters, the things we take for granted in terms of safety and security in our communities.''
Still, the gun companies have allied themselves with Connecticut advocacy groups representing hunters and other gun owners, which have become increasingly assertive in Hartford.
The groups have in recent years sought to defeat gun regulations by evoking notorious crimes like the 2007 murders of Jennifer Hawke-Petit and her two daughters in Cheshire, Conn. They were killed by two career criminals in a home invasion.
The gun owners said the Petit case demonstrated that people needed powerful weapons and high-capacity ammunition magazines to protect themselves and their families against crime in their homes.
State Representative Pamela Z. Sawyer, a Republican who is an ally of gun-rights groups, acknowledged that public pressure arising from the Newtown killings would make it more difficult for gun companies and gun-rights groups to maintain influence in Hartford.
But she said the proper place for the debate was in Washington, not at the state level, signaling a strategy that Connecticut gun-rights groups may now deploy more aggressively.
Ms. Sawyer said her constituents cared deeply about gun rights, and noted that she had four gun clubs within a few miles of her hometown, Bolton, which is east of Hartford. She comes from a family of hunters and owns a rifle and handgun.
She emphasized that traditions embodied by companies like Colt inevitably colored debates over gun control in Connecticut.
The state ''has a long, long history in manufacturing weapons, and so for many people, there's a pride in that,'' Ms. Sawyer said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Men with gun cases outside a pistol range in New Milford, Conn., about 20 miles from Newtown. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA LOTT/REUTERS) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREARMS (95%); SMALL ARMS MFG (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); GUN CONTROL (90%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (89%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (74%); LIBERALISM (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (73%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%)

COMPANY: STURM RUGER & CO INC (65%)

TICKER: RGR (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332994 SMALL ARMS, ORDNANCE & ORDNANCE ACCESSORIES MANUFACTURING (65%); NAICS331512 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (65%); SIC3484 SMALL ARMS (65%); SIC3324 STEEL INVESTMENT FOUNDRIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (95%) CONNECTICUT, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



825 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 695 words

HEADLINE: North Korean Missile Said To Have Military Purpose

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- South Korean technicians scrutinizing the debris of the North Korean rocket launched this month have found evidence suggesting the rocket's military purposes and the North's technological ties with Iran in its efforts to develop an intercontinental ballistic missile, South Korean officials said Sunday.
North Korea insists that its Unha-3 rocket, launched Dec. 12 to put an earth-observation satellite in orbit, was part of its peaceful space program. But intelligence officials and rocket scientists affiliated with the South Korean Defense Ministry said Sunday that through the rocket launching, North Korea was testing a ballistic missile that could fly more than 6,200 miles, with a warhead of about 1,100 to 1,300 pounds, putting the West Coast of the United States in range. 
They spoke to the news media after analyzing the rocket's flight data and the debris of its oxidizer tank, which was recovered in waters off South Korea two days after the rocket launching.
Over the weekend, the South Korean Navy also salvaged the remnants of the rocket's fuel tank and part of its engine, which the officials hoped would provide more clues to the North's rocket technology.
The officials said they had concluded that the rocket's first-stage engine was made of four North Korean Rodong missile engines latched together, and that the North Koreans used their Scud-type missile engine for the rocket's second-stage booster.
''They efficiently developed a three-stage long-range missile by using their existing Rodong and Scud missile technology,'' a senior military intelligence official said Sunday, briefing reporters on the condition of anonymity.
For an oxidizer, North Korea used red fuming nitric acid, commonly used as rocket propellant in old Soviet-built Scud missiles, as well as in Iranian and North Korean missiles, the official said. Most space-program rockets use liquid oxygen as an oxidizer, he said. Unlike liquid oxygen, which must be kept extremely cold, red fuming nitric acid can be stored at room temperature, which makes it a convenient propellant for missiles, the official said.
The design of the oxidizer tank also suggested an ''Iran connection'' in North Korea's rocket program, he said.
Officials found the welding on the oxidizer tank to be ''crude,'' ''uneven'' and ''done by hand.'' They also found some foreign-made components, despite North Korea's claim that its rocket was ''indigenously produced 100 percent.'' But they said it signaled a great technological advance for North Korea to launch a three-stage rocket successfully and put an object into orbit. All of North Korea's previous rocket tests had failed to reach orbit, according to Western officials.
Analysts doubted that North Korea had mastered the technology needed to make a nuclear bomb small enough to mount on a missile. South Korean officials also said Sunday that there was no confirmation of whether the North had the ''re-entry'' technology needed for the warhead of an intercontinental ballistic missile to survive the heat and vibration when it crashes through the atmosphere.
United Nations Security Council resolutions ban the country, a United Nations member, from any rocket launching that uses ballistic missile technology. They mandated economic sanctions aimed at blocking North Korea from acquiring or proliferating nuclear and missile technology, but analysts have long suspected that Iran and North Korea were closely cooperating in their missile and nuclear programs, sharing components and test data.
The successful launching was a great push for the North's young leader, Kim Jong-un. On Friday, Mr. Kim held a huge banquet for the scientists and called for the development and launching of ''a variety of more working satellites'' and ''carrier rockets of bigger capacity.''
On Saturday, North Korea awarded a ''hero's title,'' one of the country's highest accolades, to 101 scientists and technicians involved in the rocket development, its state-run news media reported Sunday.
While the launching itself worked out well for North Korea, astronomers say the satellite that was its ostensible purpose is spinning through space, apparently dead.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MISSILE SYSTEMS (91%); SPACECRAFT (90%); SPACE PROPULSION (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (76%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (89%) WEST USA (79%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (98%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



826 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; DESIGN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1045 words

HEADLINE: The Stars, and Misfires, of 2012

BYLINE: By ALICE RAWSTHORN

 BODY:
LONDON -- Fancy being stranded for 24 hours in Australia's second-largest national park waiting to be rescued in scorching heat? Thought not. But that was what happened to one luckless motorist a few weeks ago, when he found himself lost in the immense Murray-Sunset National Park in Victoria after following Apple's new digital map system toward what was supposedly the town of Mildura.
Sadly, he was not the only person to be misled by Apple's inaccurate maps. No sooner did they go live in September than the Internet was flooded with reports of missing bridges and glitches like the Auckland railroad station ''floating'' in the sea. Nor were those poorly designed maps the only obstacle to impede Apple's efforts to cling onto its status as the gold standard of corporate design in the year since the death of its co-founder Steven P. Jobs. After issuing a public apology for ''Mapplegate,'' Apple fired Scott Forstall, who was responsible for the software design of its mobile devices. He was blamed not only for the map debacle, but for filling iPad and iPhone screens with winsome symbols of traditional objects relating to the different functions on those devices, like the ''wooden'' shelves containing digital books and magazines. 
I, for one, would be delighted never to see those tacky symbols again, or to hear the word ''skeumorphic,'' as that style of digital interface design is called. But Apple was not the only tech giant to encounter design problems in 2012. Microsoft received mixed reviews for the expensively developed new Windows 8 software that it had hoped would mark its design resurgence, though it did have the consolation that its graphic interface design was deemed superior to Apple's. Samsung, meanwhile, lost an important round in its global legal battle against Apple, when it was fined $1 billion by a U.S. jury for infringing its rival's patents in the design of its Galaxy smart phones and tablet computers.
While the giants wrangled with one another, many of 2012's design coups belonged to small entrepreneurs, who had the chutzpah to raise enough capital to finance their research and development programs before publicizing the results on social media networks and selling them from their own or their distributors' Web sites.
Among them is the Raspberry Pi Foundation, a nonprofit founded by researchers at the University of Cambridge's Computer Laboratory in England, which has sold more than 700,000 programmable personal computers since February. The size of a credit card, the Raspberry Pi is intended to encourage teenagers to learn about programming.
Similarly, the Brooklyn-based design group MakerBot Industries had developed a series of desktop 3-D printers in the hope of popularizing the digital production technologies, which emerged as an important theme in design last year and were showcased at the Istanbul Design Biennial and several museum exhibitions. Having begun by selling 3-D printers as self-assembly kits, MakerBot introduced the Replicator 2 in September as a ready-made desktop machine priced at $2,199, about &#x20ac;1,650, with which people can produce objects of their own design.
Nor was technology the only area of design where dynamic entrepreneurs enjoyed greater success than the established players. Some of the most impressive new products at the Milan Furniture Fair in April came from smallish companies, like the Italian manufacturer Mattiazzi and the Japanese porcelain maker Arita, while bigger groups struggled in a turbulent global market. Tellingly, Mattiazzi has also been nimbler in redesigning its operations to reduce emissions and waste than its larger competitors, many of which are struggling to design and manufacture their products on an environmentally responsible basis.
A similar pattern emerged in the fast-growing field of humanitarian design. An ambitious plan in India to develop the Aakash as a tablet computer costing less than $50 for millions of students was scarred by supply problems and complaints about the poor quality of the original model. A faster computer with more memory, the Aakash 2, was introduced last month.
By contrast, smaller endeavors thrived. Eco-fuel Africa's expansion in Uganda provided cheap organic cooking fuel for thousands of homes while creating new jobs and acting as an inspiring example of a design project conceived and executed within a developing economy. Participle, a British social design group, introduced the programs it has prototyped on a local basis to tackle problems, like caring for the elderly and stabilizing families in crisis, to other areas. And community design projects were among the highlights of the 2012 Venice Architecture Biennale.
Not that there were no successes on a larger scale. The Danish capital, Copenhagen, opened the first phase of a spectacular 300-kilometer, or 185-mile, network of cycle lanes in and around the city in April. As well as redesigning existing roads and footpaths to be cycle-friendly, the Copenhagen Cycle Super Highway is experimenting by programming traffic lights to meet cyclists' needs and angling garbage cans so that they can throw trash into them without having to stop. Eventually about 52,000 cyclists are expected to use the highway every day.
There were more design triumphs at the London 2012 Olympic Games. Innovations in the clothing and equipment used in many events, particularly cycling, demonstrated design's ability to make constructive use of new technologies, as did the advanced prosthetics used in the Paralympics. And the campaign by the South African runner Oscar Pistorius to compete in both Olympic and Paralympic events wearing prosthetic lower legs provoked a debate about the moral implications of using design not simply to counter disabilities, but to enhance our natural abilities.
On the ceremonial front, the official torch designed by BarberOsgerby with 8,000 laser-cut holes representing each runner in the torch relay was an elegant reinvention of Olympic tradition, as was the cauldron devised by Heatherwick studio from 204 copper torches, one for every competing country. Although the less said about the hideous London 2012 logo the better. Let's hope that, like skeumorphism and bug-riddled maps, it will be no more than a bad memory in 2013.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (87%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); SMARTPHONES (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (72%); PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES & TOOLS (72%); TABLET COMPUTERS (72%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (71%); SOCIAL MEDIA (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); PATENTS (68%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (67%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (60%); FINES & PENALTIES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (98%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (98%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (98%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (98%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) AUSTRALIA (90%); ENGLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



827 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: For the Holidays, Hong Kong Decks Its Skyscrapers in Lights

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- For the past few weeks, Santa Claus, looking cheerful and surrounded by twinkling stars and ornaments, has been dancing on the sides of skyscrapers.
The images, rendered in tens of thousands of lights across Hong Kong, are varied: in one part of town, Santa is riding a dolphin; not far away, giant beribboned parcels decorate the exterior of another building, blinking gently many floors above ground.
Chinese culture adores lights, and the Hong Kong skyline has some of the biggest, brashest and most colorful in the world, year-round. Shop fronts, signposts, entire buildings are lit up -- some with undulating and flickering effects -- as the sun sets each evening, enveloping the entire city in an orange glow. 
But this time of year, the spectacle ratchets up several notches. Out come vast, multicolored, complex designs that span many floors and make the Rockefeller Center in New York and Oxford Street in London pale by comparison. Frolicking reindeer, bobble-hatted snowmen, enormous Christmas trees adorn dozens of buildings, sometimes to startling effect.
The man behind many of these images is Terence Wong, who trained as an electrician and once did stage lighting work for theaters. Thirty years ago, Mr. Wong was asked by a Hong Kong property developer to add a bit of seasonal pizazz to a new complex of office buildings in Tsim Sha Tui East, an area that was then off the beaten track. He has not looked back.
''It is my passion,'' Mr. Wong, 54, said in an interview in his office, which is filled with files and lighting accessories. ''I never want to stop.''
The first job involved simple stars suspended from the tops of buildings. Over the years, Mr. Wong has made the displays ever more complex, as he and his workers have learned how to affix strings of light bulbs to the glass facades of buildings using window-cleaning platforms.
The displays, Mr. Wong said, typically cost anywhere between 20,000 and 100,000 Hong Kong dollars, or about $2,600 to $13,000, depending on the size and intricacy of the image. But for many building owners, sprucing up exteriors is as much a part of the holiday season as tree lights are for operators of shopping centers or private citizens in Western cultures.
Downturns in the economy, Mr. Wong said, do not prompt building owners to hold back on this expenditure. When an epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, hit Hong Kong in 2003, causing tourism to evaporate and the economy to buckle, building owners actually spent more on the displays, Mr. Wong said.
Likewise, spending this year has not changed, even though the Hong Kong economy, hit by the global downturn and slower growth in China, is expected to have grown just 1.2 percent in 2012. That is down from 4.9 percent last year and 6.8 percent the year before that. The displays are typical of the resilience in consumer spending in Hong Kong, where unemployment remains low -- 3.4 percent, according to the latest government figures.
Light displays are deeply ingrained in Chinese folk culture. Lanterns have been objects of artistic expression and status symbols for centuries, as have the elaborate fireworks displays that feature in major celebrations to this day. In the same vein, prominent buildings are brightly lit all over China at night, often changing colors every few seconds, while light shows are a popular form of public entertainment.
In Hong Kong, various factors have given the phenomenon an extra intensity. Unlike cities on the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong has sizable Christian and Western communities, so Christmas and Jan. 1 join the Lunar New Year as important festivals.
Then there is the sheer commercialism of Hong Kong, which derives a large part of its wealth from millions of Chinese tourists. ''For every mainland Chinese who visits Singapore or New York today, there are 20 or more who go to Hong Kong,'' Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC, said in a research report this month. By 2015, these visitors are expected to spend 55 billion dollars, equivalent to one-third of Hong Kong's gross domestic product, she added.
Attractions like the city's nightly light-and-laser show, which involves more than 40 buildings and is organized by the Hong Kong tourism board, are an important draw, and visitors flock in their thousands to see it each evening.
The holiday bonanza of decorative lights on buildings lasts about three months. Once Christmas and the Western calendar New Year are over, the displays are changed to focus on the Lunar New Year celebrations, which mark the high point of the Chinese calendar and fall in January or February. ''Merry X-mas'' wishes are replaced with Chinese characters wishing good luck and wealth for the coming year. Santa Clauses morph into Chinese money gods. Symbols of fortune and happiness replace stars and snowflakes.
Mr. Wong's illuminations started going up in late November and will stay up until a week or two after the start of the Year of the Snake, on Feb. 10.
Mr. Wong, however, stays busy year-round, looking after the manufacture of the strings of light bulbs and other equipment he needs and preparing the designs for the next season. He never recycles old images, he said, but designs three new proposals for each decoration job that Shun Sze Lighting, the company he founded in 1976, bids for.
Given that Shun Sze does about two dozen buildings per year, that is a lot of drawings -- but Mr. Wong does not seem to mind.
''Every day, I think about Christmas -- all year,'' he beamed. ''Santa Claus is coming -- every day!''
Joanne Lam contributed reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); CHRISTMAS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAILERS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); SARS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (94%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



828 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: When Prophecy Fails

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Back in the 1950s three social psychologists joined a cult that was predicting the imminent end of the world. Their purpose was to observe the cultists' response when the world did not, in fact, end on schedule. What they discovered, and described in their classic book, ''When Prophecy Fails,'' is that the irrefutable failure of a prophecy does not cause true believers -- people who have committed themselves to a belief both emotionally and by their life choices -- to reconsider. On the contrary, they become even more fervent, and proselytize even harder.
This insight seems highly relevant as 2012 draws to a close. After all, a lot of people came to believe that we were on the brink of catastrophe -- and these views were given extraordinary reach by the mass media. As it turned out, of course, the predicted catastrophe failed to materialize. But we can be sure that the cultists won't admit to having been wrong. No, the people who told us that a fiscal crisis was imminent will just keep at it, more convinced than ever. 
Oh, wait a second -- did you think I was talking about the Mayan calendar thing?
Seriously, at every stage of our ongoing economic crisis -- and in particular, every time anyone has suggested actually trying to do something about mass unemployment -- a chorus of voices has warned that unless we bring down budget deficits now now now, financial markets will turn on America, driving interest rates sky-high. And these prophecies of doom have had a powerful effect on our economic discourse.
Thus, back in May 2009 the Wall Street Journal editorial page seized on an uptick in long-term interest rates to declare that the ''bond vigilantes,'' the ''disciplinarians of U.S. policy makers,'' had arrived, and would push rates inexorably higher if big budget deficits continued. As it happened, rates soon went back down. But that didn't stop The Journal's news section from rolling out the same story the next time rates rose: ''Debt fears send rates up,'' blared a headline in March 2010; the debt continued to grow, but the rates went down again.
At this point the yield on the benchmark 10-year bond is less than half what it was when that 2009 editorial was published. But don't expect any rethinking on The Journal's part.
Now, you could say that The Journal's editors didn't give a specific date for the fiscal apocalypse, although I doubt that any of their readers imagined that they were talking about an event at least three years and seven months in the future.
In any case, some of the most prominent deficit scolds have indeed been willing to talk about dates, or at least time horizons. In early 2011 Erskine Bowles confidently declared that we would face a fiscal crisis within around two years unless something like the Bowles-Simpson deficit plan was enacted, and Alan Simpson chimed in to say that it would be less than two years. I guess he has about 10 weeks left. But again, don't expect either Mr. Simpson or Mr. Bowles to admit that there might have been something fundamentally wrong with their analysis.
No, very few of the prophets of fiscal doom have acknowledged the failure of their prophecies to come true so far. And those who have admitted surprise seem more annoyed than chastened. For example, back in 2010 Alan Greenspan -- who is, for some reason, still treated as an authority figure -- conceded that despite large budget deficits, ''inflation and long-term interest rates, the typical symptoms of fiscal excess, have remained remarkably subdued.'' But he went on to declare, ''This is regrettable, because it is fostering a sense of complacency.'' How dare reality not validate my fears!
Regular readers know that I and other economists argued from the beginning that these dire warnings of fiscal catastrophe were all wrong, that budget deficits won't cause soaring interest rates as long as the economy is depressed -- and that the biggest risk to the economy is that we might try to slash the deficit too soon. And surely that point of view has been strongly validated by events.
The key thing we need to understand, however, is that the prophets of fiscal disaster, no matter how respectable they may seem, are at this point effectively members of a doomsday cult. They are emotionally and professionally committed to the belief that fiscal crisis lurks just around the corner, and they will hold to their belief no matter how many corners we turn without encountering that crisis.
So we cannot and will not persuade these people to reconsider their views in the light of the evidence. All we can do is stop paying attention. It's going to be difficult, because many members of the deficit cult seem highly respectable. But they've been hugely, absurdly wrong for years on end, and it's time to stop taking them seriously.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTS & SECTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (87%); BUDGETS (87%); BONDS (86%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (64%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



829 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 638 words

HEADLINE: Could A.I.G. Happen Again?

 BODY:
The United States government recently sold the last of its shares in the American International Group, more than four years after it bailed out the insurance giant with a package of assistance that eventually totaled $180 billion. In announcing the sale, the Treasury Department also said that the government had a ''positive return'' of $22.7 billion -- a sum that fails to take into account tax breaks A.I.G. received as a ward of the state. But whether the government profited from the bailout is not important. The truly vital issue is this: Could this happen again? Unfortunately, the troubling answer is yes.
A.I.G., whose chief business is insuring consumers and businesses, collapsed in 2008 because of reckless speculation by a subsidiary, A.I.G. Financial Products. That unit bet big on the housing and credit boom with credit-default swaps, which are financial instruments that mimic insurance. By the time it collapsed, the division had guaranteed nearly $80 billion in mortgage securities, often for large investment banks and hedge funds. The government stepped in to bail out A.I.G. because its failure could have dealt mortal blows to other financial institutions that the company had agreed to protect from losses. 
In the aftermath of the financial crisis, policy makers in Washington, London and elsewhere began working to address the shortcomings exposed by A.I.G. Congress passed the Dodd-Frank reform law that imposes new controls on financial activity but leaves it to regulatory agencies, such as the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to fill in the details.
While those agencies have made some progress, like requiring derivative trades to be more transparently traded and reported, they have completed just one-third of the rules required by the law. The things regulators have yet to finish include imposing limits on the size of bets investors can make using credit default swaps and other exotic financial instruments, and also requiring investors to maintain sufficient reserves to make good on all of those bets.
Another cause for concern is that American, European and Asian policy makers have not sufficiently coordinated their regulation of financial derivatives. That means investors looking to escape regulations in one country can do so by moving their trades to another part of the world. The derivatives business is global and its regulation must also be international. One of the reasons the A.I.G. Financial Products unit escaped the notice of regulators was that it was based in London, where it operated under a French banking license. At the very least, U.S. agencies must regulate the trading activities of the foreign branches and subsidiaries of American financial institutions.
The blame for regulatory delays falls, in part, on an unrepentant financial industry that has fought against regulation at every turn, on Capitol Hill or in the courts. It has, for instance, sued the C.F.T.C. to block a rule that would have limited the size of investors' positions in certain derivatives.
Such shortsighted opposition hinders rules that would help restore long-term confidence in the financial system and the economy, which is in everybody's interest, including banks and investors. But ultimately, the blame for the slow progress rests with the Obama administration and policy makers in Europe and Asia, too.
After the Depression hit, the United States created several regulatory agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation that helped maintain relative financial stability and prosperity for almost seven decades before deregulation chipped away at their effectiveness. It is imperative that policy makers speed up the rules to help correct critical vulnerabilities in the financial system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); INSURANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (89%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (88%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); BANKING LAW (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); SECURITIES LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (69%); APPROVALS (69%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (67%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (67%); FUTURES (64%); HEDGE FUNDS (52%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (91%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (54%)

TICKER: AIG (NYSE) (91%); 8685 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



830 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: N.R.A. Says It Won't Budge on Gun Rules or Cooperate With Obama's Panel on Violence

BYLINE: By ERIC LICHTBLAU

 BODY:
Leaders of the National Rifle Association said Sunday that they would fight any new gun restrictions introduced in Congress, and they made clear that they were not interested in working with President Obama to help develop a broad response to the Connecticut school massacre.
During an appearance on the NBC News program "Meet the Press," Wayne LaPierre, the vice president of the powerful gun lobby, was openly dismissive of a task force established by Mr. Obama and led by Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. that is examining ways to reduce gun violence. 
"If it's a panel that's just going to be made up of a bunch of people that, for the last 20 years, have been trying to destroy the Second Amendment, I'm not interested in sitting on that panel," Mr. LaPierre said, adding that the "N.R.A. is not going to let people lose the Second Amendment in this country, which is supported by the overwhelming majority of the American people."
At a widely watched news briefing on Friday, Mr. LaPierre said the N.R.A.'s solution to prevent mass shootings like those that have occurred in the last few years -- several of them on school campuses - was to put armed guards in schools nationwide. During the briefing, he and the gun group's president, David Keene, did not directly address plans proposed in the last week that would ban assault rifles or otherwise restrict the availability of firearms.
But during a round of appearances on the Sunday talk shows by Mr. LaPierre, Mr. Keene and Asa Hutchinson, a former Republican congressman from Arkansas who will lead the gun group's response to the shooting in Newtown, Conn., they made it clear that the N.R.A. opposed any of the gun restrictions now under discussion and did not believe they should be part of the discussion.
On the question of whether a limit on high-capacity ammunition would reduce the likelihood of mass shootings like the one in Connecticut, Mr. LaPierre said in a testy exchange with David Gregory, the host of "Meet the Press," that "I don't think it will."
"I keep saying it, and you just won't accept it - it's not going to work. It hasn't worked," Mr. LaPierre said.
As for the idea of reinstating a ban on so-called assault rifles, which was in place from 1994 to 2004, he said, "I think that is a phony piece of legislation, and I do not believe it will pass for this reason: It's all built on lies that have been found out."
While the N.R.A. has been criticized sharply by gun-control advocates since it broke its silence about the Connecticut shooting on Friday, it did receive some support from Senator Lindsay Graham, the influential South Carolina Republican who also appeared Sunday on "Meet the Press."
"People where I live, I've been Christmas shopping all weekend, have come up to me: 'Please don't let the government take my guns away,' " Mr. Graham said. "And I'm going to stand against another assault ban because it didn't work before, and it won't work in the future.''
On the other big issue in Washington at the moment - negotiations over a deficit-reduction deal to avert tax increases and spending cuts set to take effect after the new year - Republicans and Democrats expressed pessimism about reaching a deal in time, and they spent much of the morning blaming each other for the gridlock.
"I believe the president is eager to go over the cliff for political purposes," Senator John Barrasso, Republican of Wyoming, said on "Fox News Sunday." "He senses a victory at the bottom of the cliff. I think it hurts our country and hurts our economy."
But Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said Republicans were the ones playing politics with the fiscal talks and taking the risk of putting the country over the so-called "fiscal cliff."
"If we go over it, God forbid, and I still don't think we have to, the American people are going to blame the Republican Party," Mr. Schumer said on "Meet the Press."
Lawmakers were not much more optimistic when asked about the prospects of the Senate confirming Chuck Hagel, the former Republican senator from Nebraska, who is considered a top candidate to to succeed Leon E. Panetta as defense secretary.
Mr. Hagel has drawn criticism in recent days for his record on Israel and gays. "The Republicans are going to ask him hard questions, and I don't think he's going to get many Republican votes," Mr. Graham predicted.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Wayne LaPierre of the National Rifle Association said on Sunday that an expired assault weapons ban was ''all built on lies.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (92%); FIREARMS (91%); SHOOTINGS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (77%); CAMPUS SECURITY (70%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOE BIDEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



831 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Cargo Continues Moving on the Mississippi River, but Perhaps Not for Long

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
The Mississippi River is still open for business -- for now. January is another story.
A Midwestern drought has brought the river, one of the world's largest navigable inland waterways, to water levels so low that they threaten to shut down shipping. The Mississippi, which handles some $7 billion in trade in a typical December and January, is expected to be closed to navigation between St. Louis and Cairo, Ill., when water levels dip toward the nine feet of depth that is necessary for most tugboats to clear the river bottom.
Those who ship goods up and down the river have asked the federal government to do two things: destroy rock formations known as pinnacles in Southern Illinois that hinder navigation when the water is shallow, and release more water from reservoirs along the upper Missouri River. 
The Army Corps of Engineers has begun meeting the first request, using excavating equipment to break down the formations. Officials said the work should take 30 to 45 days.
Getting the corps to release the water has been more difficult. The corps has rejected requests for large-scale water releases from the upper Missouri, saying it does not have the authority to use that water to aid navigation on the Mississippi.
Senator John Thune, Republican of South Dakota, applauded that decision and called it ''unlawful'' to release water that states like South Dakota need and use. He said that his region, too, has suffered ''significant negative impact'' because of the drought.
The Waterways Council, a group that lobbies on behalf of inland carriers, operators and ports, had initially warned that traffic would come to a halt by Monday. But so far, the water levels have dropped more slowly than expected, in part because of small water releases by the corps. A coalition of businesses involved in trade along the Mississippi and sympathetic lawmakers have asked President Obama to order the water released.
''It would cripple our national economy to shut down the Mississippi River,'' said R. D. James, a Missouri farmer and a member of the Mississippi River Commission, which manages uses of the river with the corps.
But without action from the president, Congress or the courts, the water will stay behind the reservoirs of the upper Missouri.
''When they get a little water in those reservoirs,'' Mr. James said, ''they don't want to give it up.''
It could soon be too late to prevent a partial closing. Water takes two weeks to make its way from the upper Missouri River reservoirs, and predictions released by the corps over the weekend suggest that without substantial rainfall, the water levels could dip below nine feet by Jan. 11.
With the threat of a shutdown ahead, farmers might decide to hold their grain instead of shipping it in a more expensive manner, said Gregory L. Guenther, a farmer and corporate consultant. Since farmers tend to pay for the coming year's supplies like fertilizer with those sales, they will have to borrow instead, and ''that means paying interest on it.''
Transporting goods by rail is a less attractive option, Mr. Guenther said, because shipping and storage facilities that use the river are not necessarily near rail lines, and rail capacity is limited. Altogether, shifting transportation modes would drive up prices, he said, adding, ''Rail is not the answer.''
Rick Calhoun, the president of Cargo Carriers, a part of Cargill, noted that carriers were already loading barges to a lighter weight to deal with the water depth, which also ends up raising costs.
''We put less product in the barge, it takes longer to get there, and we use more fuel per barge,'' Mr. Calhoun said, adding, ''We're going to be running into very difficult issues.''
Col. Christopher G. Hall, the commander of the St. Louis district of the corps, said, ''We're doing everything that we possibly can to keep that channel at the authorized depth so that they can continue to operate.''
Intense dredging, tweaks and luck have helped push the crisis ''to the right'' on the calendar, Colonel Hall said, but it is unclear how long that will last.
The low water conditions could persist into the spring, when it generally rains more.
Steven L. Stockton, the director of civil works for the corps, said, ''The only long-term solution is more rain.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chunks of limestone being removed from the Mississippi River last week in Southern Illinois. (PHOTOGRAPH BY U.S. ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS, VIA REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAKES (90%); RIVERS (90%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (90%); DROUGHT (89%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (72%); ARMIES (70%); LOBBYING (69%); US PRESIDENTS (62%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%); JOHN THUNE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT LOUIS, MO, USA (90%) MISSISSIPPI RIVER (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



832 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1427 words

HEADLINE: Citing Broken System, Critics Fight Russia's Adoption Ban

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
MOSCOW -- The orphans' faces can be called up on screen, their photos the size of postage stamps, along with a few data points and a note about their personalities, often just a word or two.
Kirill P., age 6, from Rostov in the south -- hazel eyes, brown hair -- wears a sweatshirt with dragons on it and is described simply as ''sociable.'' Angelina F., 16 months, from Khabarovsk in the Far East -- gray eyes, brown hair -- is actively developing an interest in her surroundings and ''responds to any caring and affection.''
Maksim N., who just turned 11, is ''mobile, restless, outgoing, likes to play games.'' This is Russia's ''federal database of orphans and children without parental care,'' a publicly available electronic repository of the forlorn and forgotten -- more than 118,000 of them.
Child-welfare advocates say that it is orphans like these who are likely to be hurt most if Russian lawmakers succeed in banning adoptions by Americans -- a move intended as retaliation for American criticism of Russian rights abuses. The advocates say a ban would end up further fraying a disastrously overwhelmed foster care and orphanage system here. 
''Members of Parliament today say, 'Russia Without Orphans,' '' said Boris L. Altshuler, the chairman of the advocacy group Right of the Child who also serves on a Kremlin advisory panel, his voice sputtering in anger as he described the incongruous slogan of a bill that would make it harder to find homes for the children. ''They know the slogan. The motto is very good, but there is nothing in their minds behind it.''
The bill's rapid advance, in less than a week, has ignited an emotional debate here, with critics of the ban using the moment to focus attention on Russia's troubled child protection system, even as supporters say they are trying to keep children out of foreign hands.
More than 650,000 children are living without parental supervision in Russia, according to statistics maintained by the Ministry of Education and Science, with more than 500,000 in foster care and more than 100,000 in orphanages -- including the children in the federal database, which is available to prospective adoptive families, even though some of the children are not eligible for adoption.
By contrast, the Children's Bureau of the Department of Health and Human Services in the United States has reported only about 400,000 living without parents, and only about 58,000 living in institutions or group homes, in a country with a population more than twice Russia's.
In a telephone interview, Mr. Altshuler described the proposed adoption ban as the latest in a long series of bad policy decisions related to housing, education and social services, resulting in a system that actually encourages parents in financial trouble to cede custody of their children to the state, at least temporarily.
While more Russian children are adopted into homes in the United States each year than any other foreign nation, the overall numbers are relatively small -- fewer than 1,000 out of 3,400 international adoptions in 2011. More than 7,400 were adopted by Russian families that year, according to the education and science ministry.
Still, Mr. Altshuler said a ban would be devastating. Some of Russia's orphanages are badly overcrowded, with children institutionalized throughout their young lives, and many are ill-equipped to deal with the wide array of physical and mental problems common among the children, including fetal alcohol syndrome and congenital disabilities.
''A thousand kids per year will not go to the United States and will stay in Russian institutions with all the tragic consequences,'' he said. As for members of Parliament, he said: ''They are cannibals. They kill the country and they kill the children.''
Supporters of the ban say the United States government has not done enough to protect adopted Russian children and has not lived up to an agreement on heightened oversight that went into effect on Nov. 1. Though there is a strong nationalist streak in their arguments, occasionally ugly cases have generated international attention: including a 7-year-old boy sent back to Russia alone by his adoptive mother in Tennessee in 2010.
Yekaterina F. Lakhova, a member of Parliament and sponsor of the ban, said that years of working on child welfare issues led her to conclude that the international adoption process is overly profit-driven, and she said Russians should take care of their own.
''If the country is self-sufficient, if it believes in itself, you have to do it here,'' Ms. Lakhova said, in an interview published by the news site PublicPost. ''No normal, economically developed country gives away their children. I am a patriot of Russia.''
In many ways the insistence by some officials that Russia should handle its own child welfare echoes efforts by President Vladimir V. Putin to restore Russia's standing as a world power after the decline following the collapse of the Soviet Union.
In September, the Kremlin ordered the United States Agency for International Development to end its operations here after two decades of partnership on public health campaigns, civil society initiatives and other programs mostly paid for by American taxpayers.
In explaining the decision, Russian officials said the country no longer needed the help, even though public health advocates said that many programs, like those fighting tuberculosis and H.I.V., were sorely lacking.
The Kremlin has also announced plans to end a partnership with the United States, known as the Nunn-Lugar agreement, to dismantle nuclear, chemical and other unconventional weapons, also largely paid for by Americans, saying Russia would handle the effort on its own.
While relatively little public protest greeted either of those decisions, a huge outcry followed the proposed adoption ban. The bill, set off by a new American law punishing Russians accused of human rights abuses, cleared the lower house of Parliament on Friday and is considered likely to pass the upper house. Mr. Putin, who defended the proposal at his annual news conference last week, has not yet said whether he will support it.
But other senior officials have spoken out against the ban, dividing the government. Public criticism has been even stronger.
The newspaper Novaya Gazeta has collected more than 132,000 signatures online against the ban. ''Signatures are needed to protect Russian children from vile members of Parliament,'' the newspaper posted on its site.
In another newspaper, Argumenti i Fakti, the journalist Yulia Kolesnichenko published an article describing her experience as the parent of an adopted 3-year-old son, Timor. ''Orphanages at least in the form in which they exist in Russia now are just evil,'' she wrote.
Last week, Ms. Kolesnichenko's husband, Aleksandr, also a journalist, was one of eight questioners to confront Mr. Putin on the proposed adoption ban at the annual presidential news conference.
Noting that Prime Minister Dmitri A. Medvedev had called for the government to improve the child-welfare system, Mr. Kolesnichenko asked, ''Could you tell us in a little more detail what steps and programs these will be? My personal three-year experience shows that our system treats adoptive parents as a threat on the one hand and a burden on the other.''
Mr. Putin offered no specifics, and snapped back, ''I totally disagree with you.'' At another point, he asked if Mr. Kolesnichenko enjoyed hearing about occasional cases of adopted Russian children who became victims of abuse or even died in the United States, which lawmakers have used as a basis for the proposed ban. ''Are you a sadomasochist?'' Mr. Putin asked.
In her article, Ms. Kolesnichenko described how the couple already had a biological teenage daughter and could have had more children but chose to adopt a boy who did not look ''Slavic,'' knowing that his chances of being welcomed into a Russian family were slim as a result. Timor has Central Asian features -- his biological mother is believed to be from the former Soviet republic of Uzbekistan.
''We came to adoption only because at some point we understood that all the rest was practically useless,'' Ms. Kolesnichenko wrote, describing a sense of futility visiting orphanages with gifts for children and donations of diapers.
''Yes, Mr. President, Russian hospitals and orphanages lack Pampers, and I am afraid few think about the hygienic needs of teenage girls,'' she wrote, adding, ''They are absolutely an artificial model further damaging psyches of those who have already been traumatized.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Orphans in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don. More than 100,000 Russian children live in orphanages. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (A9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ORPHANS (90%); ADOPTION (89%); CHILD WELFARE (88%); CHILDREN (88%); STATISTICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (65%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (89%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



833 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1188 words

HEADLINE: Windows 8 Sales Disappoint in Shaky PC Market

BYLINE: By NICK WINGFIELD

 BODY:
BELLEVUE, Wash. -- It used to be that a new version of the Windows operating system was enough to get people excited about buying a new computer, giving sales a nice pop.
Not this time. Windows 8, the latest edition of Microsoft's software, failed to pack shoppers into a Microsoft store in a mall here last week, at a time when parking lots in the area were overflowing. The trickle of shopping bags leaving the store with merchandise was nothing like the steady stream at a bustling Apple store upstairs.
Claude Ballard was among the customers at the Microsoft store who tried out Surface, a new Microsoft-designed Windows tablet. Mr. Ballard, who described himself as a ''semiretired'' computer systems manager for a real estate firm, said he was intrigued by the eye-catching design of Windows 8 -- but not enough to scrimp to buy a new computer this year.
''It's economics, really,'' he said. ''It's going to be a better year for my mechanic than it is for me.'' 
Weak PC sales this holiday season suggest that the struggles of Microsoft and other companies that depend heavily on the computer business will not abate soon. Plenty of consumers already own PCs and seem content to make do with what they have, especially in a shaky economy in which less expensive mobile devices are bidding for a share of their wallets.
While there are also many tablets running Microsoft's new, touch-friendly Windows, they have so far failed to emerge from the shadow of competing products from Apple and Amazon and other devices that are being snapped up by holiday shoppers.
Emmanuel Fromont, president of the Americas division of Acer, the world's No. 4 PC maker, said sales of the company's Windows 8 PCs had been lower than expected. He said one factor was the system's unfamiliar design, which appeared to be making consumers cautious.
''There was not a huge spark in the market,'' Mr. Fromont said. ''It's a slow start, there's no question.''
The clearest evidence of Windows 8's disappointing introduction comes from the research firm NPD, which estimates that sales of Windows machines have actually dropped from a year ago.
According to NPD, stores in the United States sold 13 percent fewer Windows devices from late October, when Windows 8 made its debut, through the first week in December, than in the same period last year.
Those figures do not include sales in Microsoft's own stores, which were the only place to buy a Surface tablet during that period, but because the stores are scarce, analysts believe it is unlikely they made a big difference.
''I think everybody would have hoped for a better start,'' said Stephen Baker, an analyst at NPD. ''The thing is, this market is not the same market that Windows 7 or Vista or even XP launched into.''
Those earlier versions of Windows all came out during periods when the PC's status as the center of computing seemed far more secure. In the intervening years, smartphones and tablets have become much more serious rivals for a share of consumer spending on technology. Sales of PCs have been declining for much of the year.
While most people are not getting rid of their PCs altogether in favor of mobile devices, analysts believe they are postponing purchases of new ones.
''What you're seeing is not a retirement of PCs, but a push-out in the replacement cycle,'' said A. M. Sacconaghi, an analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein. ''If people used to buy PCs every four years and are now buying them every five years, that could lower PC sales by 20 percent over time. That's substantial.''
Mr. Sacconaghi predicted that global PC shipments would be down 3 percent in 2012.
The shift in spending to tablets is one reason that Windows 8 is so critical for Microsoft's future. The company overhauled its operating system with a radically different, tile-based interface that is easier to navigate on touch-screen devices. Microsoft intends the software to be flexible enough that it can still be used on conventional laptops and desktops, including newer models with touch screens.
But the changes have disappointed a lot of reviewers and interface design experts, who have focused in particular on the potentially confusing coexistence of the new tile interface alongside the old desktop one.
Mr. Fromont of Acer said he thought there would be more excitement around PCs when more of the devices on store shelves had touch screens. Only 15 percent of Acer's current Windows 8 products in North America have touch screens, he said.
Mark Martin, a spokesman for Microsoft, declined to comment, referring to past statements by Microsoft executives arguing that because Windows 8 is such a big shift, its rollout cannot be fairly judged over one shopping season.
The company says it sold 40 million copies of Windows 8 during its first month on the market, a figure that includes upgrade discs sold to consumers and copies installed on new machines by PC makers.
Apart from Acer, PC manufacturers showed little interest in discussing holiday sales of their products. Representatives for other big PC makers, including Lenovo, Dell, Hewlett-Packard, Asus and Toshiba, either declined to comment on sales or did not respond to requests for comment.
Bill Calder, a spokesman for Intel, which provides the microprocessors at the heart of most PCs, did not dispute that PC sales had been slower than hoped for this holiday season, but he predicted that new Windows 8 devices coming out next year would change that. ''We're excited about the prospects,'' Mr. Calder said.
Big retailers of PCs were also mostly silent on their holiday sales. Jeff Haydock, a spokesman for Best Buy, said Windows 8's effect on PC sales had ''met our expectations.'' Abt Electronics, a Chicago-based retailer, painted a more positive picture, estimating that unit sales of computers were up 13 percent so far this year.
Amazon's list of its 100 best-selling electronics products offers a telling overview of the must-have devices for this holiday season: tablets like Amazon's Kindle Fire HD and Apple's iPad. On Friday afternoon there were just five computers on the list, all laptops, including two from Apple that cost more than $1,000. Only one laptop on the list came with Windows 8 as an option, while another ran Windows 7.
Brendan Barnicle, an analyst at Pacific Crest Securities, said tablets were sapping the growth of laptops, which represent the biggest chunk of computer sales. ''Tablets are doing to the laptop market what laptops did to the desktop market,'' he said. ''They're not going away.''
At a cavernous Best Buy store in Tukwila, Wash., last week, displays of mobile devices like the Kindle Fire HD and the iPad were much more crowded than the displays of Windows 8 devices arrayed around a much bigger section of the store. Hunched over a Windows 8 laptop was Jeff Lindstrom, a resource specialist at a Y.M.C.A. in Seattle, who said he needed to buy a computer that day for a youth program.
He didn't care for the design of Windows 8 himself, though, and said he had no plans to replace his own six-year-old laptop. ''I'm not impressed,'' Mr. Lindstrom said. ''It's such a different direction than what I'm used to.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: One researcher said sales of Windows devices were down compared with last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TED S. WARREN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B1)
 Viewing Windows 8 in New York upon its debut in October. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (77%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (77%); SYSTEMS ADMINISTRATION (73%); COMPUTER MAKERS (73%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (66%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (56%)

COMPANY: MICROSOFT CORP (92%)

TICKER: MSFT (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (92%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



834 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Who Should Provide Our Medical Care?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As millions obtain health insurance and can gain access to continuing health care, the American Medical Association supports physician-led health care teams that ensure that health care professionals work together to meet the surge in demand (''When the Doctor Is Not Needed,'' editorial, Dec. 16).
According to a recent A.M.A. survey, 86 percent of respondents said patients benefit when a physician leads the primary care team. 
Physicians and health care professionals have long worked together to meet patient needs for a reason: patients win when each team member plays the role for which he is educated and trained. Nurses are an important part of this team, but to devalue the central role that physicians play in patient care disregards the rich tradition of physician service.
The A.M.A. is working to ensure sustainable physician practices that result in better health outcomes for patients, and having more physician-led health care teams will help us achieve these goals.
ARDIS D. HOVEN President-Elect American Medical Association Chicago, Dec. 18, 2012
To the Editor:
As a family physician with nearly 30 years' experience, I was surprised to read that many of the ''routine tasks'' that I perform can be carried out as well if not better by nurses, physician assistants, pharmacists, community members and even patients themselves.
I am not sure which of the routine tasks I perform your editorial was referring to. The diagnosis of atrial fibrillation in a patient complaining of weakness in her legs? The diagnosis of an acute myocardial infarction in a patient complaining of indigestion? Or the diagnosis of an acetaminophen overdose in a child complaining of nausea?
Those are only three examples of patients I have evaluated and whose conditions I have diagnosed during ''routine'' office visits. I wonder which community member can be relied upon to provide those services.
RHONA H. FINK La Jolla, Calif., Dec. 18, 2012
To the Editor:
For some years and increasingly more so, primary care has become a hodgepodge of many different medical services, some of which, as you suggested, can be provided by non-physicians and even patients themselves.
But the driving force behind this is not entirely economic, as some would say. Rather, it is the immense amount of administrative and coordinative work that has forced traditional primary care out of the family of strictly ''scientific'' medicine.
Nurses, pharmacists, retail clinics and, yes, even patients themselves will provide the majority of primary care services in the future.
Primary care will be defined by who is providing it, not by what is being done.
EDWARD VOLPINTESTA Bethel, Conn., Dec. 17, 2012
The writer is a general practitioner.
To the Editor:
Is this the future of medicine, when primarily pharmacists, nurses, aides and the rest control our care? Is this the Obamacare of the near future?
Medical care without doctors: wow, that solves everything.
PAMELA McFEELY New Canaan, Conn., Dec. 16, 2012
To the Editor:
Medical care needs coordination, continuity and communication. The suggestions you made will result in more care but not appropriate care.
Experience with Minute Clinics and other such clinics indicates that patients receive a wrong diagnosis and are overtreated with antibiotics. Pharmacists employed by chain pharmacies are pressed to suggest medications, tests and treatments without a correct diagnosis or an understanding of the patient's medical history. Physicians estimate that 20 to 25 percent of the care provided is unnecessary.
As we move forward to carry out Obamacare, we need to focus on what care is provided. The low-hanging fruit of medical costs is in the routine testing, prescribing and treatments that are of little value despite being well intended, at times harmful but often driven by financial incentive.
It is remarkable that an industry accounting for 18 percent of our gross domestic product is based on how much care is provided rather than on outcomes of care: illness prevented, lives extended, mortality reduced and quality of life maintained or improved.
MICHAEL A. NEWMAN Washington, Dec. 17, 2012
The writer is a clinical professor of medicine at the George Washington University School of Medicine.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LUC MELANSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (92%); HEALTH CARE (91%); NURSES & NURSING (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PHARMACISTS (89%); PHYSICIANS ASSISTANTS (78%); PHYSICIAN PRACTICES (78%); FAMILY PRACTICE (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); FAMILY (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); WRITERS (73%); HEART DISEASE (64%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (64%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



835 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 159 words

HEADLINE: Behind in Math and Science

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was not surprised to read ''U.S. Students Still Lag Globally in Math and Science, Tests Show'' (news article, Dec. 11). Test after test has shown that our K-12 students are lagging behind not just students in other highly developed or up-and-coming countries, but also behind students in many countries not on anybody's list of up-and-coming innovation powerhouses. 
We have a science, technology, engineering and mathematics, or STEM, education crisis in this country, and we must do something about it if we hope to compete in the 21st-century global economy.
STEM education is critical not only to students' success but also to our country's economic future. I sincerely hope that even in today's partisan political environment, the 113th Congress will emphasize and invest in STEM education.
EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON Washington, Dec. 11, 2012
The writer, a Texas Democrat, is ranking member of the House Committee on Science, Space and Technology.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MATHEMATICS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%)

PERSON: EDDIE BERNICE JOHNSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



836 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: Promoting Made in U.S.A., but Very Carefully

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
BRANDS reviving the ''Made in the U.S.A.'' slogan to attract buyers for American-produced goods are relying less on patriotism and more on data that shows consumers are willing to pay a premium for better quality, quicker availability and product safety.
But many companies are stepping gingerly, avoiding sweeping claims and spelling out what ''Made in the U.S.A.'' means for their products. Consumers are more shrewd about how few consumer goods actually are made in the United States, leaving companies less wiggle room about the origin of products. 
The Whirlpool Corporation, for example, specified in full-page print advertisements this year that 80 percent of its appliances ''sold in the U.S. come from our U.S. factories.'' Despite its deep American roots, the 101-year-old company -- which makes Maytag, Amana, KitchenAid and Jenn-Air products -- has, like other corporate giants, moved some manufacturing abroad.
As a result of its centennial celebrations last year, some consumers have urged the company to talk more about its American origins, said William Beck, a senior marketing director at Whirlpool, which spent $57.4 million in 2011 on advertising, according to Kantar Media, a WPP unit.
In recent months, the appliance giant has been underlining its American factories, and noting in its overall brand advertising that it employs about 22,000 workers (15,000 of them at its manufacturing plants), and spends $7.4 billion annually on operating and maintaining its factories in Iowa, Ohio, Oklahoma and Tennessee.
But Whirlpool, whose ad drew a full-page rebuttal from the International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers accusing it of shutting factories in the United States, said nostalgia and similar sentiments do not drive its sales. ''Whirlpool's key differentiating points are quality and innovation,'' said Mr. Beck, and ''the icing is that, hey, we're made in the United States.''
Whirlpool does not share its market research, but other market studies show that customers increasingly take note of where a product is made. Perception Research Services International, in a September study, found that four out of five shoppers notice a ''Made in the U.S.A.'' label on packaging, and 76 percent of them said they would be more likely to buy a product because of the label.
While shoppers, especially those over 35, say they want to help the economy by buying United States-made goods, ''the motivating factors actually may be quality and safety,'' said Jonathan Asher, executive vice president of Perception Research Services. The company, which is based in Teaneck, N.J., surveyed 1,400 consumers last summer. ''People are paying attention in categories that are ingested like food, medicine and personal care products, but less so in electronics, office supplies and appliances,'' he said.
In a separate study, the Boston Consulting Group found that 80 percent of consumers surveyed said they would be willing to pay more for ''Made in the U.S.A.'' products than for those carrying a ''Made in China'' label.
They would pay the biggest differential for items like baby food and wooden toys, and a smaller percentage for electronics, apparel and appliances, said Kate Manfred, director of the group's Center for Consumer and Customer Insight in the Americas, which released the study in mid-November.
''Safety and quality, and keeping jobs in America, are the important factors,'' she said.
Bixbi, a Boulder, Colo., pet treat provider, has relied on safety to increase sales. The company, which started in 2008 amid revelations of tainted dog food ingredients imported from overseas, sells dog treats made from locally raised chickens and other animals.
''Our sales have grown 600 percent each year,'' said James Crouch, who founded the small company with his brother, Michael. ''Locally sourced is a key advantage.''
But for all the talk about American-made goods, Bixbi is one of the few clients that have adopted ''Made in the U.S.A.'' marketing, said Dave Schiff, co-founder of Made Movement, a Boulder advertising firm that handles the Bixbi account.
''Some customers think that the American-made label may just be window dressing and companies can be reluctant to use it,'' Mr. Schiff said. He and two colleagues started their firm in April to enlist client companies that manufacture in the United States.
Classifying goods as American-made can be dicey, he discovered, because many products have parts that are made outside the United States. To generate interest in such products, as well as a revenue stream, his firm in July started a Made Collection Web site to sell American-made goods.
But finding goods manufactured in the United States for the Web site has been a challenge, Mr. Schiff said. Many items on the Web site are expensive, like a $225 dress shirt from Hamilton, the Houston company that makes Made in America apparel that competes with brands like Levi's Vintage Clothing and Orvis, which also capitalize on manufacturing in the United States.
Companies are keenly aware that highlighting American-made credentials can backfire after the experience of the apparel maker Ralph Lauren. Renowned for its American nostalgia, Lauren provided uniforms for the 2012 United States Olympic team that were made in China. That resulted in threats of a boycott by some angry consumers.
Some companies like Exxel Outdoors, which makes camping, hunting and fishing equipment, have considered, then rejected, marketing their American-made credentials. Exxel makes two million sleeping bags annually at its Haleyville, Ala., factory.
''We do manufacture in the United States, but there are a lot of variables, like where the components are made. Some of ours come from abroad, so it could be confusing,'' Harry Kazazian, the company's chief executive, explained.
''Simply using the Made in the U.S.A. label is not enough,'' said Jaynie L. Smith, chief executive of Smart Advantage, a consulting firm based in Fort Lauderdale, Fla.
''Companies can be foreign owned,'' said Ms. Smith, who wrote ''Relevant Selling,'' a book about corporate sales strategy. ''But they need to say that 'We are still on your soil. We create jobs. We make quality products, and we're delivering them quickly.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: This ad for Whirlpool, which makes some products abroad, also said most of its appliances ''sold in the U.S. come from our U.S. factories.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MFG (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (88%); BRANDING (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); PRODUCT SAFETY (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (68%)

COMPANY: WHIRLPOOL CORP (94%)

TICKER: WHR (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335228 OTHER MAJOR HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335224 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (94%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



837 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 881 words

HEADLINE: Albert Hirschman, 97, Optimistic Economist

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Albert O. Hirschman, who in his youth helped rescue thousands of artists and intellectuals from Nazi-occupied France and went on to become an influential economist known for his optimism, died on Dec. 10 in Ewing Township, N.J. He was 97.
His death was confirmed by the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J., where Mr. Hirschman spent the latter part of his career. 
Mr. Hirschman pieced together his graduate work in economics in the 1930s while serving as a soldier and something of an insurgent. Born in Germany, he fought on the anti-fascist side in the Spanish Civil War and later joined the French Army in its resistance to the Nazis.
When France fell in 1940, he became an integral part of a rescue operation led by the journalist Varian Fry that helped more than 2,000 people escape to Spain, among them the artists Marc Chagall and Marcel Duchamp and the political theorist Hannah Arendt.
Mr. Hirschman found routes through the Pyrenees Mountains for those who were fleeing and smuggled messages in toothpaste tubes.
By the early 1940s, he had moved to the United States and enlisted in the Army, which sent him to North Africa and to Italy as part of the Office of Strategic Services. One of his duties was to translate for a German general in an early war crimes trial. Later, he worked with the Federal Reserve Board, focusing on European reconstruction under the Marshall Plan.
In 1952, he moved to Colombia to be an economic adviser to that impoverished but rapidly developing country. A few years later, he was back in the United States, beginning a 30-year academic career in which he blended economics, politics and culture and held posts at Yale, Columbia and Harvard. He rarely invoked the experiences of his youth in his academic work, but certain themes persisted in both periods of his life.
Mr. Hirschman argued that social setbacks were essentially an ingredient of progress, that good things eventually come from what he viewed as constructive tensions between private interest and civicmindedness, between quiet compliance and loud protest.
He ranged widely in his writings, which include geographically specific studies on economic development, like ''Journeys Toward Progress: Studies of Economic Policy-Making in Latin America.'' A broader work was ''Exit, Voice and Loyalty: Responses to Decline in Firms, Organizations and States,'' published in 1970.
That book outlined different ways that people deal with disagreeable rules or situations politically, culturally and professionally. Some might suffer silently out of loyalty, while others raise questions and still others decide to abandon a situation. The theory has been applied to how politically oppressed people might flee a nation as well as why shoppers stop buying a certain product -- a retail variation of what Mr. Hirschman called the ''exit option.''
In 2003, William Safire, the columnist for The New York Times who also wrote the On Language column for The New York Times Magazine, led an informal search for the roots of the phrase ''exit strategy.'' The search led to economists, who pointed to Mr. Hirschman, who denied culpability, sort of.
''Did he coin the phrase?'' Mr. Safire wrote after interviewing Mr. Hirschman. ''No; it's nowhere in his book. He used exit option. 'It was a somewhat new concept then,' Hirschman recalls. 'I used exit to indicate a possibility, a strategy. When you are dissatisfied, you can use your voice option or your exit option. It is not so different from the political use today. Speak up or get out.' ''
While many economists were increasingly immersed in statistics, Mr. Hirschman often wrote with a storyteller's sweep about the behavior of nations, institutions and individuals. At a time when top-down models for stabilizing economies were popular, particularly in developing countries, Mr. Hirschman was inclined toward a kind of chaotic capitalism called disequilibria.
Mr. Hirschman ''thought disequilibria creates problems that you have to solve -- and that's a good thing,'' said Jeremy Adelman, a professor of history at Princeton and the author of a biography, ''Worldly Philosopher: The Odyssey of Albert O. Hirschman,'' to be published next year.
Otto Albert Hirschmann was born on April 7, 1915, in Berlin. (He later changed the order of his given names and dropped one of the n's from his last name.) His father was a surgeon. His survivors include a daughter, Katia Salomon; four grandchildren and nine great-grandchildren. His wife of 70 years, the former Sarah Chapiro, died in January.
Mr. Hirschman was an ardent optimist. He believed, as Mr. Adelman put it, ''that even the most seemingly immutable, impossible situations could be solved, that you could change things that seemed unchangeable.''
But he also said that things sometimes had to get harder before they got better.
''Somehow we always try to think in terms of having only one thing happen; everything else will coalesce around it, and we'll come out all right,'' Mr. Hirschman said in a transcribed conversation with an anthropologist in 1976.
He added: ''Generally we only have one lever at a time. We only have one 'new key' at a time. To try to counteract this sort of thinking is very important. This kind of faddishness has marred all thinking about economic development.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Albert O. Hirschman, in a 1974 photo, blended economics, politics and culture. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WRITERS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); CIVIL WAR (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); WAR CRIMES (70%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (64%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (64%)

COMPANY: SERVICE ONE (55%)

ORGANIZATION: INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED STUDY (58%); MARSHALL PLAN (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); PYRENEES (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (90%); SPAIN (79%); LATIN AMERICA (78%); GERMANY (77%); CENTRAL EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



838 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Rebounding at the Box Office

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES

 BODY:
LOS ANGELES -- Some blockbuster new characters -- Katniss Everdeen, Ted the foul-mouthed bear -- joined some familiar ones (Batman, Bond, Baggins) to deliver a lift to moviegoing in North America in 2012, increasing attendance by 5.6 percent after two years of declines.
Projections show that about 1.36 billion people will see films this year, compared with 1.29 billion in 2011. Ticket revenue at North American theaters is projected to jump by 6 percent, to $10.8 billion, according to Paul Dergarabedian, a box-office analyst for Hollywood.com. What really matters, however, is that Hollywood achieved the increase without raising prices.
The anticipated lift in attendance, which factors in crowds for two big movies that are to open on Christmas Day, ''Django Unchained'' and ''Les Misérables,'' would be the industry's biggest yearly increase since 2002. Lately, studios and publicly traded theater chains like Regal Entertainment suffered drops in annual attendance, forcing them to prop up revenue by charging more for admission and concessions. 
''I really believe that momentum from weekend to weekend is crucial -- that was fun, let's come back -- and we had sustained periods of that this year,'' said Greg Foster, chairman of Imax Filmed Entertainment. Imax's domestic ticket revenue will end the year up 50 percent, he said, the result of popular movies and an increasing reliance on Imax by studios as a way to differentiate releases.
Hollywood's upswing is particularly notable because it comes despite a poor summer season, a period from the first full weekend in May to Labor Day when studios typically record 40 percent of their annual revenue. Summer ticket revenue dropped 3 percent and attendance hit a 19-year low. The July theater shootings in a Colorado theater kept some people home, but a lot of films were simply mediocre.
Why did Adam Shankman's adaptation of ''Rock of Ages'' sputter? ''It was a bad movie,'' David Geffen said at an industry gathering in July. ''And it's unusual when a bad movie succeeds.''
Still, how Americans respond to movies became less important to studios in 2012. Look no further than ''Ice Age: Continental Drift,'' from 20th Century Fox, to understand why. North American ticket sales for ''Continental Drift,'' the fourth installment in the animated series, totaled $161 million, a 24 percent decline from ''Ice Age: Dawn of the Dinosaurs'' in 2009, after adjusting for inflation.
Then why is Fox thrilled with its performance and developing ideas for a fifth chapter? Because ''Continental Drift'' took in $714 million overseas, including $68 million in China alone. ''This is a turning-point year for the relationship between China and Hollywood,'' said Phil Contrino, editor of Boxoffice.com. ''It's becoming very clear how important China is to the worldwide gross of a film.''
Movies are a cyclical business in which a couple of hits (or misses) can whipsaw results. To that end, analysts emphasize that 2012 benefited greatly from just two films: ''The Hunger Games'' in March and ''Skyfall'' in November.
Backed by an effective social media marketing campaign, Lionsgate's ''Hunger Games'' blew past robust expectations to become the No. 3 movie of the year, taking in about $408 million domestically, and producing a global total of $686.5 million.
(''The Avengers,'' from Disney's Marvel Studios, was by far the No. 1 movie, taking in $623.4 million in North America, for a global total of $1.51 billion -- while ''The Dark Knight Rises,'' from Warner Brothers, was second, taking in $448.1 million, for a global total of $1.08 billion.)
''Skyfall,'' from Sony and Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, demonstrated how an aging franchise can be reinvigorated if new installments are actually worth seeing. ''Skyfall,'' which earned glowing reviews, has so far taken in $280 million in North America and $694.3 million overseas, making it one of the best-performing James Bond movies on record, even when adjusting for inflation.
It was a particularly lucrative year for Lions Gate Entertainment, which includes both the Lionsgate and Summit banners. Along with ''The Hunger Games,'' the company had ''The Twilight Saga: Breaking Dawn -- Part 2,'' which has so far generated $783 million in global ticket sales. According to Rentrak, a company that tracks box office data, Lions Gate, a small movie company that leapt forward with its acquisition of Summit Entertainment, will end the year as North America's fifth-largest distributor as measured by ticket sales, surpassing 20th Century Fox and Paramount.
MGM roared back to life after years of fiscal turmoil, including bankruptcy. Aside from ''Skyfall,'' MGM benefited from ''The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey,'' a coproduction with Warner's New Line Cinema unit that was No. 1 over the weekend, taking in an estimated $36.7 million, for a new domestic total of $149.9 million, according to Hollywood.com.
But most movie companies had a mixed year.
In a display of marketing strength, nine of Sony's movies were No. 1 at the box office. Sony also successfully reintroduced its most important franchise with ''The Amazing Spider-Man,'' taking in $752.2 million worldwide. Still, high costs for movies like ''Men in Black III'' and flops like ''Total Recall'' ate into profitability.
Disney found a blockbuster new franchise with ''The Avengers,'' but also took a $200 million write-down for the big-budget science-fiction epic ''John Carter.''
Similarly, Universal Pictures had steep losses from its costly ''Battleship'' but found new franchises in the raunchy ''Ted,'' which sold $502 million in tickets worldwide, and ''Snow White and the Huntsman,'' which took in nearly $400 million.
Family movies, which have been Hollywood's most reliable genre of recent years, showed some troubling weakness. DreamWorks Animation scored a big hit with ''Madagascar 3: Europe's Most Wanted,'' which took in a global total of $742.1 million, but the company suffered a rare dud in ''Rise of the Guardians,'' which has so far taken in a relatively paltry $222.6 million worldwide.
Pixar's ''Brave,'' Sony's ''Hotel Transylvania'' and ''Dr. Seuss' The Lorax,'' from Universal, were all strong. But Disney's black and white film ''Frankenweenie'' flopped. And an independently produced movie, ''The Oogieloves in the Big Balloon Adventure,'' was one of the biggest box-office disappointments of all time, costing about $55 million to make and market and taking in a grand total of $1.1 million.
Families are also balking at paying for higher-price 3-D tickets, in part because the glasses do not fit little faces, analysts say. This year, studios released 28 major films in 3-D, down from 34 last year, according to BoxOfficeMojo.com.
How did movie stars and elite directors fare in 2012?
Johnny Depp took a beating in the disappointing ''Dark Shadows,'' as did that film's director, Tim Burton, who was also behind ''Frankenweenie.'' It was another year, another dud for Julia Roberts, who starred in the lackluster ''Mirror Mirror.'' And Taylor Kitsch, poised for stardom after his success in the television series ''Friday Night Lights,'' appeared in three failed movies in a five-month stretch: ''John Carter,'' ''Battleship'' and the smaller ''Savages.''
Still, Hollywood had a good year overall in the star department -- at least if you count the minting of new ones. Channing Tatum's fame skyrocketed because of hits like ''21 Jump Street'' and ''The Vow,'' both from Sony, and Warner's ''Magic Mike.'' Jennifer Lawrence's career spiked with ''The Hunger Games'' and an Oscar-contending performance in ''Silver Linings Playbook.'' And Jeremy Renner successfully took over Universal's ''Bourne'' franchise from Matt Damon. (Mr. Renner also appeared in ''The Avengers.'')
Benjamin Carlson, president of Fizziology, a company that monitors social media to advise movie studios, noted that ''it doesn't always take a big name to get audiences talking.'' Little movies like Fox's ''Chronicle,'' which cost $12 million to make and took in $126.6 million worldwide, benefited from early online chatter.
''Sometimes,'' Mr. Carlson said, ''success comes from creating something that audiences respond to and previewing it early and often.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, Chris Hemsworth, left, and Chris Evans in ''The Avengers,'' the top-grossing film this year. Above, Jennifer Lawrence in ''The Hunger Games,'' which was No. 3. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ZADE ROSENTHAL/MARVEL STUDIOS AND PARAMOUNT PICTURES
MURRAY CLOSE/LIONSGATE) (B1)
Mark Wahlberg, top, in ''Ted.'' Above left, Cary Elwes in ''The Oogieloves in the Big Balloon Adventure,'' which flopped. Above right, Daniel Craig and Javier Bardem in ''Skyfall.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNIVERSAL PICTURES
KENN VISELMAN PRESENTS
 FRANCOIS DUHAMEL/COLUMBIA PICTURES AND METRO GOLDWYN MAYER) (B3) CHARTS: Hollywood Comeback: Ticket sales and box-office receipts are both up more than 5 percent in North American movies theaters this year after two years of declines. (Source: Hollywood.com) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TICKET SALES (91%); FILM (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (89%); US LABOR DAY (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (76%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (76%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ANIMATION (71%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (71%); CHRISTMAS (69%)

COMPANY: IMAX CORP (92%); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (80%)

TICKER: IMX (TSX) (92%); IMAX (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (92%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (92%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (80%)

PERSON: JENNIFER LAWRENCE (79%); DAVID GEFFEN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) NORTH AMERICA (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); CHINA (64%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



839 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1328 words

HEADLINE: Search For Deal In Fiscal Impasse Shifts To Senate

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Jackie Calmes contributed reporting from Washington, and Nathaniel Popper from New York.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With little more than a week for lawmakers to avert huge tax increases and spending cuts, attention is turning from the gridlocked House to the Senate, where some Republicans on Sunday endorsed President Obama's call for a partial deal to insulate most Americans from the tax increases but defer a resolution on spending.
Senators Kay Bailey Hutchison of Texas and Johnny Isakson of Georgia, both Republicans, implored Senate leaders to reach an accommodation with Mr. Obama when Congress returns on Thursday, even if that meant that taxes would go up for those with high incomes and that spending cuts would be put off.
Mrs. Hutchison, appearing on the CBS program ''Face the Nation,'' said the tax cuts signed into law by President George W. Bush should be extended ''at a reasonable salary level.'' 
''We can't let taxes go up on working people in this country,'' she said, backing Mr. Obama's calls for a stripped-down temporary measure. ''It is going to be a patch because, in four days, we can't solve everything.''
Speaker John A. Boehner's failed attempt on Thursday to attract enough Republican support in the House for legislation that would have prevented tax increases on income below $1 million left little chance for a ''grand bargain'' on deficit reduction.
It also shifted the action to the Senate as the last hope to stop more than half a trillion dollars in tax increases and across-the-board spending cuts from kicking in on Jan. 1. The president urged senators to take up legislation extending the Bush-era tax cuts on income under $250,000 and preventing the expiration of unemployment benefits, while delaying the defense and domestic spending cuts to allow negotiations on a deficit deal continue.
''The fact that the House Republicans spent a week wasting time we didn't have has greatly exacerbated the problem,'' said Dan Pfeiffer, Mr. Obama's communications director.
The hope is that the less polarized Senate will be different from the House. It is run by Democrats and includes several Republicans who are openly backing a deal.
''The president's statement is right,'' Mr. Isakson said Sunday on the ABC program ''This Week.'' ''No one wants taxes to go up on the middle class. I don't want them to go up on anybody, but I'm not in the majority in the United States Senate, and he's the president of the United States.''
''The truth of the matter is, if we do fall off the cliff after the president is inaugurated, he'll come back, propose just what he proposed yesterday in leaving Washington, and we'll end up adopting it,'' Mr. Isakson continued. ''But why should we put the markets in such turmoil and the people in such misunderstanding or lack of confidence? Why not go ahead and act now?''
Democratic leaders say they will move forward on legislation this week only if Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, can assure them that it will not be filibustered and that once it is passed Mr. Boehner will bring it to a vote in the House.
Mr. McConnell has played the role of Congressional deal closer before. Last year, he engineered a way to raise the nation's statutory borrowing limit that satisfied Republicans and Democrats alike. He also threw his weight behind an extension of the expiring two-percentage-point cut in the payroll tax, even after House Republicans tried to block it.
But in this case, neither he nor the junior members of his leadership have given any indication that they will intervene.
''It's hard to overstate how little is going on,'' said a senior Democratic leadership aide in the Senate, indicating what most lawmakers say in private: the country is likely to miss the Jan. 1 deadline.
Investors are anticipating a turbulent week in the markets if the White House and Congress continue their standoff. Last Friday, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell nearly 1 percent as pessimism mounted over the prospect of any deal being reached.
Republican leaders in both chambers of Congress appear stymied by a conservative wing that will not tolerate a vote on legislation that even tacitly allows taxes to rise. Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, said the minority leader could not declare by fiat that a bill could be presented for a simple majority vote with no threat of a filibuster. That would require the consent of every Republican, and Mr. Stewart gave no indication that Mr. McConnell would seek it.
Asked if Republicans might filibuster the president's backup plan, Senator John Barrasso of Wyoming, a member of the Republican leadership, said on ''Fox News Sunday'': ''I just don't think this is going to solve the problems -- it actually doesn't solve the problems. We have a spending problem in this country.''
Besides, Mr. Stewart said, Democrats have yet to detail the legislation they want a vote on. The Senate passed legislation in July to extend expiring income tax rates on income under $250,000, but divided Democrats could not agree on a new level for the estate tax, which is also scheduled to rise in January, nor did they include a provision to stave off $100 billion in across-the-board cuts to defense and domestic programs next year.
Mr. Obama, speaking to reporters Friday, left critical details out of his description of the plan he wants Congress to pass. Although he favors allowing the estate tax rate of 35 percent on inheritances over $5 million to rise to 45 percent on estate values over $3.5 million, for example, he did not say how such taxes should be treated as part of his stopgap fiscal plan. If nothing is done, the estate tax will jump to the Clinton-era level, 55 percent, on estate values over $1 million.
Nor did the president say what he wanted to do about expired business tax provisions, like the research and development tax credit, which is scheduled to disappear on Jan. 1. He gave no instructions about a long-delayed law that, absent Congressional action this week, would sharply cut reimbursements for physicians treating Medicare patients, starting next month.
''What is it, exactly, that we're supposed to respond to or work with?'' Mr. Stewart said. Referring to the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, Mr. Stewart continued: ''Reid is the majority leader. Maybe for once he could propose something that he actually thinks could pass.''
The impending cuts were set in motion last year when the Budget Control Act ended an impasse over raising the nation's borrowing limit with a deal designed to hurt both parties if they did not strike an agreement later on. A committee came up with at least $1.2 trillion in cuts over 10 years that would come automatically, half to national security and half to domestic programs.
The measure that Mr. Obama and Democratic leaders are considering would contain all the provisions of a tax bill that the Senate passed in July, according to a Democrat familiar with the discussions. That bill included an adjustment to the alternative minimum tax -- a parallel income tax that is designed to make sure the affluent do not escape taxation but that is increasingly hitting the middle class -- as well as several tax credits for middle- and low-income workers that are also due to expire.
Both Mr. Boehner and Mr. McConnell are dealing with rising pressure from the right. The conservative Web site Breitbart.com stoked passions in conservative circles when it reported that a handful of Republicans were considering a challenge to Mr. Boehner's speakership when the House votes on Jan. 3 to elect a speaker for the 113th Congress. Boehner critics took to Twitter to keep up the pressure on him not to return to negotiations with Mr. Obama.
With Mr. McConnell's own re-election bid coming in 2014, Democrats are worried that he will do nothing to shift the anger onto himself -- especially if the speaker has no intention of bringing a Senate-passed fiscal bill to the floor before the end of the year.
''The ball is not moving along,'' said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Democratic leaders say they will move ahead on a bill only if the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell, center, assures them that it will not be filibustered. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSHUA ROBERTS/REUTERS) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHNNY ISAKSON (77%); KAY BAILEY HUTCHISON (72%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



840 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: One Woman's War on Debt Gains Steam

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Maya MacGuineas has been ringing alarms about the nation's growing debt for 15 years, imagining a day when a president and a Congress might finally work together to curb deficit spending. After watching President Obama and Speaker John A. Boehner once again come close to agreeing on a plan, only to see a deal slip away, she is troubled but undeterred.
''It's so bad out there that there's a question as to whether Washington can govern anymore,'' Ms. MacGuineas said, sitting in the Capitol after briefing a group of legislators. ''We want a deal to happen, and want it to happen in a bipartisan way, because otherwise it's not going to stick.''
Ms. MacGuineas, a budget expert who has advised Republican and Democratic lawmakers, is the face of the Campaign to Fix the Debt, a nonpartisan phalanx of chief executives, politicians and economic experts with $43 million to spend on efforts to pressure lawmakers to broker a deal. 
A wisecracking, self-deprecating, third-generation Washingtonian, Ms. MacGuineas has spent years issuing forceful warnings about threats to the solvency of Social Security and to the pristine bond rating of American debt, often using Washington dinner parties as her soap box.
''For some reason, in Washington, you can't talk about the budget except over food,'' quipped Alice Rivlin of the Brookings Institution, who is a part of the Fix the Debt campaign.
Ms. MacGuineas has worked in politics, advising Senator John McCain of Arizona on Social Security during his 2000 campaign for the presidency. But she describes herself as a political independent and has spent most of her career at Washington's nonpartisan research houses, including Brookings, the New America Foundation and the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget.
''For the longest time, nobody cared, nobody listened,'' she said. ''It was 15 years of irrelevancy.''
Two years ago, things changed. With the country adding more than a trillion dollars a year to its debt, more members of Congress became interested in budget data and advice, Ms. MacGuineas said. Corporate leaders and the American public also began tuning in to the looming debt problem.
The Campaign to Fix the Debt started to come together at a salon dinner held in the backyard of Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia, in the fall of 2011. An influential group of economic, political and business leaders -- including the former Federal Reserve chairman Alan Greenspan and Mark Bertolini, the chief executive of the Aetna insurance company -- huddled in a too-small tent in the pouring rain.
Maybe it was the fact that the 60 guests were mashed together, Mr. Warner said. Maybe it was the generous pours of wine. But the dinner took on the impassioned feeling of a ''tent revival,'' he said.
''It was Democrats and Republicans, members of the House and Senate, saying, 'I'm ready to do what it takes,' '' Mr. Warner said. Indra Nooyi, the chief executive of PepsiCo, at one point announced that America needed to ''get its swagger back.''
After the dinner, Ms. MacGuineas felt primed for action and set out to raise $3 million for a nonpartisan campaign to push Congress to get a deal done, once and for all. She has ended up with 14 times that amount and is now helping to run the campaign -- which is intended to fold in a year or two, if Congress makes progress -- out of space in the New America Foundation's offices.
She also ended up with an all-star cast. Erskine B. Bowles and Alan K. Simpson, who led the president's debt commission, are cited as co-founders. The chief executives of JPMorgan, BlackRock, Boeing, Cisco, Honeywell, General Electric and other companies have signed on.
In recent months, Fix the Debt has pressed White House officials and members of Congress in face-to-face meetings. Its policy team has responded to questions from reporters and legislative staffs. It has opened 17 state-level operations and undertaken a public-relations campaign, including national television advertisements.
After two decades of being ''obsessed'' with the country's long-term debt problem, Ms. MacGuineas said that at this point any deal that could get bipartisan backing and avoid big tax increases and spending cuts at the beginning of January might be the right one. But while Fix the Debt has not advocated for a specific solution, it has pushed for a ''balanced'' plan, which is Washington-speak for one that includes significant entitlement cuts as well as tax increases.
It describes Social Security solvency as a long-term goal, even though many Democrats say that the program, which has a dedicated financing stream from payroll taxes, should not be a part of the broader debt negotiations.
Thus it has drawn critics, particularly on the left. Many, for instance, say that the campaign is really an effort by corporate titans to push for deeper cuts to social programs instead of tax increases for them. Others say that ''balance'' means making fewer revenue concessions and more spending concessions than is necessary.
''Fix the Debt is pointing the finger at social safety net costs while pocketing billions in defense spending,'' Kevin Connor, director of the Public Accountability Initiative, a government watchdog group devoted to ''researching the 1 percent,'' said in a written statement. ''They pretend to care about the deficit, but at the end of the day they are really just looking out for the tax and spending policies that pad their bottom line.''
Members of the group rejected that assessment. ''Nonsense,'' Ms. Rivlin said. ''There isn't an agenda except to get the deal done and the problem solved.''
Mr. Bowles said that a deal big enough to solve the problem was never going to make everyone happy. ''My mama, she's said she's very proud of me for reducing the deficit,'' said Mr. Bowles, who was chief of staff to President Bill Clinton. ''But she also said, 'Don't touch my Medicare!' That's the way a lot of us are. It's fine to bring down the deficit, but don't do it in a way that influences me.''
With negotiations again faltering, Ms. MacGuineas has dashed from meeting to meeting, conference call to conference call, to keep up the pressure. She told her staff to cancel their vacations for the holiday season if they could. She is sending her husband and school-age children out of town for the holidays without her.
Mr. Warner said that the chances of a deal seemed slim, but that Fix the Debt would keep pushing. ''If we could turn this into the equivalent of a war-bond campaign, where we're asking everybody do their part for the country?'' he said. ''I think this campaign, Fix the Debt, has the potential to become that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Maya MacGuineas has spent years warning about threats to the solvency of Social Security and to the rating of American debt. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL DEBT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); BONDS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%)

COMPANY: AETNA INSURANCE CO OF AMERICA (51%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: MARK WARNER (77%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); JOHN BOEHNER (57%); JOHN MCCAIN (57%); ALAN GREENSPAN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



841 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Latitude)

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 532 words

HEADLINE: The Betrayal of Russian Orphans

BYLINE: MASHA GESSEN


HIGHLIGHT: The Russian Parliament retaliates against U.S. sanctions targeting people suspected in the death of a Russian whistleblower -- by blocking the adoption of Russian babies by Americans. 

 BODY:
MOSCOW - Last week was a terrible week to be a Russian and a great week to be a journalist. From my point of view as a journalist, there was drama, suspense and even a bit of comedy. From my point of view as a Russian, there was nothing but tragedy and shame. 
Last week, the Russian Parliament banned Americans from adopting children from Russia. It did this to retaliate against a U.S. ban on entry visas and financial transactions by a group of Russian officials believed to be implicated in the death of the auditor Sergei Magnitsky in a Moscow jail in 2009. The ban was signed into law by President Barack Obama on Friday, Dec. 14. 
It makes little sense to keep Russian kids in orphanages in order to teach the United States a lesson, but there is apparently nothing else Russian lawmakers can think to deny the Americans quickly and easily.
The Duma, the lower house of Parliament, first took up the bill last Monday. As a Russian (and also an American and an adoptive parent), I felt like throwing up. As a journalist and an editor, I had to plan coverage. I asked a star reporter to work on a piece that would take a couple of days to complete. The duty editor objected: "There is no way they are going to vote for an outright ban."
I hesitated. I have not been in my current job very long, and I worry about making the wrong call. Was I wrong to assign a story that would be outdated before it was complete, if the Duma's threat was so much hot air? The facts of the matter were: Americans have not been adopting that many kids from Russia - but these are often sick and disabled children, who would never find a family in Russia. Would the Duma really be willing to sacrifice these kids to make a point? As a Russian, I desperately did not want to believe this; as a journalist I was sure this was exactly what was going to happen. I assigned the story.
The Duma approved the adoption ban on Wednesday. We posted the story I had assigned on Thursday morning. That afternoon, President Vladimir Putin gave a four-and-a-half-hour press conference during which he answered half a dozen questions about the adoption bill. He did not denounce it. It now appears certain to become law. 
At social occasions over the weekend, I had the same conversation perhaps a dozen times. My interlocutors - some Russians and others not, some journalists and others not - kept repeating the same thing: First, they had not believed Parliament would vote to hold Russian orphans hostage; second, they had hoped against hope that Putin would rebuke them and set things right by refusing to sign the bill. I asked each of them why they had thought so. I heard a dozen thoughtful and regretful responses that boiled down to admitting a stubborn desire to hope for the best even in the worst of times - even in the face of pure, undisguised evil.
I understand that desire, both as a citizen and as a journalist. But I suspect that it's exactly what allows pure, undisguised evil to thrive - right here, right now, as we sip wine and debate whether things are really as bad as they seem.

        
For the Love of Country
        
The Last Days of an Honest Man
        
Remembering Politkovskaya
        
A Call From The Kremlin
        
The Shame of Putin's Courts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); ORPHANS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ADOPTION (90%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CHILDREN (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (76%); ADOPTION LAW (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); APPROVALS (70%) Adoptions; Embargoes and Economic Sanctions; Law and Legislation; Legislatures and Parliaments; Orphans and Orphanages; Russia; Sergei L Magnitsky; Vladimir V Putin; Magnitsky, Sergei L; Putin, Vladimir V; Europe

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (89%); BARACK OBAMA (54%) Magnitsky, Sergei L; Putin, Vladimir V

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (77%) Russia

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



842 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 802 words

HEADLINE: Austerity for Posterity

BYLINE: NANCY FOLBRE


HIGHLIGHT: An economist asks why pro-family voices do not offer more support for public spending to benefit parents and children. 

 BODY:
Nancy Folbre is an economics professor at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst. She recently edited and contributed to "For Love and Money: Care Provision in the United States." 
Whether Democrats and Republicans come to budgetary agreement before the end of the year, it seems likely that some Americans are going to be thrown off a fiscal cliff. Even President Obama's proposals call for cuts in discretionary spending that will disproportionately affect low-income children. 
The chasm between pro-family rhetoric and anti-family policies is widening. We are told to raise more children in order to prevent the aging of our population. We are told that education is the key to national economic success in this "age of human capital." But what we see is a growing political effort to reduce public spending on children. 
As Eduardo Porter recently explained, proposed cuts to federal spending will leave government as little more "than a heavily armed pension plan with a health insurer on the side" - not an entity likely to offer a helping hand to families struggling to support and educate the next generation.
Provisions now teetering on the edge of possible elimination include those that increased eligibility for the child tax credit and the earned income tax credit, which augment the after-tax income of families with children. Funds for Head Start, Early Head Start and child-care assistance will almost certainly be squeezed. Cuts in federal support for college attendance (both Pell grants and tax breaks) are likely to kick in, worsening student debt.

The probable cuts come on top of increased economic stress for those in charge of posterity. As the 2012 National Child and Youth Well-Being Index Report published by the Foundation for Child Development documents, the percentage of children living in families below the poverty line has increased over the last decade to 21.4 percent in 2011 from 15.6 percent in 2001.
More than a third of African-American and Hispanic children were living in poverty in 2011. 
The median income of families with children up to 18 years old has declined significantly - more than $6,000 in inflation-adjusted dollars - over the same time period. Parents are less likely to be securely employed than they were in 2001 and more susceptible to unemployment and involuntary part-time work. 
Investments in the early education of young children, widely considered to offer a high social and economic payback, are declining. After steady growth in the 1990s, the percentage of 3- and 4-year-olds enrolled in prekindergarten programs has failed to grow significantly for the last 10 years. 
The number of children enrolled dwindled in 12 states, including Arizona, which dropped state support for its program. Four states (Michigan, Minnesota, Missouri and Ohio) enrolled a smaller percentage of 4-year-olds than a decade ago.
Inflation-adjusted state spending on prekindergarten declined in 2010-11 for the first time ever. Inflation-adjusted spending per child also declined; partly as a result, several programs lost ground on quality standards (as monitored by site visits). 
A new report by Legal Momentum comparing single-parent families in the United States with those in 16 other high-income countries finds that the American families are more vulnerable to poverty despite putting in longer hours of market work. 
In other words, lack of effort to find paying jobs doesn't explain their plight. Rather, the jobs they find pay poorly, and lack of access to child care and sick leave makes it difficult for them to hold onto a good job when they find one. 
The level of social assistance for single parents (primarily through Temporary Assistance to Needy Families and the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program) varies from state to state in the United States but is consistently lower everywhere than in any of the comparison countries but for Spain. 
But while policies in many European countries are far more generous than those in the United States, they too are being crimped by austerity measures. A new report fromEurochild, an organization promoting the welfare and rights of children and young people, points to their growing vulnerability to cuts in social spending. 
One could make the case that our increasingly elderly voting population is worried more about its own economic future than that of the next generation. But it's not clear that voters have a clear picture of the intergenerational impact of public spending, as neither political leaders nor academic researchers have laid this out in clear detail. 
One thing is clear. Austerity that leads to reduced investments in children will reduce posterity's prosperity. 

        
The Microeconomics of Poverty Since 2007
        
Poverty Should Have Risen
        
Writing Off Poor Children
        
Discouraged Dads
        
Credits for Children

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); CHILDREN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (89%); POOR POPULATION (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (76%); CHILD POVERTY (76%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (76%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PENSION FUNDS (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (71%); PERSONAL DEBT (70%); AGING TRENDS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (65%) Child Care; Daily Economist; Democrats; early childhood education; earned income tax credit; employment; kindergarten; Nancy Folbre; Poverty; Republicans; TANF; Unemployment; Budgets and Budgeting; Children and Childhood; Education (Pre-School); Families and Family Life; States (US); Tax Credits, Deductions and Exemptions; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



843 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 24, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Bond Vigilantes and the Power of Three

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: No way to get us to the Greek outcome. 

 BODY:
Matthew Yglesias picks up on a point I've tried to make at some length recently: the popular story about how an attack by bond vigilantes can cause an interest rate spike and turn America into Greece, Greece I tell you, is incoherent. (Here's a 2010 example from Alan Greenspan -- the piece in which he declares it "regrettable" that the vigilantes haven't yet attacked, but grudgingly concedes that low rates might persist "well into next year", that is, into 2011. So what has he learned from the failure of his prophecy? Nothing, of course). It's not just that there have so far been no signs of the bond vigilantes; it's that even if for some reason the vigilantes did attack, it's very hard to see how they could cause a recession in a country that retains its own currency and doesn't have large amounts of debt denominated in foreign currency.
I've been trying to think about other ways to make this point, and also to help people understand the interest rate fluctuations we have actually experienced; here's one stab at it. 
Think of a simplified world in which there are three kinds of assets: short-term securities, long-term government bonds, and foreign assets, as shown schematically here:
Individual investors can shuffle their portfolios among these three assets; however, asset prices will rise or fall to match supply and demand for each asset. What are these asset prices? Well, there are three prices that might do the job: short-term interest rates, long-term interest rates, and the exchange rate. At any given time, however, one of these is fixed, leaving it up to the other two to do the adjusting. Which two? That depends on the monetary regime, as I'll now explain.
The United States has independent monetary policy and a floating exchange rate. The Fed uses its independence to set the short-term interest rate, basically at zero these days. So long-term rates and the exchange rate do the adjusting.
Now, there have been some sizable fluctuations in long-term rates over the past few years, and every time those rates have gone up there have been press reports claiming that they are about debt fears. In reality, however, it's quite clear that the driving force has been fluctuating optimism about the prospects for recovery, and hence for an eventual rise in short-term rates.
If you think short-term rates are heading up, then other things equal long-term bonds become less attractive; better to park your money and wait for better yields. So the desired portfolio shift looks like this:
In such a case long-term rates rise - but because this rise is driven by greater optimism about the future, it's hard to see how it can have a contractionary effect on the economy.
Incidentally, this seems to me to be a big problem with the story Brad DeLong tells about bond vigilantes in the very early 1990s. He argues that the wide gap between short-term and long-term rates reflected market expectations that deficits would eventually cause higher inflation, which in turn would cause the Fed to raise rates. This could be true. But why would such expectations be a drag on the economy? Yes, nominal rates would be higher than otherwise; but real rates would, if anything, be lower. It's not at all easy to tell a coherent story in which the effect of future expected deficits on today's interest rates is contractionary - I know, because I've tried.
Now, the big fear now is that we'll have a quite different type of vigilante attack, in which fear of default leads to a general flight from our nation's assets, sort of like this:
How does this play out?
Well, if you're Greece, the exchange rate is fixed - or actually nonexistent, because you don't have your own currency. So what happens is that both short-term and long-term interest rates rise. How can short-term rates shoot up, when there is also a relationship between the quantity of money and short-term rates (which is why central banks can peg these rates)? The answer is that as funds flee the country, the money supply plunges. Here's what happened to Greek M1:
Source.
But that can't happen in the United States, where the Fed retains control over the money supply and of short-term interest rates. So what would happen instead would be a plunge in the exchange rate. And this would actually have an expansionary effect on the U.S. economy.
The point is that the analogy with Greece is just completely wrong; the difference in our monetary positions means that even if the bond vigilantes did attack, they would probably help, not hurt, our economy in the short run.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); PUBLIC POLICY (65%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2012



844 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 928 words

HEADLINE: In Hong Kong, Santa Comes to Town in a Blaze of Lights

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- For the past few weeks, Santa Claus, looking cheerful and surrounded by twinkling stars and ornaments, has been dancing on the sides of skyscrapers.
The images, rendered in tens of thousands of lights across Hong Kong, are varied: in one part of town, Santa is riding a dolphin; not far away, giant beribboned parcels decorate the exterior of another building, blinking gently many floors above ground.
Chinese culture adores lights, and the Hong Kong skyline has some of the biggest, brashest and most colorful in the world, year-round. Shop fronts, signposts, entire buildings are lit up -- some with undulating and flickering effects -- as the sun sets each evening, enveloping the entire city in an orange glow. 
But this time of year, the spectacle ratchets up several notches. Out come vast, multicolored, complex designs that span many floors and make the Rockefeller Center in New York and Oxford Street in London pale by comparison. Frolicking reindeer, bobble-hatted snowmen, enormous Christmas trees adorn dozens of buildings, sometimes to startling effect.
The man behind many of these images is Terence Wong, who trained as an electrician and once did stage lighting work for theaters. Thirty years ago, Mr. Wong was asked by a Hong Kong property developer to add a bit of seasonal pizazz to a new complex of office buildings in Tsim Sha Tui East, an area that was then off the beaten track. He has not looked back.
''It is my passion,'' Mr. Wong, 54, said in an interview in his office, which is filled with files and lighting accessories. ''I never want to stop.''
The first job involved simple stars suspended from the tops of buildings. Over the years, Mr. Wong has made the displays ever more complex, as he and his workers have learned how to affix strings of light bulbs to the glass facades of buildings using window-cleaning platforms.
The displays, Mr. Wong said, typically cost anywhere between 20,000 and 100,000 Hong Kong dollars, or about $2,600 to $13,000, depending on the size and intricacy of the image. But for many building owners, sprucing up exteriors is as much a part of the holiday season as tree lights are for operators of shopping centers or private citizens in Western cultures.
Downturns in the economy, Mr. Wong said, do not prompt building owners to hold back on this expenditure. When an epidemic of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, hit Hong Kong in 2003, causing tourism to evaporate and the economy to buckle, building owners actually spent more on the displays, Mr. Wong said.
Likewise, spending this year has not changed, even though the Hong Kong economy, hit by the global downturn and slower growth in China, is expected to have grown just 1.2 percent in 2012. That is down from 4.9 percent last year and 6.8 percent the year before that. The displays are typical of the resilience in consumer spending in Hong Kong, where unemployment remains low -- 3.4 percent, according to the latest government figures.
Light displays are deeply ingrained in Chinese folk culture. Lanterns have been objects of artistic expression and status symbols for centuries, as have the elaborate fireworks displays that feature in major celebrations to this day. In the same vein, prominent buildings are brightly lit all over China at night, often changing colors every few seconds, while light shows are a popular form of public entertainment.
In Hong Kong, various factors have given the phenomenon an extra intensity. Unlike cities on the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong has sizable Christian and Western communities, so Christmas and Jan. 1 join the Lunar New Year as important festivals.
Then there is the sheer commercialism of Hong Kong, which derives a large part of its wealth from millions of Chinese tourists. ''For every mainland Chinese who visits Singapore or New York today, there are 20 or more who go to Hong Kong,'' Donna Kwok, an economist at HSBC, said in a research report this month. By 2015, these visitors are expected to spend 55 billion dollars, equivalent to one-third of Hong Kong's gross domestic product, she added.
Attractions like the city's nightly light-and-laser show, which involves more than 40 buildings and is organized by the Hong Kong tourism board, are an important draw, and visitors flock in their thousands to see it each evening.
The holiday bonanza of decorative lights on buildings lasts about three months. Once Christmas and the Western calendar New Year are over, the displays are changed to focus on the Lunar New Year celebrations, which mark the high point of the Chinese calendar and fall in January or February. ''Merry X-mas'' wishes are replaced with Chinese characters wishing good luck and wealth for the coming year. Santa Clauses morph into Chinese money gods. Symbols of fortune and happiness replace stars and snowflakes.
Mr. Wong's illuminations started going up in late November and will stay up until a week or two after the start of the Year of the Snake, on Feb. 10.
Mr. Wong, however, stays busy year-round, looking after the manufacture of the strings of light bulbs and other equipment he needs and preparing the designs for the next season. He never recycles old images, he said, but designs three new proposals for each decoration job that Shun Sze Lighting, the company he founded in 1976, bids for.
Given that Shun Sze does about two dozen buildings per year, that is a lot of drawings -- but Mr. Wong does not seem to mind.
''Every day, I think about Christmas -- all year,'' he beamed. ''Santa Claus is coming -- every day!''
Joanne Lam contributed reporting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A display at the Empire Center in the Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Hong Kong. (B1)
Lights in the Admiralty district of Hong Kong Island. Such displays reflect Chinese folk culture, as well as the influence of Christian and Western communities.
 Terence Wong began creating his light displays 30 years ago. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX HOFFORD FOR THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (71%); RETAILERS (70%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); SARS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (56%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) HONG KONG (97%); CHINA (93%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



845 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Antigovernment Graffiti Restored, Courtesy of Government

BYLINE: By MALIA WOLLAN

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- For decades, visitors to Alcatraz Island had trouble deciphering the faded red graffiti on the old prison's rusted water tower.
Then last month, the National Park Service unveiled a rebuilt water tower with bold red letters reading, ''Peace and Freedom. Welcome. Home of the Free Indian Land.'' The freshly painted inscription is an exact replica of graffiti left during the 19 months when Native American activists commandeered the wind-scoured island four decades ago and claimed it as their own.
''Normally, the federal government is not in the business of preserving graffiti,'' said Alexandra Picavet, a spokeswoman for the National Park Service, who said that to her knowledge this was the only example of restored, modern-day graffiti. ''The water tower was the occupation's most outwardly focused message to the world and it is an important part of the island's history,'' she said. 
In the early morning of Nov. 20, 1969, some 80 Native Americans sailed to Alcatraz and set up camp. They would stay on the craggy outcropping until federal marshals removed them on June 11, 1971. The group's demands included establishing a Native American university and cultural center.
''We will purchase said Alcatraz Island for $24 in glass beads and red cloth, a precedent set by the white man's purchase of a similar island about 300 years ago,'' read their proclamation. That other island was, of course, Manhattan, bought from Native Americans by the Dutch in 1626.
Soon after their arrival, the group found buckets of terra-cotta-colored paint, believed to be left over from the nearby Golden Gate Bridge. Some took to spelling out declarations of native sovereignty and painting raised red fists on the island's dilapidated prison buildings, including the water tower.
The park service spent most of a year and $1.5 million restoring the 250,000-gallon tank and 103-foot steel tower. The task included carefully matching the graffiti's paint and inviting Native Americans to participate in tracing over the final block letters. Park service employees say that in the month since the project's completion they have noticed a significant rise in the number of tourists who see the graffiti and ask questions about it.
Still, most of the 1.4 million visitors who come to the island each year come for the intrigue of the federal prison years. From 1934 to 1963, the prison held some of the nation's most notorious criminals, including mob boss James (Whitey) Bulger, George (Machine Gun) Kelly, and the ''Birdman of Alcatraz,'' Robert Stroud. ''Most people don't know anything about our history here,'' said Eloy Martinez, 72, a member of the Southern Ute tribe. ''They just come over here to get their pictures taken next to Al Capone's cell.''
For more than a year, Mr. Martinez, his wife, Lesee, an Apache, and his 4-year-old son lived in a cell overlooking the island's dock. Now retired and living in Oakland, Mr. Martinez regularly boards a boat to Alcatraz to wander the grounds, point out the graffiti and answer tourists' questions.
For its part, the National Park Service, which took over stewardship of the island in 1972, has made considerable efforts to preserve evidence of the Native American takeover. Last year, the park installed a permanent multimedia exhibition of photographs and videos from the occupation.
''The occupation of Alcatraz launched an unparalleled wave of modern day American Indian activism,'' said Troy Johnson, professor of American Indian studies at California State University, Long Beach, and author of several books about those 19 months on Alcatraz.
In the decade after the takeover, Native American activists occupied more than 70 other locations, including the Bureau of Indian Affairs headquarters in Washington. ''The occupiers awoke the government and the American people to native issues in this country,'' said Mr. Johnson.
The takeover also served to connect young Native American activists from dozens of tribes.
''I'm an urban Indian not a reservation Indian,'' said Sacheen Littlefeather, 66, who spent time on Alcatraz during the spring of 1971. ''I learned so much about cultural traditions being on that island with Indian people from all over the country.''
Ms. Littlefeather joined a group of Native American college students who, on weekends, would haul in fresh water and food on a resupply boat called the Clearwater, purchased with money donated by the rock band Creedence Clearwater Revival.
Every year, Native Americans from across the country -- including many of the original occupiers -- still gather on Alcatraz for sunrise ceremonies on Thanksgiving and Columbus Day. But Mr. Martinez likes to be on the island on ordinary days too, when thousands of tourists disembark with iPhones aloft and cameras slung across their chests.
Mostly, he talks about history. But sometimes, he cannot help but tell passers-by that many Native Americans still face crippling poverty, high unemployment and a lack of resources and opportunities, just as they did in 1969.
''Truthfully,'' said Mr. Martinez. ''I thought more would have changed by now.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The newly rebuilt water tower. ''Most people don't know anything about our history here,'' said Eloy Martinez, 72, who helped occupy the island. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 In November 1969, American Indians played ballgames outside the prison wall during their occupation of Alcatraz Island in San Francisco Bay. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (90%); NATIONAL PARKS (90%); PRISONS (89%); GRAFFITI (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); MARSHALS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (66%); ORGANIZED CRIME (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL PARK SERVICE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



846 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; POSTINGS | RECENT ENTRIES FROM OUR BLOGS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: 

BYLINE: By SUSAN SELIGER and LUIZ ROCHA

 BODY:
The New Old Age
Susan Seliger posted to nytimes.com/newoldage:
George and Gracie (let's call them that because using their real names would make them even unhappier than they already appear to be) are in their 80s and have been married for more than 65 years. Until recently they seemed to ride the waves that are inevitable in any marriage that spans nearly seven decades; through good and bad, they were partners and best friends.
But lately -- ever since her hospitalization and his fall -- they have been arguing more bitterly than usual, criticizing each other, withdrawing from each other, and generally making each other more miserable, more often than ever before. 
This kind of degenerative relationship is not uncommon among the elderly in even the happiest marriages, marriage therapists and geriatricians say. But that is small comfort to the couple in the middle of the maelstrom or the children who care for them.
If the tone or severity of the marital tensions seems new, then it is important to find out why. The causes could be mental or physical, doctors say.
On the mental front, increased anger and fighting could be one of the first signs of mild cognitive impairment, a precursor of dementia or Alzheimer's, in one or both of the spouses, said Dr. Lisa Gwyther, director of the Duke Center for Aging Family Support Program and an associate professor in the department of psychiatry and behavioral sciences.
These early signs of cognitive decline can be subtle. Withdrawing from activities that used to give pleasure can be a telltale sign -- and can trigger anger and arguments. Suspicion and paranoia can also accompany mild cognitive decline and precipitate distrust and hurtful accusations.
But as harmful as mental decline can be for a marriage, it is just part of the equation.
Chronic illnesses, like diabetes, arthritis and heart disease, can have a strong negative effect on mood, said Dr. Linda Waite, director of the Center on Demography and Economics of Aging at NORC/University of Chicago.
The sheer exhaustion that can affect caregiving spouses is also bound to ''make them stressed and angry,'' Dr. Waite said. Not to mention guilty and resentful -- never a prescription for happy marital relations.
Scientist at Work
Luiz Rocha, the curator of ichthyology at the California Academy of Sciences who is studying the
endangered social wrasse in Belize, posted to nytimes.com/
scientistatwork:
Yesterday we woke up to very bad weather. But field time is precious, so we decided to set out to collect more lionfish.
On our way to the Pelican Keys, the rain got really heavy, and we had to stop the boat. I decided to do the dive where we were.
We started seeing lionfish -- lots of them. We collected a total of 13. As I was swimming back to the boat with my bag full of lionfish, a large wave pushed the bag toward my left leg, and two spines stung me. The pain is hard to describe.
The boat rushed back to Carrie Bow Key, and we used the only antidote available in this case: hot water.
It activates blood circulation and causes the venom to spread out and become diluted. It also breaks the venom down, further reducing its efficacy.
After about two hours, I was still in a lot of pain. But I knew that time in the digestive tract of the lionfish is precious.
As we started opening them, we started to notice how negative their impact in the ecosystem really is. They had juvenile wrasses, snappers, grunts and parrotfishes in their stomachs. And they also had something else: the social wrasse.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PREDATOR: A lionfish, an invasive species caught off the coast of Belize, where it is threatening the population of social wrasse. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUIZ ROCHA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARRIAGE (90%); AGING (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (87%); FISHES (84%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); GERIATRICS (78%); FAMILY (77%); ARTHRITIS (74%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); WEATHER (74%); DEMENTIA (74%); FAMILY SERVICES (73%); PSYCHIATRY (73%); COUPLE COUNSELING (72%); INTELLIGENCE & COGNITION (71%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (71%); CHRONIC DISEASES (70%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (69%); ZOOLOGY (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); HEART DISEASE (62%); DIABETES (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (52%) CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); ILLINOIS, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (72%); BELIZE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



847 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Weighing Costs and Competition

BYLINE: By FELICITY BARRINGER

 BODY:
LOS BANOS, Calif. -- The Morning Star Company's three plants in California emit roughly 200,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year -- about the same amount as the Pacific Island nation of Palau -- as they turn tomatoes into ketchup, spaghetti sauce and juice used by millions of consumers around the world.
Beginning Jan. 1, under the terms of a groundbreaking California environmental law known as AB 32, Morning Star and 350 other companies statewide will begin paying for those emissions, which trap heat and contribute to global warming.
Companies are trying to figure out how this will affect their bottom lines and have lobbied state regulators to minimize the costs. In the meantime they are weighing their options. Should they stay and adapt or move operations elsewhere? Should they retrofit and innovate to reduce emissions? Should they swallow the regulatory costs or pass them on to customers? 
Each company's calculus depends on its particular circumstance. Morning Star, a top producer in a $926 million industry, has to be near the tomato fields of California's Central Valley, so relocating was never an option. Its biggest question is how to handle the extra costs.
About 600 facilities with hefty emissions are covered by the Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006. Oil refiners, electric utilities and cement makers, whose greenhouse-gas output totals in the millions of metric tons annually, are the biggest. But over all, dozens of industries are affected.
In recent months, as the start date of the new cap-and-trade program neared, California regulators have fine-tuned the rules, industry by industry, to avoid imposing severe economic hardship while trying to keep the rules stringent. It is a delicate balance. Regulators do not want California companies to lose their competitive edge, because that could make other state governments reluctant to adopt this approach.
Cement plants near Los Angeles compete with plants across the Arizona border. State tomato processors control more than 95 percent of the American market, but they fear that the fast-growing Chinese sector could make inroads.
Officials in affected industries acknowledge they are struggling with how to proceed. As Meredith Fowlie, an economist at the University of California, Berkeley, explained, ''Their calculations have to be that we either sit here and emit and pay the cost of doing so, or alternatively we can look at options'' like paying for major capital improvements to reduce emissions.
The state's Air Resources Board is using an array of policies to reach its intended goal of reducing emissions to 1990 levels by 2020. It has tried to structure the cap-and-trade program to encourage industry investment in energy efficiency that could cut costs as well as lower emissions. Investing in energy efficiency may make sense for companies under California's rules, Dr. Fowlie said, ''but if they are making them before their competitors, that could be fatal.''
The rules are relatively simple for producers like Morning Star. At the end of 2014, they must present state-issued allowances -- one per metric ton of emissions -- for the greenhouse gases they emitted in 2013.
For the 200,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide emitted annually by Morning Star's three plants, the company is being awarded about 192,500 free allowances the first year; the company must buy the remainder on the open market. In the first allowance auction in November, the allowance price settled at $10.09 a ton, meaning in the first year Morning Star has to pay roughly $75,000 to cover its emissions.
But over the next five years, the number of free allowances will decrease sharply to encourage further emissions cuts. At current rates, that means Morning Star will have to buy 100,000 allowances for both 2017 and 2018, by which time the prices may have doubled or tripled in an open market. The company estimates the law will cost it an extra $20 million over the next seven years.
Nick Kastle, a company spokesman, said it would almost certainly pass on the new costs to makers of ketchup and frozen pizza, which would be likely to share the extra costs with consumers. ''People nationwide are going to be affected by AB 32,'' he said.
But many economists said they think such a cost-centric analysis ignores the jobs and economic activity that the law could generate. Emission and efficiency standards for cars, buildings and appliances in California over the last four decades have succeeded in cleaning the air, making residents' per-capita energy use rate among the lowest in the country and spurring innovations and new industries, like the one that arose around catalytic converters.
''It's almost a Darwinian point,'' said Matthew Kahn, an economist at the University of California, Los Angeles. While some companies' costs will no doubt rise, he said, the law creates moneymaking opportunities by forcing a rethinking of industrial processes.
For some industries, the options are limited. Cement cannot be made without releasing carbon dioxide as a byproduct, although engineers are trying to reduce the amount emitted. At least one new California company is experimenting with a process that captures and stores carbon that would otherwise be emitted.
Morning Star, praised for its management innovations, has also won respect for improving its energy efficiency through equipment retrofits over the years. ''If you have any ideas for efficiency,'' Mr. Kastle said, ''we'll look at them.''
''We deploy what we believe, based on the economics, are the most efficient tomato-processing facilities in the world,'' he said in an interview at the company's plant in Los Banos. ''And there are only two major costs in producing tomato paste: tomatoes and energy.''
He was standing at the center of the plant's steaming Emerald City-like pipes and towers, beneath a network of artificial watercourses along which 838 tons of bobbing, colorful fruit move through the factory each hour in harvest season.
To run the conveyor system and to heat and sterilize the product, the plant uses five boilers, the newest of which is four years old and the oldest, 30. Replacing a boiler costs millions of dollars.
Mr. Kastle said Morning Star's margins are too slim to absorb new regulatory costs. But he also worries about the consequence of passing them on. He knows that the California garlic industry lost half its market to Chinese imports in less than a decade, and notes that China's tomato-processing industry is on the rise.
The Air Resources Board is also wary of this competitive situation, which is why it has been flexible about adjusting its regulation.
Steven Cliff, the California regulator most familiar with food processing, said that companies need the free allocations in the early years. ''In a global marketplace you can't pass along all of your costs,'' he said.
More allocations go to industries that are at risk of leaving the state and emitting their pollution elsewhere or of ceding market share to foreign companies that are likely to be big emitters. The term of art for the problem is ''leakage.'' The more leakage, the less effective the California law will be at reducing greenhouse gas emissions over all.
State regulators consider cement manufacturers highly vulnerable to leaving the state, and food processors moderately vulnerable; both have been granted additional allowances to ease the transition.
For many economists, the crucial issue for now is not emissions but the creation of a viable market that sets a price on carbon. ''The bottom line of what we're trying to achieve here is a stable, predictable price of carbon,'' said Frank A. Wolak, a Stanford economist. ''If it's a stable price, people are more likely to say, 'I'll make the investment because at this price it is going to save me money.' ''
For now, Morning Star plans to stay here and pass on the new costs. Whether that changes the dynamics of its market is anyone's guess.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: To process tomatoes, Morning Star Company's factories in California emit about 200,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere each year. (B1)
 In harvest season, Morning Star Company's Los Banos, Calif., plant moves 838 tons of tomatoes an hour through its watercourses. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RAMIN RAHIMIAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMISSIONS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); CEMENT MFG (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (77%); LOBBYING (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); NATURAL RESOURCES (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (74%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); PALAU (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



848 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Key West Looks at Identity As It Plots Tourism Future

BYLINE: By LIZETTE ALVAREZ

 BODY:
KEY WEST, Fla. -- There is no better motto for this raucous southernmost point on the American map than ''One Human Family.''
That family is a trove of unlikely characters who have somehow managed to merrily coexist here: pirates, bootleggers, treasure hunters, fishermen, scoundrels, writers, artists, musicians, bohemians, Bahamians, Cubans, gays, rummies -- even a president (Harry S. Truman).
Missing from this list of inhabitants and sojourners is the cruise ship passenger, a category of visitor that has shaped modern Key West as much as the rest but remains unwelcomed by some and as polarizing as ever. Now, cruise ships and their day-tripping passengers are at the crux of a divisive debate over Key West's identity and its path to the future. 
Should Key West embrace its artsy, wealthier side and steer toward becoming a funkier version of Nantucket and the Hamptons? Or should it continue to stoke mass tourism, with its reliable stream of dollars but also its proliferating slogan-shouting T-shirt shops and trinket stores?
''I do recognize we need our cruise ships to help with the city budget,'' said Tony Falcone, a store owner and Key West resident since the 1970s who is not a fan of the cruise ships. ''But I want a balance. And I think the balance right now is leaning toward the cruise ship industry and away from the arts community.''
''We don't want to be known as a town that has sold our soul to the cruise ship industry,'' he added.
After much back and forth, the City Commission opted late this year to bow out of the politically treacherous decision and let voters take a first, tentative step toward deciding whether Key West will become an even bigger destination for cruise ships.
Residents will vote on a referendum next fall on whether to commission a three-year, $3 million feasibility study from the Army Corps of Engineers to analyze the pros and cons of widening the main channel that leads to Key West's three ports. The channel sits inside an environmentally sensitive federal marine sanctuary, which means any dredging would require Congressional approval. All of this guarantees that a widened channel would not be completed for at least a decade.
Widening the channel is a necessary step in accommodating the industry's latest and largest cruise ships, which require greater maneuverability to comfortably pull into Key West. If the channel is not widened, more of the larger ships will not stop in Key West. Larger ships run by Royal Caribbean Cruises already bypass Key West, a company spokeswoman said.
A drop in traffic would hurt the city's economy, at least in the short term, particularly the slice of Key West that caters to ship passengers. Business owners predict that some shops would close, tour operators would suffer and even big-box stores that sell to the ship's crew would take a hit. The city stands to lose jobs and at least $70 million in annual revenue and fees, cruise ship proponents say.
''There are a lot of people in this town who make a lot of money off of cruise ships,'' said Mark Rossi, a city commissioner and owner of Rick's and Durty Harry's Entertainment Complex, which is on Duval Street, the town's main drag, and does brisk business with passengers. ''It's a big boost to the economy.''
At the moment, 350 cruise ships stop in Key West each year, bringing about 837,000 passengers in 2011, a number that is expected to drop to 711,000 this year, according to a recent Chamber of Commerce presentation. Passengers spend an average of $84, chamber officials have said. On any given day, 1,900 to 6,000 passengers disembark, strolling over to Duval Street to eat, drink, take a trolley tour, visit the nearby sites and make purchases.
Some of these guests return to Key West for longer visits after those brief stops, business owners say.
But opponents are skeptical of the long-term benefits. They argue that dredging the channel would not only be expensive (about $36 million, according to the Army Corps of Engineers), but would also give rise to more cruise ship passengers, though the number is not expected to jump drastically.
Their fear, they add, is that larger ships would generate more ticky-tacky stores and party-hearty bars along Duval Street. This, in turn, would discourage visits from the kind of tourists who stay for days in high-priced hotels, spend more money and appreciate a more highbrow culture.
Many residents already lament that they steer clear of Duval Street, with its cruise ship crowd and copycat stores, because it is usually insufferable, a point that they say underscores an erosion of their quality of life.
In addition, expanding the channel has raised environmental concerns. It could disrupt endangered coral on an already diminished reef and disturb the water quality in the area, which is one of Key West's most precious assets, environmental groups say.
For opponents of dredging, next fall's referendum gives Key West an opportunity to swap mass tourism for a more select variety.
''The referendum opens up the whole cruise ship debate,'' said John Martini, a prominent sculptor who has lived in Key West since the 1970s and has long disliked the cruise ship traffic and its consequences. ''There's already too many people. Period. People are elbow to elbow, and there are guys holding 'Everything is $5' signs. I think Key West can support itself with higher-end business.''
''All of this degrades the brand,'' he added. ''Duval Street has deteriorated, and it continues to deteriorate.''
But the debate is often unvarnished.
Cruise ship supporters say there is more than a whiff of snobbery to the opposition.
''There are comments that are a little intolerant about cruise ship people who come from Middle America and get sunburned -- that doesn't sound like 'One Human Family' to me,'' said John Dolan-Heitlinger, who leads the Key West Seaport Alliance. ''What are we going to do, ask people to show their tax returns?''
Mr. Martini sees it another way. Key West residents are stewards of the city, its legacy and the health of its shore.
''Key West is too important to sell to the lowest bidder,'' he said. ''And we're selling it short, really selling it short.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The port at Mallory Square, a popular tourist destination in Key West, Fla. About 837,000 passengers aboard 350 cruise ships visited the city last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JASON HENRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE VESSELS (91%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (90%); CRUISES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (87%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (77%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (77%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); TOUR OPERATORS (71%); APPROVALS (66%); REFERENDUMS (63%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (61%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (57%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); ARMIES (51%)

COMPANY: ROYAL CARIBBEAN CRUISES LTD (50%)

TICKER: RCL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483114 COASTAL & GREAT LAKES PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KEY WEST, FL, USA (97%) FLORIDA, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%); BAHAMAS (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



849 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Markets Quiet, Awaiting Move On Impasse

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
It was supposed to be an easy week.
Between Christmas and New Year's Day, Wall Street usually goes on hiatus. Trading volume is typically light. And stocks often rise.
But traders, big investors and strategists are paying close attention to their Bloomberg terminals and BlackBerrys this year, as anxiety rises over the budget impasse in Washington.
The Senate plans to resume discussions Thursday over the so-called fiscal cliff, the combination of tax increases and spending cuts that begins on Jan. 1. Without a deal on the table, Wall Street is worried that the economic uncertainty will create turmoil in the final trading days of the year. 
On Christmas Eve, Quincy Krosby, chief market strategist at Prudential Annuities, had a laptop alongside the ingredients for apple cake in her rural Connecticut kitchen. ''I just go back and forth between watching my apples and watching the markets,'' said Ms. Krosby, who is technically on vacation. ''Everyone is on call.''
Wall Street is playing the waiting game.
In recent weeks, stocks have moved higher, in anticipation that President Obama and Congress would reach a compromise on the budget. But then the talks collapsed last week. The market saw its sharpest drop in over a month on Friday after House Speaker John A. Boehner failed to summon support from Republicans for a plan to raise taxes on the wealthiest households.
Now, Wall Street is watching to see what comes next.
Some players are creating portfolio contingency plans if a deal doesn't materialize and stocks plunge. Others are reducing their exposure to stocks that could be particularly vulnerable like financials or energy companies. A faction of opportunists are drawing up buy lists, figuring that bargains will emerge.
''The laptop this week becomes your American Express -- you don't leave home without it,'' said Larry Peruzzi, senior equity trader at Cabrera Capital Markets. ''This Congress -- if it's taught us nothing else -- has taught us you've got to be prepared. Because when you think you've figured them out, they're going to do something else and surprise you.''
On Monday, the floor of the New York Stock Exchange was busy for a Christmas Eve, as traders ate free bagels and gathered to sing ''Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie,'' an annual tradition.
Jonathan Corpina, who works on the floor for Meridian Equity Partners, said that on half days like Monday, traders are usually on cruise control, with no big movements. This year, he said the floor was ''a little louder today than it normally has been,'' given the negotiations in Washington. ''There are more people who have given up their end of the year vacations,'' he said.
While trading volume remained light, stocks edged lower, building on market declines that started Friday. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the day at 1,426.66, off 0.24 percent, or 3.49 points. Even so, the S.& P. 500 is still up over 13 percent for the year. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 51.76 points, or 0.39 percent, to 13,139.08, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 8.41 points, or 0.28 percent, to 3,012.60.
Interest rates were steady. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 1/32, to 98 21/32, as the yield rose to 1.78 percent from 1.77 percent.
If the weakness persists, the markets may not provide their usual holiday boost for investors. Since 1950, equities have risen an average of 1.5 percent in the days after Christmas, what's referred to by the Stock Trader's Almanac as the Santa Claus rally. The atmosphere is reminding some of August 2011, when negotiations in Washington over the debt ceiling forced traders to cancel their summer plans. Trading activity picked up as the deadline drew closer and stocks dropped significantly.
Many expect that politicians will come up with a short-term solution to avert the fiscal cliff. But the announcement may not come until the last minute, keeping Wall Street on edge until then.
''What the market is expecting at this point is a stopgap measure,'' said Ms. Krosby. ''Market activity suggests that investors believe there will be some sort of announcement.''
In the meantime, investors and traders are assessing their portfolios. With taxes on capital gains likely to rise next year, some wealthier individuals are selling winning positions to lock in the current rates.
''Usually people are doing anything they can to avoid locking in gains,'' said Oliver Pursche, president of manager at Gary Goldberg Financial Services. ''It's the exact opposite this year.''
Mr. Pursche said he usually takes a vacation between Christmas and New Year's. This year, he plans to be in the office on Wednesday so that he can be ready to act on any announcements out of Washington.
His firm currently has 15 percent of its assets in cash. If politicians do not reach an agreement and the markets drop, Mr. Pursche plans to use half the money to buy stocks. In Mr. Pursche's view, concern over the budget impasse has distracted investors from recent indicators that the American economy is actually strengthening. He points, in part, to the falling unemployment rates and the rise in personal income.
But not everyone is so sanguine. David Rovelli at Canaccord Genuity said his firm has hashed out lengthy instructions for clients, detailing what stocks to sell under different outcomes.
On Monday, Santa Claus rang the closing bell at the New York Stock Exchange with the jazz trumpeter Chris Biotti offering a rare moment of holiday cheer for the markets. It was the worst pre-Christmas trading day for stocks since 2006.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (76%); TAX INCREASES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); AFFLUENT MARKET (69%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%); JOHN BOEHNER (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



850 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: F.B.I. Counterterrorism Agents Monitored Occupy Movement, Records Show

BYLINE: By MICHAEL S. SCHMIDT and COLIN MOYNIHAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Bureau of Investigation used counterterrorism agents to investigate the Occupy Wall Street movement, including its communications and planning, according to newly disclosed agency records.
The F.B.I. records show that as early as September 2011, an agent from a counterterrorism task force in New York notified officials of two landmarks in Lower Manhattan -- Federal Hall and the Museum of American Finance -- ''that their building was identified as a point of interest for the Occupy Wall Street.''
That was around the time that Occupy Wall Street activists set up a camp in Zuccotti Park in Lower Manhattan, spawning a protest movement across the United States that focused the nation's attention on issues of income inequality. 
In the following months, F.B.I. personnel around the country were routinely involved in exchanging information about the movement with businesses, local law-enforcement agencies and universities.
An October 2011 memo from the bureau's Jacksonville, Fla., field office was titled Domain Program Management Domestic Terrorist.
The memo said agents discussed ''past and upcoming meetings'' of the movement, and its spread. It said agents should contact Occupy Wall Street activists to ascertain whether people who attended their events had ''violent tendencies.''
The memo said that because of high rates of unemployment, ''the movement was spreading throughout Florida and there were several Facebook pages dedicated to specific chapters based on geographical areas.''
The F.B.I. was concerned that the movement would provide ''an outlet for a lone offender exploiting the movement for reasons associated with general government dissatisfaction.''
Since the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, the F.B.I. has come under criticism for deploying counterterrorism agents to conduct surveillance and gather intelligence on organizations active in environmental, animal-cruelty and poverty issues.
The disclosure of the F.B.I. records comes a little more than a year after the police ousted protesters from Zuccotti Park in November 2011. Law-enforcement agencies undertook similar actions around the country against Occupy Wall Street groups.
Occupy Wall Street has lost much of its visibility since then, but questions remain about how local and federal law-enforcement officials monitored and treated the protesters.
The records were obtained by the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund, a civil-rights organization in Washington, through a Freedom of Information request to the F.B.I. Many parts of the documents were redacted by the bureau.
The records provide one of the first glimpses into how deeply involved federal law-enforcement authorities were in monitoring the activities of the movement, which is sometimes described in extreme terms.
For example, according to a memo written by the F.B.I.'s New York field office in August 2011, bureau personnel met with officials from the New York Stock Exchange to discuss ''the planned Anarchist protest titled 'Occupy Wall Street,' scheduled for September 17, 2011.''
''The protest appears on Anarchist Web sites and social network pages on the Internet,'' the memo said.
It added: ''Numerous incidents have occurred in the past which show attempts by Anarchist groups to disrupt, influence, and or shut down normal business operations of financial districts.''
A spokesman for the F.B.I. in Washington cautioned against ''drawing conclusions from redacted'' documents.
''The F.B.I. recognizes the rights of individuals and groups to engage in constitutionally protected activity,'' said the spokesman, Paul Bresson. ''While the F.B.I. is obligated to thoroughly investigate any serious allegations involving threats of violence, we do not open investigations based solely on First Amendment activity. In fact, the Department of Justice and the F.B.I.'s own internal guidelines on domestic operations strictly forbid that.''
But Mara Verheyden-Hilliard, executive director of the Partnership for Civil Justice Fund, said the documents demonstrated that the F.B.I. had acted improperly by gathering information on Americans involved in lawful activities.
''The collection of information on people's free-speech actions is being entered into unregulated databases, a vast storehouse of information widely disseminated to a range of law-enforcement and, apparently, private entities,'' she said. ''This is precisely the threat -- people do not know when or how it may be used and in what manner.''
The records show little evidence that the members of the movement planned to commit violence. But they do describe a discussion on the Internet ''regarding the Occupy Wall Street movement about when it is okay to shoot a police officer'' and a law-enforcement meeting held in Des Moines because ''there may potentially be an attempt to stop the Iowa Caucuses by people involved in Occupy Iowa.''
There are no references within the documents to agency personnel covertly infiltrating Occupy branches.
The documents indicate, however, that the F.B.I. obtained information from police departments and other law-enforcement agencies that appear to have been gathered by someone observing the protesters as they planned activities.
The documents do not detail recent activities by the F.B.I. involving Occupy Wall Street.
But one activist, Billy Livsey, 48, said two F.B.I. agents visited him in Brooklyn over the summer to question him about planned protests at the Republican National Convention in Tampa, Fla., and about plans to celebrate the first anniversary of Occupy Wall Street in September.
The agents, Mr. Livsey said, told him they knew he was among a group of people involved in the Occupy Wall Street ''direct action'' group that distributed information about the movement's activities.
He said he felt unnerved by the visit.
''It was surprising and troubling to me,'' Mr. Livsey said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A group of protesters gathered in Lower Manhattan on Sept. 17, 2011, the first day of the Occupy Wall Street demonstrations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT STOLARIK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (92%); OCCUPY WALL STREET (92%); COUNTERTERRORISM (92%); TERRORISM (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); FREEDOM OF INFORMATION (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (70%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (65%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (65%); STOCK EXCHANGES (50%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (50%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (94%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



851 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1132 words

HEADLINE: Dressing Up for Success

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

 BODY:
In September, a pedestrian walking on Central Park South in Manhattan might have noticed the name Jumeirah being stripped from the marquee of the Essex House, a luxury hotel. The property became a JW Marriott. Earlier, it was a Westin.
The Essex House is not alone changing its brand affiliation. As the recession has eased and hotel occupancy rates have improved, hotel owners have been increasingly changing their affiliations from one brand to a competitor's -- what is known in the industry as reflagging. 
According to statistics from Smith Travel Research, a research firm in Henderson, Tenn., nearly 2,500 hotels were reflagged in 2011. While that represents just a 5 percent sliver of all hotel properties in the United States, it was still a 39 percent increase from 2010.
''In the aftermath of the recession, travel patterns have changed,'' said Bjorn Hanson, divisional dean and clinical professor at the Preston Robert Tisch Center for Hospitality, Tourism and Sports Management at New York University. ''Owners think about repositioning, with some trading up, others forced to trade down,'' he added.
Five-year leases on properties opened in 2006 and 2007 are expiring now. Typically hotel brands do not own the hotels. Hotels may have a contract with a management company or a hotel owner may have a franchise agreement.
''The new brand promises either lower fees or offers more flexible standards that provide the hotel with ways to be more efficient or greater reach in a market,'' said Henry Harteveldt, chief research officer and co-founder of the Atmosphere Research Group in San Francisco. Operators reflag, he said, to take advantage of benefits they are not getting from a current brand.
While experts say most conversions run smoothly, some may hit snags, at least initially. ''The new personnel coming in are competent, trained and supervised,'' Mr. Hanson said, ''but they may not be familiar with the technology or what's in the drawer at the front desk.''
One brand, Holiday Inn of the InterContinental Hotels Group, began considering a reinvigoration of the brand in 2004. Changes began in late 2007 after guests complained about inconsistency among the properties.
''Guests were saying the lobbies and bathrooms weren't modern, the beds weren't comfortable,'' said Verchele Wiggins, vice president for global brand management for the Holiday Inn brands at InterContinental.
In the last eight years, more than 1,400 hotels were removed from the brand. About 1,800 were a combination of newly built Holiday Inns and conversions to Holiday Inn. And just over 1,600 existing Holiday Inns chose to remain with the brand. Each new or existing hotel spent about $150,000 to $250,000 to comply with modernization requirements.
J.D. Power and Associates now ranks Holiday Inn first in its midscale full-service hotel category, up from sixth place in 2009 and 2010.
One property that benefited from improvements is the Holiday Inn, Gwinnett Center in Duluth, Ga., northeast of Atlanta. When the hotel completed its transformation in 2009, plain white sheets were replaced with those using a white decorative stripe, the entryway was flanked with planters and a distinct scent identified with the brand permeated the lobby, according to Tracy Johnson, the general manager.
Rob Palleschi, global head of the DoubleTree by Hilton brand, a brand within Hilton Worldwide, said that ''hotels have toughened up their requirements.'' That brand has been particularly active in converting properties. As of mid-December, it opened 43 hotels this year; 36 were conversions from others brands or independent hotels.
He said design preferences explain some decisions to change brands. Many major brands prefer interior corridors. Those with exterior corridors face a choice of reflagging or demolishing the building and starting over, a considerable expense.
Some hotel executives spend money to revitalize a hotel hoping to attract new customers. One is Stephen M. O'Loughlin, president of Lodging Hospitality Management. The firm owns 18 hotels and office buildings in metropolitan St. Louis, including St. Louis Union Station, which became a DoubleTree in October. The hotel was previously a Marriott.
Mr. O'Loughlin said he considered staying with that brand, but he encountered a difference of opinion over how to configure the hotel's grand hall.
He said he had previously worked with Hilton, transforming a Marriott across from Busch Stadium seven years ago into the Hilton St. Louis at the Ballpark. And he believed he could use the DoubleTree to absorb the overflow from the Ballpark's meetings and conferences. He chose DoubleTree because the brand is less stringent about room size and unusual configurations than others under the Hilton umbrella.
While many guests at the St. Louis Union Station hotel claim to be satisfied with the transformation thus far, reviews on sites like TripAdvisor show exceptions. One, Ccgworldtraveler wrote, ''Aging rooms, décor and infrastructure.''
With the conversion barely under way, Mr. O'Loughlin said it would be a year or more before the new elements of the hotel were in place. The renovation is being done in stages to keep guest interruptions to a minimum.
Mr. Harteveldt of the Atmosphere Research Group said that hotels need to pay attention to ''the world of TripAdvisor, where comments can be public and retweeted, and reviews are indexed in search engines.''
Although not every rebranding involves a renovation, even a straightforward changeover can be a nuisance for guests. Mr. Harteveldt said that during one stay at a recently reflagged hotel, he saw a steady stream of hotel personnel in his room as they exchanged room service menus and changed nameplates on the telephone and the brand of shampoo in the bathroom. When he questioned the need for the frequent interruptions, he said he was told, ''We're obliged to uphold the standard of the brand.''
And, while a transformation is under way, convention and meeting managers with contracts for coming events need to check with the hotel to make sure their plans are still in place.
The housekeeping staff may remain with the hotel, but senior managers, including the event manager, the general manager or the chef who designed and approved the menu may leave, said Jim Butler, partner and chairman of the global hospitality group at Jeffer, Mangels, Butler & Mitchell law firm in Los Angeles. ''A property can be very different once a hotel changes flags,'' he added.
He urged anyone booking an event to be alert to the surroundings. ''Try to get a feel,'' he said, and see if people are smiling or maintenance has been deferred. And he suggested trying to put a provision in the contract that allows cancellation if there is a change of branding, management or the operating standard of the hotel.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Essex House in Manhattan has become a JW Marriott, after being managed by the Jumeirah Group. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DECHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (96%); HOTEL CHAINS (90%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); LODGING (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); FULL SERVICE HOTELS (72%); PROPERTY LEASES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); STATISTICS (71%); RANKINGS (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS BUSINESS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%)

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (91%); INTERCONTINENTAL HOTELS GROUP PLC (52%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (50%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (91%); IHG (NYSE) (52%); IHG (LSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (91%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



852 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ON THE ROAD; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 829 words

HEADLINE: More on a Man Who Flew More Than a Million Miles

BYLINE: By JOE SHARKEY. 
E-mail: jsharkey@nytimes.com

 BODY:
AS the end of the year approaches, many business travelers anxiously do the mileage math. That is, how many miles did I fly this year on a given airline? Was it enough to hit the mark for whichever elite-status level I'm pursuing for next year?
This helps to explain the robust reaction to last week's column, in which I reported that Tom Stuker, whom United Airlines calls its ''top flier,'' has flown more than a million miles on United this year. Especially provocative was the assertion that Mr. Stuker, 59, achieved United top-elite status, Premier 1K, last Jan. 8. Premier 1K is a status reserved for those who fly at least 100,000 miles in a year. 
Mark Zawacki, a reader, had a typically skeptical response. ''That is four global circumnavigations in eight days. You physically can't get around the globe four times in eight days. Connections don't work, even if you wanted to,'' he pointed out.
Yes, but there is an explanation. Agreed, there are a finite number of miles, and no, there are no parallel universes. Mr. Stuker's amazing achievement so early in January is explained by that mystery element E.Q.M., the ''elite qualifying mile,'' a kind of bonus particle that supercharges the mass of literal miles flown.
Mr. Stuker explained: ''I flew approximately 70,000 plus in the first eight days of 2012, all in first class, earning a 50 percent E.Q.M. bonus, pushing me over 100,000 and qualifying me for 1K'' on Jan. 8.
''By Jan. 12, I had flown over 100,000 actual miles, with an E.Q.M. of over 150,000,'' he continued. Then, on Dec. 6, ''I passed one million on United flights alone.'' That's actual miles, incidentally, not including elite qualifying miles. Mr. Stuker, as I noted last week, is a consultant who runs training seminars at automobile dealerships around the world.
To repeat: Mr. Stuker, to the astonishment of all except his wife, Darlene -- who went along with him on 200,000 of those miles on vacation trips and long weekends to exotic places) -- has logged more than a million actual miles in 2012.
United Airlines confirmed that Mr. Stuker flew 73,000 actual miles as of Jan. 8, but had earned 110,000 miles. United said that Mr. Stuker hit the one million actual-miles-flown mark on Dec. 6, on a flight from London to Chicago.
O.K., mileage experts: I hear you tapping at those calculators again. Yes, you might be saying, it might be technically possible to fly 73,000 miles in the first eight days of January, assuming very efficient long-haul connections -- but you'd have to be up in the air nearly all of that time, with almost no margin left for work.
Ah, but that's exactly what Mr. Stuker says he was doing as the rest of us eased back into our routines early this year. As I noted last week, he is being featured in an eight-segment reality show on Spike TV that begins in February.
That show, ''Car Lot Rescue,'' is about his job turning around troubled car dealerships. As 2012 approached, he explained, producers approached him with the idea of a reality show about his flying literally nonstop for 30 days, with attendant adventures and challenges.
The flying marathon in January was a kind of trial run, he said. ''At the beginning of the year, I decided to fly 12 days nonstop, starting off in Bangkok, to see if I could deal with the 30-day thing,'' he explained. He decided he could. But no airline wanted to participate in such a reality show, so he returned to his normal world travels.
With a new year of business travel ahead, I thought it would be useful to hear some advice from this king of the road, or at least the airways.
If you want the very best treatment, he says, fly a lot and remain loyal. Easy for him to say, of course. As a very-high-revenue customer, Mr. Stuker is in United's invitation-only Global Services program, which provides hands-on customer service above and beyond that accorded even to the top standard ranks of elite status. Most airlines have similar exalted-status programs.
''It's basically, 'Hey, you spend a lot of money with United, we try to make sure you don't go anywhere else,' '' he said. ''About 99 percent of my flying is on United. They've been very loyal to me; I have been very loyal to them. Nobody drinks more United Kool-Aid than me.''
Also, he says, evaluate expectations and understand the economics of the airline industry. Domestic airlines lost $55 billion in the decade through 2010 before achieving some shaky traction in profitability in the last two.
''The average flying customer feels that they should be getting a round-trip ticket from New York to L.A. for $199, and get triple miles and an upgrade,'' he said. ''The airlines have conditioned everybody to elite status now, and that's not sustainable.''
And really, in the final analysis, what choice do you have, if you want to get from New York to San Francisco in six hours, or Beijing in 13? ''I'm probably a little more patient about flying than some people, because I think, what are the options? Greyhound?'' he said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRIS GASH) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (89%); NEW CAR DEALERS (50%)

COMPANY: UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%) ILLINOIS, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



853 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Finds Unlikely Allies In Trade Fight

BYLINE: By ELISABETH MALKIN

 BODY:
As tomato growers in Florida and some other states fight a 16-year-old agreement that they contend allows farmers in Mexico to export tomatoes at a price below their costs, the Mexican farmers are finding allies in the United States.
The trade dispute highlights the network of interlocking interests between the countries under the North American Free Trade Agreement. Trade across the Mexican border is now worth more than $1 billion a day.
American producers of corn, soybeans, apples, pork and chicken have increased sales to Mexico greatly over the years as trade barriers have been dismantled. But at the same time, Mexico has become a fast-growing supplier of produce to American supermarkets and restaurants. Tomatoes lead the list: exports have doubled and their value has tripled since the mid-1990s, to almost $2 billion.
That has been aided by a complex arrangement dating from 1996 that established a minimum price at which Mexican tomatoes are permitted to enter the American market. 
Florida farmers are leading a campaign to persuade the Commerce Department to scrap the accord. They won a victory in September when the department announced a preliminary decision to end it. Lawyers in the case say a final decision may be issued in the next few weeks.
But other United States interests are lining up in support of continuing the agreement.
For example, Richard Fimbres, a member of the Tucson City Council who is usually more concerned with improving city streets than with the minutiae of international trade law, recently sponsored a resolution asking the Commerce Department to continue the agreement.
Then he wrote to President Obama last month, declaring that ''we can't turn our back on the global economy now.''
The reason is that fresh Mexican tomatoes are big business in Arizona. Much of the $2 billion in business passes through the state, benefiting local importers and distributors.
But the benefits go beyond them. More than 370 businesses and trade groups -- from small family-run importers on the Mexico border to Wal-Mart Stores -- have written or signed letters to the Commerce Department in favor of continuing the deal.
Kevin Ahern, the chief executive of Ahern Agribusiness in San Diego, was among them. His company sells about $20 million a year in tomato seeds and transplants to Mexican farmers.
''Yes, Mexico produces their tomatoes on average at a lower cost than Florida; that's what we call competitive advantage,'' Mr. Ahern said in an e-mail. Without the agreement to provide ''stability to a volatile market, Mexican tomato acreage destined for U.S. markets will decline,'' he said, and that would damage his business.
While Florida tomato growers contend the accord is hurting their business, the broader trade dynamics are generating business for other companies in the United States.
''A lot of what is produced and harvested in Mexico is put in the ground with U.S. money and intended for U.S. markets,'' said John McClung, the president and chief executive of the Texas International Produce Association. ''The garden simply happens to be across the river.''
NatureSweet Ltd., which is based in San Antonio, grows cherry and grape tomatoes under 1,200 acres of greenhouses in Mexico for the American market. It employs 5,000 people, although all but about 100 of them work in Mexico.
''We couldn't survive without Nafta,'' said Bryant Ambelang, the company's chief executive. Mr. Ambelang said that Mexican-grown tomatoes were more competitive because of lower labor costs, good weather and more than a decade of investment in greenhouse technology.
''Here we went and signed an agreement called Nafta, and now we're going to go and wave our finger in one industry where Mexico has superiority?'' he said.
Mr. McClung said that even though Texas lost much of its commercial fresh tomato industry years ago, ''we can do quite nicely importing Mexican tomatoes.''
He acknowledged that growers in Florida and elsewhere were ''going slowly under.'' But, he added, ''my job is to protect Texas importers.''
The complex 1996 trade accord was struck after Florida farmers asked the Commerce Department to impose antidumping duties on Mexican tomatoes. Their complaint was suspended after Mexico's largest producers agreed to ship their tomatoes at a minimum price, ensuring they could not sell at prices that might undercut Florida production.
But Edward Beckman, president of Certified Greenhouse Farmers, a trade group for American and Canadian growers, argues that conditions have changed since then.
The ''current playing field is tilted completely against domestic interests, and we need to quickly address the unfair trade that exists,'' he said in a recent statement.
American supporters of the accord argue that it has created a reliable supply and predictable prices.
Consumers have come to expect year-round tomatoes, said Bill Piper, the vice president and general manager of Grant County Foods in Dry Ridge, Ky., a large produce wholesaler and repacker that buys tomatoes from Florida and Mexico.
If it becomes harder to import Mexican tomatoes, he said, ''people will have to put up signs: 'We have tomatoes today' or 'We don't have tomatoes today.' ''
Scott DeFife, executive vice president at the National Restaurant Association, said that ''people want tomato-based dishes all the time.'' He added, ''You plan over the course of the year where you are going to get your supply in the winter, the spring, the fall.''
Without tomatoes from Mexico, a winter freeze in Florida, for example, would send prices shooting up, he said.
If the 1996 deal were canceled, importers, distributors and retailers said they suspect that American growers would file a new antidumping complaint against Mexican tomatoes. Under that process, the Commerce Department could impose tariffs on Mexican tomatoes if it determined that the Mexicans were selling below their costs.
Even if the department eventually found that the Mexicans were not dumping, a complaint itself would have a chilling effect on trade.
''All these other companies involved in the Mexico supply chain stand to lose a good portion of their business if protectionism is put in place,'' said Lance Jungmeyer, the president of the Fresh Produce Association of the Americas, a trade association of importers and distributors based in Nogales, Ariz.
The Mexican producers have offered changes to the 1996 deal, including raising prices to as much as 48 percent more than the current price. American growers have not been placated.
Reginald L. Brown, the president of the Florida Tomato Exchange, said that the flood of Mexican tomatoes pushed the price so low last winter that the industry could not cover picking and packing costs.
''The U.S. industry has a right to defend itself,'' Mr. Brown said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, harvesting tomatoes in Homestead, Fla., and, right, tending them in a greenhouse in Lagos de Moreno, Mexico. NatureSweet, which is based in San Antonio, grows tomatoes in Mexico. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES
ADRIANA ZEHBRAUSKAS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JEFF PADRICK/NATURESWEET, VIA PR NEWSWIRE) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); MISC VEGETABLE FARMING (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (78%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); TRADE DISPUTES (78%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); LAWYERS (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%); CITIES (64%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (55%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (52%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TUCSON, AZ, USA (79%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (95%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) MEXICO (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



854 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Future of Corporate Tower May Hinge on a New Use

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
The AT&T Building, a lavish $200 million headquarters with a seven-story arch at 550 Madison Avenue, was a symbol of a resurgent New York when it opened in 1983 after a decade of municipal woes and corporate flight.
The 37-story rose-granite tower, now known as the Sony Building, is on the auction block for as much as $1 billion. About 20 prospective buyers submitted bids last week, hoping to turn the building into condominiums, a luxury hotel, a chic retail arcade or maybe even office space for small, high-end firms. But not a corporate headquarters. 
The potential evolution says a lot about a city and a neighborhood where Calvin Klein, Armani, Hermès, Dior and Gucci are paying some of the world's highest retail rents. On 57th Street, developers of two projects are vying to build North America's tallest, most gilded residential tower, with condos selling to princes and billionaires for tens of millions of dollars each.
The Sony Building between 55th and 56th Streets, with its wood-paneled board rooms and sweeping white marble staircase, may be more suited today for tenants like hedge funds, which do not flinch at rents above $120 a square foot.
''This building has the right height and the right location to be a success,'' said Mitchell Moss, an urban planner at New York University. ''The only question is, what goes inside the building? The underlying appeal of that neighborhood has gotten so strong that it's too expensive for a corporate headquarters.''
Developers turning in their first-round bids included Vornado Realty Trust, Boston Properties, Mitsubishi Trust, Mitsui Fudosan and RXR Realty, according to prospective buyers and to real estate executives. Others bidding were Steven C. Witkoff, Harry B. Macklowe and Edward J. Minskoff, they said.
Nearly all of them have partners -- including Canadian pension firms, sovereign funds and foreign investors -- who view Manhattan as one of the safest markets in the world.
But there is no guarantee that Sony will get the price it wants. More than half the prospective buyers fell short of Sony's billion-dollar expectation, executives said. A select group of bidders will be invited to submit second bids next month.
Prospective sales this year by two other owners of large commercial properties -- the 47-story Worldwide Plaza on Eighth Avenue and the 30-story tower at 11 Madison Avenue -- fell flat when offers came in far below the $1.5 billion each had sought.
But the Sony Building may come close. ''The demand from the global investment community for assets like this is at the highest level I've ever seen,'' said Dan Fasulo of Real Capital Analytics, a research firm. ''Once it's shined up and brought up to 2013 standards, it'll compete for some of the highest rents in Manhattan.''
A Sony representative did not respond to requests for comment on the sale.
When the building was under construction in 1981, New York City was struggling to stave off an economic malaise, the loss of industrial jobs, and long-term decay. AT&T's headquarters, like the IBM Building under construction a block away and Trump Tower around the corner on Fifth Avenue, offered signs of a renaissance.
But AT&T, which was in the midst of divesting itself of all the regional telephone operating companies, soon leased nearly half of the tower to Sony. The Japanese company eventually bought the building in 2002 for $236 million.
Sony is not the dominant force in consumer electronics that it once was. Last April, the company said it would cut 10,000 jobs. Soon, it put the tower up for sale.
Sony's real estate broker, Douglas Harmon of Eastdil Secured, gave prospective buyers a 216-page confidential offering memorandum, ''The Icon at 550 Madison Avenue.'' Sony plans to remain in the building for three years, before moving to a new location.
''The future vacancy provides a blank canvas to maximize the property's wide spectrum of use and pursue a myriad of office, retail, hospitality, and residential options,'' the offering book said.
Still, with Wall Street's emphasis on quarterly results, many big companies are no longer looking for expensive homes, so the building probably will not attract a major corporate buyer.
In 2011, Jeffrey L. Bewkes, chief executive of Time Warner, described his company's plush headquarters at the Time Warner Center as ''indulgent.'' He laid out plans to save money and consolidate company operations in more efficient, less luxurious space.
Many buyers said the Sony Building, now 30, will have to be gutted, which would cost tens of millions of dollars. They are considering a mix of uses, including hotels and high-end shops.
Mr. Witkoff confirmed that he had submitted a bid, with plans to convert the top of the tower to condominiums. ''There's no way that you can make sense out of this deal if it's office space,'' he said. ''In my opinion, the only way it works is if the top goes residential. You'll get the highest numbers from condominiums.''
Several other bidders envision a similar mix of retail and residential. Executives said another bidder, Mr. Macklowe, favored a luxury retail arcade at the base of the building, with luxury office space for smaller firms. Mr. Macklowe built a similar building at 510 Madison but lost it to his lenders during the recent recession.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Sony Building, at 550 Madison Avenue. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (75%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (75%); RETAIL PROPERTY (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); HEDGE FUNDS (66%)

COMPANY: VORNADO REALTY TRUST (66%); MITSUI FUDOSAN CO LTD (57%)

TICKER: VNO (NYSE) (66%); 8801 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6798 REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (57%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



855 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Christmas Ornaments, Child Labor

BYLINE: By MARJORIE ELIZABETH WOOD. 
Marjorie Elizabeth Wood is a visiting assistant professor of American history at the School of Industrial and Labor Relations, Cornell University.

 BODY:
Ithaca, N.Y.
TODAY millions of American children will be opening gifts left under Christmas trees. Sadly, many of those trees are decorated with ornaments produced by involuntary child labor.
Just this month, an advocacy network, the Global March Against Child Labor, led a surprise raid of a sweatshop in New Delhi. Fourteen children, ages 8 to 14, were rescued. They were working in small, unventilated spaces for up to 15 hours a day, forced, under the constant threat of violence, to make Christmas decorations and seasonal gifts to be sold in America and Europe.
These were just 14 children of the six million who, according to the United Nations, are trafficked into labor under the threat of physical harm or physical restraint each year. Forced labor is part of an even bigger problem: recent estimates indicate that there are 215 million laborers under the age of 18 worldwide, over half of whom are working in hazardous conditions. The United States Department of Labor publishes a ''list of goods produced by child labor or forced labor,'' which mentions 134 goods -- including decorations, clothing, electronics, shoes, jewelry, fashion accessories and toys -- produced in 74 countries. 
During the holiday season, heightened consumer demand in the West for these goods leads to a shortage of labor. To cope with this, teenagers and children are often recruited or, as in the New Delhi case, trafficked into forced labor. Poor parents are often tricked into selling their children to middlemen for a few dollars, after being told that their children will receive care and a free education, and that their wages will be sent back to the family.
Last Christmas, an investigation of toy factories in China, where 85 percent of the toys on the American market are produced, revealed that about 300 youth workers were drafted to help with the holiday demand. Another undercover investigation of a Chinese factory last year revealed that children as young as 14 were making Disney's best-selling Cars toys in preparation for the 2011 holiday season.
The use of child labor has been rising around the world since the financial crisis in 2008. A recent study by the risk-assessment company Maplecroft revealed that manufacturing supply chains in 76 countries were at ''extreme risk'' of involving child labor at some stage, up from 68 countries last year. Among these countries are key American trading partners: China, India, Brazil, Indonesia and the Philippines. Bangladesh, where a recent garment factory fire killed 112 workers, is also a major offender. Many of the dead were young women, some as young as 12.
America's own history of addressing domestic child labor in the early 20th century points the way to a global solution to the current problem. Just as today, toys and trinkets then were often made by poor children in factories and tenements -- but in America itself. In 1912, Lewis Hine photographed New York City tenement children sewing dolls and displayed the images alongside photographs of middle-class children playing with the same dolls in Central Park. The photographs prompted the State Legislature the next year to prohibit the making of dolls and children's clothing, among other items, in tenement houses.
Child-labor opponents in the early 20th century drew attention to child labor at Christmastime to stir a complacent American public. Life magazine captured the irony in a 1913 cartoon that contrasted a child laborer, making a stuffed toy, with a privileged child who would later play with it. And in a popular book from 1914 called ''Children in Bondage,'' one reformer wrote that tenement children were ''wasting their bodies and souls to make a little joy for the rest.''
Child advocates also promoted boycotts on the products of child labor. Florence Kelley introduced the ''White Label,'' which was given to businesses that refused to sell the products of child labor. During the Christmas season, child advocates told consumers to shop only at White Label stores. The movement raised consumer awareness and helped spur the effective abolition of most industrial child labor in the United States in 1938.
Today, business interests have managed to thwart serious efforts to curb the problem of child labor abroad. Though many corporations and trade associations have official policies against child labor, they are not clamoring for import bans on the products of child labor. Some have even successfully lobbied against such legislation. For instance, the Child Labor Deterrence Act, which would ban the import of goods made by children under the age of 15, has repeatedly failed to pass since Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, introduced it in 1992.
What we need now is a White Label movement for the 21st-century global economy. Among others, Shima Baradaran, a law professor at Brigham Young University, has advocated fair-trade labeling to combat child labor. Fair trade, she points out, is one of the fastest growing markets in the world, and consumers would be less likely to purchase the products of child labor if other options were made known to them.
In an age when business lobbying makes meaningful trade regulation difficult to achieve, this kind of social entrepreneurship must carry the day. The Department of Labor already conducts extensive research on the sources of commodities in global markets. This information could form the basis of a public awareness campaign about child-labor-free products. To bring this campaign fully into the digital age, nonprofit organizations should sponsor the design of an app that allows consumers to determine whether products are child-labor-free. (There is already a Fair Trade Finder app that helps consumers locate nearby stores that sell fair trade products. A child-labor-free app could serve a similar purpose.)
Through the choices they make in the marketplace, consumers have the power to reverse the trend of global child labor. And as the world's largest market for child-labor goods, it is American consumers who must lead the way. In the season of giving, and with New Year's fast approaching, there is no better time to find the resolve.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (91%); CHILD LABOR (91%); LABOR TRAFFICKING (90%); CHILD WELFARE (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (89%); GARMENT WORKERS (89%); SWEATSHOPS (77%); LABOR SHORTAGES (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); FACTORY FIRES (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); TOYS & GAMES MFG (71%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (52%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (56%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (52%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (52%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (52%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); INDIA (94%); CHINA (90%); EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); PHILIPPINES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



856 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 227 words

HEADLINE: Women of Afghanistan

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''Big Decision on Afghanistan'' (editorial, Dec. 17) recommends that President Obama bring American and NATO troops home soon because waiting until the end of 2014 amounts to delaying the inevitable. 
Women for Afghan Women runs women's shelters in eight Afghan provinces. The ''inevitable'' alluded to is a horror that we cannot accept or allow. Our 460 courageous staff people, all Afghans, risk their lives daily to fight for women's rights.
They and all the Afghans we know personally are terrified about what will happen after NATO and American troops leave Afghanistan in 2014. There is fear that the country will fall into a bloody civil war or succumb to a Taliban takeover. Either way, the women of Afghanistan will suffer the worst brutality -- yet again.
We implore President Obama and other world leaders to strategize together and ensure that the gains -- concrete gains in education, access to justice and participation in all aspects of social, economic and political life -- made by the human rights community and civil society do not disintegrate when foreign troops leave.
The world must agree that we will never again abandon the women and girls of Afghanistan.
SUNITA VISWANATH ESTHER HYNEMAN MANIZHA NADERI Brooklyn, Dec. 17, 2012
The writers are, respectively, co-founder, board member and executive director of Women for Afghan Women.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); WOMEN (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CIVIL WAR (78%); TALIBAN (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); WOMEN'S SHELTERS (72%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (91%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (96%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



857 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1033 words

HEADLINE: Historic Boston Church's Decision to Sell Rare Psalmbook Divides Congregation

BYLINE: By JESS BIDGOOD

 BODY:
BOSTON -- When the leadership at Old South Church decided it was time to fix up their home, they turned to a fund-raising option most likely available only to a Colonial-era institution like this one, founded in this city's primordial hinterlands: selling a copy of a rare psalmbook, printed across the river in Cambridge in 1640, that could fetch up to $20 million at auction.
That proposal, and the congregation's recent vote to authorize it, has forced one of the nation's oldest churches to consider how to square the icons of its past -- and this country's -- with the challenges of operating a contemporary urban church. In the process, it has stirred dissent from some members who say the sale of heritage assets is a betrayal of their history.
''For 340 years, this was unthinkable,'' said Jeff Makholm, an economist who acts as the church's historian. ''We think it's disgusting. It's breaking faith with the people who poured their energies into keeping them safe as a representation of our history.'' 
The Bay Psalm, as the book is called, is one of two copies belonging to the church that reside in the Boston Public Library's rare-book collection, where Mr. Makholm paid a visit on a recent afternoon. ''Here are the boys,'' he said, slipping the books out of their cases. ''There's nothing like them.''
A staple of services in the Massachusetts Bay Colony, the psalms had been painstakingly -- and sometimes awkwardly -- translated from Hebrew into English by church elders, giving the New World its own religious text. A locksmith inexpertly printed 1,700 copies of the Psalter; it was the first time a printing press rolled in the British North American colonies -- and the books were used, abused and discarded. Only 11 copies are known to exist today.
''People haven't been fascinated by this book because the translation is mellifluous or beautiful,'' said Michael F. Suarez, a professor of English at the University of Virginia who directs the Rare Book School there. ''People haven't been attracted to this book because the presswork is beautiful. It's not.''
He added: ''Here is this Puritan community that arrived and began to forge an identity for themselves. This book plays a role in the American story as almost no other book does.''
One of the church's copies is part of the Thomas Prince library, an extensive repository of Colonial books left to Old South Church by Mr. Prince, a learned congregant. The church cannot sell items in that collection, but a 1978 probate court ruling found that the second psalmbook is not a part of it, which most likely means that the church is allowed to sell it.
Valuable objects are practically part of the furniture at Old South, which has a fabled history dating to 1669. Now part of the United Church of Christ, it first formed as a breakaway congregational parish and then moved to an 1875 church overlooking Copley Square, a busy thoroughfare. Church leaders say the century-plus-old building is in need of major repairs.
Its senior minister, Nancy Taylor, hoisted a massive Bible from underneath a coffee table in her wood-paneled office one recent afternoon and pointed to an inscription on the back made when Samuel Adams attended an ecclesiastical council here in 1793. ''So Sam Adams did that, isn't that fun?'' she said.
Old South counts Adams, Benjamin Franklin and the African-American poet Phillis Wheatley as members, and over the years it has embraced progressive causes like the American Revolution, abolition, civil rights and, in more recent years, equal rights for gays and lesbians. Today, the church supports more than two dozen nonprofit organizations.
For Ms. Taylor, the sale of the Bay Psalm -- as well as 19 pieces of silver, currently housed at the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, that the congregation also empowered the trustees to sell -- is a proper use of historic assets to help continue its legacy and mission.
''We want to repurpose them to carry out ministries today,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''I adore and cherish this congregation's history. We collect up these stories and we carry them with us, but we don't have to carry the book with us, or the silver with us, to learn from it, to be inspired by it, to be made brave by it.''
Ms. Taylor says the building needs about $7 million in deferred maintenance projects, including upgrades to the heating and sprinkler systems, that would be impossible to finance without a major cash infusion.
''Across this country, urban churches are going under, they're fading away, because their buildings are too heavy a drag on them,'' Ms. Taylor said. ''This sale would position us to be a church that doesn't do that.''
Some members and observers have questioned the necessity of such a sizable capital infusion. The church's endowment is currently about $18 million, and its members, Ms. Taylor said, give the church about $1 million a year, up from $400,000 10 years ago.
''If you were a church that was going down, crashing or something like that -- we are clearly not in that circumstance,'' said Robert Wulff, a retired lawyer who has been a member of the church for more than 35 years.
Mr. Makholm, who calls the building upgrades ''vanity projects,'' said the church's leadership has created a false choice between its past and its future. ''Central air-conditioning? This Bay Psalm Book for central air-conditioning?'' he asked. ''We've turned from an iconic church to a mission church, and I thought to myself, Old South has always been both.''
But when the congregation gathered this month, it voted overwhelmingly to empower the trustees to figure out how to sell the book and the silver.
''We're a living church, we're not a library or a museum -- that's not really where our treasure lies,'' said Bob Kosturko, the creative director for a publisher in Boston. ''As rare and as valuable as this book is, I just don't think that it's a critical item to our identity.''
Estimates for the Bay Psalm at auction range from $10 million to $20 million. ''I think it's going to go high,'' said Mr. Suarez, the rare-books expert. ''The book community is abuzz with the news. There's a lot of joking in the rare-book community: Hey, have you saved up enough to buy the Bay Psalm Book?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Old South Church in Boston owns 2 of the 11 first-edition copies of the Bay Psalm Book, printed in 1640, still known to exist. It plans to sell one to raise money for renovations. (A10)
 Nancy Taylor, senior minister of Old South Church in Boston, says it needs about $7 million in renovations. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY GRETCHEN ERTL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); RELIGION (89%); HISTORY (77%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (77%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (73%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); LIBRARIES (71%); PROBATE (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (95%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



858 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1620 words

HEADLINE: Jack Klugman, Actor of Everyman Integrity, Dies at 90

BYLINE: By BRUCE WEBER

 BODY:
Jack Klugman, the rubber-mugged character actor who leapt to television stardom in the 1970s as the slovenly sportswriter Oscar Madison on ''The Odd Couple'' and as the crusading forensic pathologist of ''Quincy, M.E.,'' died on Monday at his home in the Woodland Hills section of Los Angeles. He was 90.
His death was confirmed by his stepson Randy Wilson.
At one time a heavy smoker, Mr. Klugman had survived throat cancer, which was diagnosed in 1974. After a vocal cord was removed in 1989, his voice was reduced to a gravelly whisper. 
Mr. Klugman, who grew up in a rough-and-tumble neighborhood in Philadelphia, wasn't a subtle performer. His features were large and mobile; his voice was a deep, earnest, rough-hewed bleat. He was a no-baloney actor who conveyed straightforward, simply defined emotion, whether it was anger, heartbreak, lust or sympathy.
That forthrightness, in both comedy and drama, was the source of his power and his popularity. Never remote, never haughty, he was a regular guy, an audience-pleaser who proved well-suited for series television.
Mr. Klugman was already a decorated actor in 1970 when he began co-starring in ''The Odd Couple,'' a sitcom adaptation of Neil Simon's hit play about two divorced men -- friends with antagonistic temperaments -- sharing a New York apartment. (A film version was released in 1968 with Walter Matthau reprising his Broadway performance as Oscar.)
Opposite Mr. Klugman's Oscar, an outgoing slob with a fondness for poker, cigars and sexy women, was Tony Randall as the pretentious fussbudget Felix Unger (spelled Ungar in the play and the film).
Mr. Klugman had played the part before: he had replaced Mr. Matthau for a few months on Broadway and had originated the role in London.
He also had more than 100 television credits behind him, including four episodes of ''The Twilight Zone'' and a 1964 episode of the legal drama ''The Defenders,'' in which he delivered an Emmy Award-winning performance as a blacklisted actor.
In the movies he had been the nouveau-riche father of a Jewish American princess (Ali MacGraw) in ''Goodbye, Columbus'' (1969); a police colleague of Frank Sinatra's in ''The Detective'' (1968); Jack Lemmon's Alcoholics Anonymous sponsor in ''Days of Wine and Roses'' (1962); and a murder-trial juror, alongside Henry Fonda, in ''12 Angry Men'' (1957).
In his solo moment in that film, his character, known only as Juror No. 5, recalls growing up in a tough neighborhood and instructs his fellow jurors in the proper use of a switchblade, a key element in their deliberations.
The ''Odd Couple'' series made Mr. Klugman a celebrity, but not immediately. During its five-year run, it never cracked the Top 20 in the Nielsen prime time ratings. Some critics said Mr. Klugman and Mr. Randall were always operating in the long shadows of the actors who came before them in the roles: besides Mr. Matthau as Oscar, Mr. Lemmon (film) and Art Carney (Broadway) had played Felix. But after ''The Odd Couple'' went into seemingly perpetual reruns, it earned a huge new following.
Mr. Klugman won two Emmys for the show and Mr. Randall one, and they eventually became the Oscar and Felix most identified with the roles.
''Quincy, M.E.'' was as sincere a drama as the ''The Odd Couple'' was a loopy comedy, and though it is not remembered as fondly, its initial run, from 1976 to 1983, was far more successful. The title character, the medical examiner for Los Angeles County (Quincy's first name was never revealed), was inspired by the real medical examiner at the time, Thomas T. Noguchi, known familiarly as ''the coroner to the stars,'' who performed autopsies on Marilyn Monroe, Robert F. Kennedy, Natalie Wood and John Belushi, among others.
Quincy, a forensic pathologist, was as much a crusading detective as he was a doctor. The show often focused on social problems -- abuse of the elderly by their children, for example. (Mr. Klugman occasionally wrote for the show and fought with network executives over its content.) And it could be preachy. But it achieved high ratings and even made an impact on health-care policy.
A 1981 episode, about a young man with Tourette's syndrome, drew attention to so-called orphan drugs, medications that drug companies ignore as unprofitable because the conditions they treat are relatively rare. The House Subcommittee on Health and Environment invited Mr. Klugman to Washington to testify on the issue.
''How many cries before they get heard?'' Mr. Klugman said of those with rare disorders. ''We are not talking about orphan drugs; we're talking about orphan people.''
The Orphan Drug Act, offering economic incentives to pharmaceutical companies for developing such drugs, was passed in 1983.
Mr. Klugman's path to success was serendipitous. He was born in Philadelphia on April 27, 1922, the youngest of six children of immigrants from Russia. Most sources indicate that his name at birth was Jacob, though Mr. Klugman said in an interview that the name on his birth certificate is Jack.
His father, Max, was a house painter who died when Jack was 12. His mother, Rose, was a milliner who worked out of the family home in hardscrabble South Philadelphia, where Jack grew up shooting pool, rolling dice and playing the horses. His interest in acting was kindled at 14 or 15 when his sister took him to a play, ''One Third of a Nation,'' a ''living newspaper'' production of the Federal Theater Project about life in an American slum; the play made the case for government housing projects.
''I just couldn't believe the power of it,'' he said of the production in an interview in 1998 for the Archive of American Television, crediting the experience for instilling in him his social-crusading impulse. ''I wanted to be a muckraker.''
After a stint in the Army -- he was discharged because of a kidney ailment -- Mr. Klugman returned to Philadelphia but racked up a debt to loan sharks who were so dangerous that he left town. He landed in Pittsburgh, where he auditioned for the drama department at Carnegie Tech (now Carnegie Mellon University).
''They said: 'You're not suited to be an actor. You're more suited to be a truck driver,' '' he recalled. But this was 1945, the war was just ending and there was a dearth of male students, so he was accepted. ''There were no men,'' he said. ''Otherwise they wouldn't have taken me in.''
After two years at Carnegie he left for New York, where he led the poverty-stricken life of an aspiring actor, taking bit parts in summer stock and hole-in-the-wall New York productions, occasionally selling pints of blood to pay the rent. He roomed for a while with Charles Bronson, who introduced him to vigorous exercise.
It was a good thing. A strong physique was the first requirement in Broadway auditions for ''Mister Roberts,'' a World War II comedy about life on a Navy cargo ship. Mr. Klugman passed the test when he stripped off his shirt. He was hired as an understudy and for 15 months worked alongside Fonda, the star of the show, who took him under his wing. Mr. Klugman gave Fonda credit for helping him to get crucial early roles, including the one in ''12 Angry Men.''
Mr. Klugman also appeared in a 1952 revival of Clifford Odets's ''Golden Boy,'' which starred John Garfield and Lee J. Cobb, and the musical ''Gypsy,'' in which he was paired with Ethel Merman, playing Herbie, the reluctant theatrical agent who loves Merman's Momma Rose.
In 1953, Mr. Klugman married the actress Brett Somers. They separated in 1974 (she played Oscar Madison's former wife on ''The Odd Couple'') but were never divorced. She died in 2007. Their two sons, Adam and David, survive him. In 2008 Mr. Klugman married his longtime partner, Peggy Crosby. She survives him as well, as do two stepsons, Mr. Wilson and Phil Crosby Jr., and two grandchildren.
Mr. Klugman returned to the theater in the 1980s, touring in a one-man show based on the life of Lyndon B. Johnson and replacing Judd Hirsch on Broadway as a crusty, bench-sitting old man in Herb Gardner's play ''I'm Not Rappaport.'' He also starred in the television series ''You Again?,'' in which he played a long-divorced man whose 17-year-old son (John Stamos) moves in with him. The show lasted two seasons.
After his vocal cord surgery, Mr. Klugman was prepared to devote himself to raising racehorses, a longtime side pursuit; one of his horses, Jaklin Klugman, finished third in the 1980 Kentucky Derby. But with therapy he regained his voice and returned to the stage, appearing with Mr. Randall in a benefit performance of ''The Odd Couple'' in 1991.
He and Mr. Randall also reunited for a 1997 revival of ''The Sunshine Boys,'' Neil Simon's comedy about a couple of crotchety old vaudevillians, produced on Broadway by Mr. Randall's repertory company, the National Actors Theater. In 2005, the year after Mr. Randall died, Mr. Klugman published ''Tony and Me,'' a memoir.
Mr. Klugman, who always said he preferred acting in the theater, recalled initially turning down the television role in ''The Odd Couple.'' He wanted to do a play instead. But when the play quickly closed, he reconsidered; he needed the money.
Even so, Mr. Klugman wasn't known as a comic actor, and by then Mr. Randall wanted Mickey Rooney for the role of Oscar. It took the producer, Garry Marshall, to persuade Mr. Randall that Mr. Klugman was right for the part. He had seen Mr. Klugman do comedy, Mr. Marshall said, referring to his performance in ''Gypsy.''
''He said, 'I saw you with Ethel Merman, and she was singing to you and spitting all over you,' '' Mr. Klugman said, recalling Mr. Marshall's explanation for casting him. '' 'And you never showed it. That's a good actor that doesn't show the spit.' That's why he gave me the part.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jack Klugman as Juror No. 5 in the film ''12 Angry Men'' (1957) and as the title character in the NBC series ''Quincy, M.E.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY UNITED ARTISTS, VIA EVERETT COLLECTION
NBCUNIVERSAL, VIA GETTY IMAGES)
 Mr. Klugman in 1972 as Oscar Madison in the ABC sitcom ''The Odd Couple,'' opposite Tony Randall as Felix Unger. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ABC, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); CELEBRITIES (90%); AUTOPSIES (89%); JURY TRIALS (83%); FILM (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (77%); PATHOLOGY (77%); FORENSICS (77%); MURDER (76%); SMOKING (76%); STEPPARENTS (71%); HEAD & NECK CANCER (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (67%) CALIFORNIA, USA (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



859 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1044 words

HEADLINE: A Start-Up Sees a Gold Rush Among the Stars

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
BELLEVUE, Wash. -- The job description and title, ''Chief Asteroid Miner,'' are not what you are likely to come across on a job-search Web site. Besides, the position is taken. Chris Lewicki, the president of Planetary Resources, a company based in this city just east of Seattle, has it on his business cards.
''It's certainly an audacious thing that we're after,'' said Mr. Lewicki, 38. 
Lots of small start-up companies have stars in their eyes, captivated by entrepreneurial dreams -- some half-baked, some brilliant, often a bit of both -- of global success and riches. Here, at least the part about the stars is literal.
In an otherwise unremarkable low-rise office park, with the Bread of Life Christian Church and a gym as neighbors, Mr. Lewicki and about 30 employees are aiming beyond Earth for the next great gold rush. (They are actually after the platinum group of metals, which dwarf gold in value and rarity.)
They are planning, within a decade or so, an unmanned robotic mining mission to the asteroid belt.
The idea is not new. Space exploration enthusiasts have talked about harvesting the ancient, mineral-laden chunks of rock that hurtle through interplanetary space since at least the 1920s. A decade ago, in the frothy go-go era before the recession, an asteroid mining company was started and sold shares to the public before crashing to earth and going out of business.
What is new is the money and backing from people with global reputations who have said they think Planetary Resources has the right stuff. The company, quietly founded in 2010 and rarely seeking any attention until recently, has the filmmaker James Cameron as an adviser. Larry Page and Eric E. Schmidt, top executives at Google, are among the investors.
Of course, as millions of moviegoers know, resource extraction efforts ended in tears for the miners in Mr. Cameron's space epic ''Avatar.'' Those miners sought something called unobtanium, whatever that was, on a faraway moon. Mr. Cameron did not respond to e-mailed questions or repeated requests for an interview.
But company leaders at Planetary Resources said in an interview that their business model would be based on the journey itself. Creating a company that could one day launch ships into the unknown darkness of space, and, rather like the shipping magnates of sailing and whaling days past, wait years for a booty-laden return means selling space technology along the way -- much of which will have to be invented -- to help finance the dream.
The company is developing its own orbital telescope, for example, geared to survey remote asteroids to figure out what they are made of, with a planned launching within two years. But it also plans to produce the devices commercially, with a price in the single-digit millions, for corporations, governments or individuals. The idea, company officials said, is to finance finding and mining asteroids by selling, in a sense, the shovels and picks.
''The engineering in many cases has been solved,'' said Mr. Lewicki, who spent 10 years at NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory before joining Planetary Resources. ''What will settle the winners from the laggards will be who can find the best economic model.''
The economics of space, said Eric Anderson, a founder of the company, also look increasingly different as the costs and complications of resource extraction here on Earth have soared. Getting deep-sea oil off the coast of Brazil, for example, is expected to cost billions before the first barrel is pumped, he said, which makes the ''single-digit billions,'' which Mr. Anderson estimates his company will ultimately need to launch a prospecting ship and return within the next decade, a much less daunting number.
''These are on the scale of the kind of resource dollars that get spent on Earth to bring something on line,'' he said. ''The private equity markets are used to that.''
People here are very excited about water, too. Recently published discoveries that water is more prevalent in the nearby universe than previously believed have become part of the plan here, because water can be distilled to hydrogen, allowing -- at least in theory -- an asteroid ship to travel light, making its own fuel on site for the return trip. Water has been found even on Mercury, locked in ice on the poles of the hottest planet in the solar system, nearest the sun.
''It's a really interesting mixture of the highly technical and highly primitive,'' said Mark V. Sykes, the chief executive and director of the Planetary Science Institute, a 40-year-old private nonprofit research organization based in Tucson. Dr. Sykes described how a spacecraft might dock on an asteroid with sophisticated technology and then use simple concentrated sunlight to make fuel for the long slow voyage home, perhaps by solar sail.
But while some scientists like Dr. Sykes, who has advised Planetary Resources on asteroid science, said they thought the company could indeed one day go where no mining company has gone before, skeptics said they thought the timeline for making a trip out and back, with something to sell at the end, could be far longer and more expensive than company officials thought.
''They look like rocks, like you could reach out and break off a piece, but they are almost certainly rubble piles,'' said Erik Asphaug, a professor of planetary science at Arizona State University who studies asteroids. With unstable, unconsolidated interiors and no gravity to speak of in most nearby asteroids, many of which are about the size of a city block, a ship would not be able to land at all in a traditional sense, but instead would have to dock as though with a space station and then lock itself onto the asteroid to keep from bouncing back into space. The details are devilish and could take decades, in his opinion, if not a century, to solve.
Then there is the question of saving us from the Big One.
Relatively little money is being spent now on developing tools that could avert or destroy a large asteroid discovered to be on a collision course with Earth, Professor Asphaug said. But if one day a threat were to emerge, he added, the company or companies that know most about asteroids could suddenly be quite popular with the world's governments -- not for riches, but rescue.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, a conceptual rendering of spacecraft developed and operated by Planetary Resources mining an asteroid near Earth. Above, a news conference in Seattle in April by, from left, Eric Anderson, a co-founder of the company
Chris Lewicki, its president
and Tom Jones, an adviser. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PLANETARY RESOURCES, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS
 ELAINE THOMPSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PLANETS & ASTEROIDS (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); STARTUPS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (78%); SPACE EXPLORATION (78%); MINES & MINING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); SPACE INDUSTRY (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); ASTRONOMY & SPACE (72%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%); JAMES CAMERON (65%); LARRY PAGE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%) WASHINGTON, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



860 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1244 words

HEADLINE: A Conservative Case for the Welfare State

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: Conservatives who oppose many social-welfare programs misunderstand both their origin and their efficiency, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
At the root of much of the dispute between Democrats and Republicans over the so-called fiscal cliff is a deep disagreement over the welfare state. Republicans continue to fight a long-running war against Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and many other social-welfare programs that most Americans support overwhelmingly and oppose cutting.
Republicans in Congress opposed the New Deal and the Great Society, but Republican presidents from Dwight D. Eisenhower through George H.W. Bush accepted the legitimacy of the welfare state and sought to manage it properly and fund it adequately. When Republicans regained control of Congress in 1994 they nevertheless sought to repeal the New Deal and Great Society programs they had always opposed. 
Energized by their success in abolishing the principal federal welfare program, Aid to Families With Dependent Children, in 1996, Republicans tried to abolish Social Security as well, through partial privatization during the George W. Bush administration, and they more recently have attempted to change Medicaid into a block grant program with funds going to the states and to turn Medicare into a voucher program.
In the 40th anniversary edition of his book, "Capitalism and Freedom," Milton Friedman advised conservatives to use crises as opportunities to advance their agenda. "Only a crisis - actual or perceived - produces real change," he contended.

Thus Republicans are now using the fiscal impasse to try to raise the age for Medicare and reduce Social Security benefits by changing the index used to adjust them for inflation. They know that such programs will be easier to abolish in the future if the number of people who qualify can be reduced and benefits are cut so that privatization becomes more attractive.
This is foolish and reactionary. Moreover, there are sound reasons why a conservative would support a welfare state. Historically, it has been conservatives like the 19th century chancellor of Germany, Otto von Bismarck, who established the welfare state in Europe. They did so because masses of poor people create social instability and become breeding grounds for radical movements.
In postwar Europe, conservative parties were the principal supporters of welfare-state policies in order to counter efforts by socialists and communists to abolish capitalism altogether. The welfare state was devised to shave off the rough edges of capitalism and make it sustainable. Indeed, the conservative icon Winston Churchill was among the founders of the British welfare state.
American conservatives, being far more libertarian than their continental counterparts, reject the welfare state for both moral and efficiency reasons. It creates unhappiness, they believe, and inevitably becomes bloated, undermining incentives and economic growth.
One problem with this conservative view is its lack of an empirical foundation. Research by Peter H. Lindert of the University of California, Davis, shows clearly that the welfare state is not incompatible with growth while providing a superior quality of life to many of those left to sink or swim in America.
In a new paper for the New America Foundation, Professor Lindert summarizes his findings. He points out that there are huge efficiencies in providing pensions and health care publicly rather than privately. A main reason is that in a properly run welfare state, benefits are nearly universal, which eliminates vast amounts of administrative overhead necessary to decide who is entitled to benefits and who isn't, as is the case in America, and eliminates the disincentives to work resulting from benefit phase-outs.
A 2003 study in the New England Journal of Medicine found that Canada's single-payer health system had less than a third of the per-capita administrative cost of the United States system, with its many private insurance companies and overlapping government programs - $307 per year in Canada versus $1,059 in the United States. And although American conservatives are fond of pointing to cases where Canadians come to the United States for treatment, a 2009 Harris poll found that 82 percent of Canadians favor their health system over the American one.
Americans believe that their health system is the best in the world, but in fact it is not. According to the Commonwealth Fund, many countries achieve superior health quality at much lower cost than paid by Americans. A detailed study of the United States and England in the American Journal of Epidemiology in 2011 found that over a lifetime the English have better health than Americans at a fraction of the cost.
The one area where the United States tops all other countries in terms of health is cost. According to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the United States spent more than any other country - 17.4 percent of gross domestic product on health in 2009, 8.3 percent through government programs such as Medicare and 9.1 percent privately. By contrast, Britain spent only 9.8 percent of G.D.P. on health, 8.2 percent publicly and 1.6 privately.
Thus, for no more than the United States already spends through government, we could have a national health-insurance system equal to that in Britain. The 7.6 percent of G.D.P. difference between American and British total health spending is about equal to the revenue raised by the Social Security tax. So, in effect, having a single-payer health system like Britain's could theoretically give Americans 7.6 percent of G.D.P. to spend on something else - equivalent to abolishing the payroll tax.
This is a powerful conservative argument for national health insurance. There are many other ways, as well, in which what the conservatives call bloated European welfare states are actually very efficient. This fact is disguised in commonly cited data for spending as a share of G.D.P. because so much social spending in the United States takes the form of tax expenditures, which are de facto spending.
The O.E.C.D. recently calculated net social spending in its member countries, taking account of tax expenditures and outlays that individuals are forced to make to compensate for the lack of commonly available public programs. On a gross basis, the United States ranks 23rd of 27 countries in the study, with social spending at 17.4 percent of G.D.P. versus an average of 22.4 percent. But based on adjusted data that accounts for tax expenditures, United States social spending rises to 27.5 percent of G.D.P., putting us in fifth place, well above the average of 22.2 percent.
American conservatives routinely assert that the people of Europe live in virtual destitution because of their swollen welfare states. But according to a commonly accepted index of life satisfaction, many heavily taxed European countries rank well above the United States, including the Netherlands (where total taxes were 38.7 percent of G.D.P. in 2010 compared with 24.8 percent in the United States), Norway (42.9 percent), Sweden (45.5 percent) and Denmark (47.6 percent).

        
The 'Go Fast' and 'Go Big' Fiscal Challenges
        
Evidence vs. Ideology in the Medicare Debate
        
Medicaid Expansion and Jobs
        
Define 'Welfare State,' Please
        
The Money Flow From Households to Health Care Providers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PRIVATIZATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); WRITERS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); FAMILY (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); TAX LAW (72%); TAX REFORM (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); GRANTS & GIFTS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); MEDICAID (56%) Bruce Bartlett; conservatives; fiscal cliff; health; health insurance; Medicaid; Medicare; Republicans; Social Security; U.S. health care costs; welfare; welfare state; Conservatism (US Politics); Federal Budget (US); Health Insurance and Managed Care; Social Security (US); United States Economy; Republican Party; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

PERSON: RON PAUL (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (71%)

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2012



861 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 25, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: The Triumphs and Failures of Deal Makers in 2012

BYLINE: STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF


HIGHLIGHT: It was a busy year for Wall Street, and the Deal Professor offers his choices for the best and worst deals of 2012. 

 BODY:
It is time to award the Deal Professor A's, the grade for the best deals and deal makers of 2012. Unfortunately, there were also a large number of F's this year. Here is the top and bottom of the class, in alphabetical order:
APPLE-AUTHENTEC Apple showed its secretive side, forbidding a $358 million acquisition, AuthenTec, from announcing the deal through a news release or any other public communication other than a brief statement in a securities filing. Apple also negotiated a "crown jewel" lockup with AuthenTec that scared off other potential bidders by giving the electronics maker the option to license almost all of AuthenTec's useful technology if another company acquired AuthenTec instead. Apple's heavy hand earns it an F.
 BURGER KING Burger King receives an A by going public not through an initial public offering but by selling itself to a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, co-founded by William Ackman's hedge fund Pershing Square. Burger King showed that SPAC's can be an alternative to a public offering for even large companies. According to SPAC Analytics, a research service, seven new SPAC's were announced this last year, raising a combined total of $362 million. Not bad for a structure thought to be dead after the financial crisis. 
 CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY'S PROXY CONTEST Mr. Ackman earns another A by bringing large-scale activist investing to Canada and shaking up the clubby investment community there. Canadian Pacific's board of old-line Canadians viewed him as a barbarian at the gate and resisted to the bitter end. But the company's shareholders preferred Mr. Ackman's money to high society. It is now trading around its all-time high, much better than J. C. Penney, another investment by Mr. Ackman, which has performed poorly.
 CHINACAST EDUCATION Perhaps the saddest deal story of the year. Ned L. Sherwood won a proxy contest with the ChinaCast Education Corporation, an education company based in China that is incorporated in the United States, but the ousted executives subsequently transferred all the company's valuable Asian assets, leaving Mr. Sherwood and the public shareholders with nothing but a lawsuit in China. The deal highlighted the risks of investing in Chinese companies.
Elliot Associates/Argentina The hedge fund and its cohorts earn an A for clever legal arguments and wrangling intended to force Argentina to pay off the country's defaulted bonds. While it remains to be seen if the fund will succeed, along the way it has managed to seize an Argentinian frigate in Ghana and made the "pari-passu" clause a conversation topic, while also raising fears the sovereign debt market would be thrown into chaos.
 GEORGIA GULF-WESTLAKE CHEMICAL Georgia Gulf's response to Westlake Chemical's unsolicited offer was, drop dead. Georgia Gulf subsequently agreed to buy the commodity chemical business of PPG Industry for $2.1 billion, and its stock price soared, thus earning Georgia Gulf's board an A. A number of other boards were also smart to just say no to hostile bids, including Prestige Brands' rejection of an amateurish offer from the Mexican pharmaceutical company Genomma Lab Internacional.
 HERTZ-DOLLAR THRIFTY It was a deal over two years in the making and it survived an initial shareholder rejection and a competing bid by Avis Budget Group. Hertz Global Holdings this year finally obtained antitrust clearance to buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group for $87.50 a share. In its first incarnation, Hertz had agreed to pay about $41 a share, meaning that Dollar Thrifty shareholders not only win an A, but a huge premium for waiting.
 THE HEWLETT-PACKARD AND YAHOO BOARDS It wasn't really a good year for either board but after years of F's, they each escape with an incomplete. The Yahoo board first resisted, and then capitulated, to a bout of shareholder activism by Daniel Loeb's Third Point hedge fund. The board and executive suite have been cleaned out. The question now is whether the new chief executive, Marissa Mayer, will earn her $117 million pay package and, alongside the new board, can turn things around.
As for Hewlett-Packard, I can only shake my head. The H.P. board had already been buffeted by scandal, including the firing of Mark Hurd as chief executive and naming Léo Apotheker as a replacement without meeting him. Then came the news that Mr. Apotheker's acquisition of Autonomy was being written off to the tune of $8.8 billion. But most of this happened before the board had largely turned over. It still remains to be seen if the new chief, Meg Whitman, and her board can make H.P. a Rocky-like comeback story.
KENNETH COLE The stock market correction in May and April let Kenneth Cole, another designer with a big ownership interest (like Millard S. Drexler at J. Crew, a recipient of an F two years ago) take his company private. Mr. Cole had to bump up his initial offer by only a quarter, earning him an F but keeping him very, very rich.
 MULTIPLE BIDDER DEALS One of the more interesting developments this year was the emergence of multiple buyers willing to work together to split assets. Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca, two strategic bidders, partnered to buy and split Amylin Pharmaceuticals 50-50. Similarly, Collective Brands was sold to three bidders, Wolverine World Wide, Golden Gate Capital and Blum Capital Partners, who divided the company's multiple shoe and clothing brands. (It was named Collective Brands for a reason.)
Both deals raised complex issues of bidder relationships, and Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca, in particular, were able to win a hot auction. For navigating these difficulties, the buyers get an A for teamwork.
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE European regulators thwarted a tie-up of Deutsche Börse and NYSE Euronext, shutting down a deal that would have relocated an American institution to Europe. But the A goes for persistence, since last week NYSE agreed to sell itself to the IntercontinentalExchange, thus saving a dying business model.
QUEST SOFTWARE The board of Quest Software wins the shareholder appreciation award and an A for its laserlike focus on shareholder value. Quest had agreed to a takeover by the private equity firm Insight Venture Partners and Quest's chief executive, Vincent Smith. This would typically end the matter, as an announcement of a management buyout tends to scare away other bidders.
So when Dell showed interest, a special committee of the Quest board gave Dell an incentive to make a competing bid by agreeing to issue an option that would let it acquire a 19.9 percent stake to offset Mr. Smith's 34 percent stake. This was to help ensure that the highest bidder won. Dell ended up paying more than 20 percent above what Insight and Mr. Smith had offered.
 RAILAMERICA-GENESEE & WYOMING Have a problem with your regulator clearing the deal? The two railroads earn an A for problem-solving. Genesee & Wyoming closed the deal by buying RailAmerica and placing it into a trust pending approval of the Surface Transportation Board.
 RALCORP It took two public acquisition offers before ConAgra was able to win over Ralcorp. Between the second and third offers, Ralcorp had consummated a value-creating spinoff of its Post cereals division. It gets an A for value creation.
VENOCO Timothy Marquez, chairman and chief executive of Venoco, a California oil company, was able to acquire his publicly traded company with favorable terms and no financing lined up, without resistance from the board. Mr. Marquez did manage to find his financing and complete the acquisition, and in doing so, imitated Tilman J. Fertitta, who took years to take private his own company, Landry's Restaurants. (Mr. Fertitta earned an F from me for that effort, too.) The board of Venoco earns an F.
Speaking of Mr. Fertitta, he was also busy this year, with Landry's buying McCormick & Schmick's, at a price 5 percent lower than his initial bid, as well as Morton's Steakhouse.
Happy New Year! Eat fish!

        
Exchange Sale Reflects New Realities of Trading
        
At the Big Board, Seeking Rejuvenation in Consolidation

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD INDUSTRY (94%); STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); HOLDING COMPANIES (92%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (83%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); BONDS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); DIVESTITURES (74%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); BOND MARKETS (68%) Apple Inc; AstraZeneca PLC; Autonomy Corp PLC; Avis Budget Group Inc; Blum Capital Partners; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; Burger King Corp; Canadian Pacific Railway Co; ChinaCast Education Corp; Collective Brands; ConAgra Foods Inc; Dell Inc; Deutsche Borse AG; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; Golden Gate Capital; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; Hewlett-Packard Company; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; J Crew Group; JC Penney Company Inc; McCormick & Schmick's; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; New York Stock Exchange; NYSE Euronext; Quest Software Inc; Venoco Inc; Westlake Chemical Corporation; Wolverine World Wide Inc; Yahoo! Inc; Apple Inc|AAPL|NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc|CAR|NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company|BMY|NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc|CAG|NYSE; Dell Inc|DELL|NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc|GWR|NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc|HTZ|NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company|HPQ|NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc|ICE|NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc|JCP|NYSE; NYSE Euronext|NYX|NYSE; Quest Software Inc|QSFT|NASDAQ; Venoco Inc|VQ|NYSE; Westlake Chemical Corporation|WLK|NYSE; Wolverine World Wide Inc|WWW|NYSE; Yahoo! Inc|YHOO|NASDAQ; Deal Professor; Hedge Funds; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: AUTHENTEC INC (90%); APPLE INC (85%); CHINACAST EDUCATION CORP (81%); CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY LTD (54%); WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORP (50%)

ORGANIZATION: Apple Inc; AstraZeneca PLC; Autonomy Corp PLC; Avis Budget Group Inc; Blum Capital Partners; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; Burger King Corp; Canadian Pacific Railway Co; ChinaCast Education Corp; Collective Brands; ConAgra Foods Inc; Dell Inc; Deutsche Borse AG; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; Golden Gate Capital; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; Hewlett-Packard Company; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; J Crew Group; JC Penney Company Inc; McCormick & Schmick's; New York Stock Exchange; NYSE Euronext; Quest Software Inc; Venoco Inc; Westlake Chemical Corporation; Wolverine World Wide Inc; Yahoo! Inc

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); CP (TSX) (54%); CP (NYSE) (54%); WLK (NYSE) (50%) Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Quest Software Inc; QSFT; NASDAQ; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Quest Software Inc; QSFT; NASDAQ; Venoco Inc; VQ; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Quest Software Inc; QSFT; NASDAQ; Venoco Inc; VQ; NYSE; Westlake Chemical Corporation; WLK; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Quest Software Inc; QSFT; NASDAQ; Venoco Inc; VQ; NYSE; Westlake Chemical Corporation; WLK; NYSE; Wolverine World Wide Inc; WWW; NYSE; Apple Inc; AAPL; NASDAQ; Avis Budget Group Inc; CAR; NASDAQ; Bristol Myers Squibb Company; BMY; NYSE; ConAgra Foods Inc; CAG; NYSE; Dell Inc; DELL; NASDAQ; Genesee & Wyoming Inc; GWR; NYSE; Hertz Global Holdings Inc; HTZ; NYSE; Hewlett-Packard Company; HPQ; NYSE; IntercontinentalExchange Inc; ICE; NYSE; JC Penney Company Inc; JCP; NYSE; NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE; Quest Software Inc; QSFT; NASDAQ; Venoco Inc; VQ; NYSE; Westlake Chemical Corporation; WLK; NYSE; Wolverine World Wide Inc; WWW; NYSE; Yahoo! Inc; YHOO; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (81%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (95%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



862 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 877 words

HEADLINE: Bahrain, a Brutal Ally

BYLINE: By ZAINAB al-KHAWAJA. 
Zainab al-Khawaja, an activist, was arrested and jailed earlier this month and charged with inciting hatred against the Bahraini government.

 BODY:
Isa Town, Bahrain
EARLIER this month, Aqeel Abdul Mohsen, 19, was shot in the face for protesting against Bahrain's government. He was covered in blood, with the lower side of his face blown open, his jaw shattered, and a broken hand hanging awkwardly from his wrist. It's one of those images that you wish you had never seen, and can never forget.
After more than 10 hours of surgery, and before Mr. Abdul Mohsen regained consciousness, his hospital room was already under guard by the police. Had he been able to speak, he might even have been interrogated before going into surgery. Others have lain bleeding without medical attention while government security agents asked questions like: ''Were you participating in a protest? Who else was with you?'' 
Bahrain, a small island nation off the coast of Saudi Arabia, has been ruled by the Khalifa family for more than 200 years. It is also home to the headquarters of the United States Navy's Fifth Fleet, which patrols regional shipping lanes, assists with missions in Iraq and Afghanistan and monitors Iran as tensions in the region mount.
The oppressed people of Bahrain joined the Arab Spring soon after the fall of President Hosni Mubarak in Egypt. With newfound hope, Bahrainis took to the streets on Feb. 14, 2011. Rich and poor, Shiite and Sunni, liberal and religious, they felt what it was like to speak freely for the first time in the capital, Manama, at a traffic circle with a pearl monument at its center. The Pearl Roundabout came to symbolize the Bahraini revolution.
But this newfound freedom didn't last long. The government's security forces attacked the peaceful protesters, then tore down the Pearl monument. And in March 2011, troops from neighboring Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates intervened to suppress our pro-democracy protests.
Going out on the streets, carrying nothing but a flag and calling for democracy could cost you your life here. Chanting ''down with the dictator'' could lead to your being subjected to electric shocks. Giving a speech about human rights and democracy can lead to life imprisonment. Infants have died after suffocating from toxic gases used by riot police. And teenage protesters have been shot and killed.
It's not unusual in Bahrain to find families with four or five members in prison at the same time. My father, Abdulhadi al-Khawaja, was beaten unconscious in my apartment in front of my family, as a report last year by the Bahrain Independent Commission of Inquiry documented. He was then taken away with my husband and brother-in-law; they were all tortured.
My husband was released in January, and my brother-in-law was released after a six-month sentence in late 2011; my father was sentenced to life in prison. He staged four hunger strikes; the longest lasted 110 days and almost cost him his life. (He was force-fed at a military hospital.)
But despite all these sacrifices, the struggle for freedom and democracy in Bahrain seems hopeless because Bahrain's rulers have powerful allies, including Saudi Arabia and the United States.
For Bahrainis, there doesn't seem to be much of a difference between the Saudis and the Americans. Both are supporting the Khalifa regime to preserve their own interests, even if the cost is the lives and rights of the people of Bahrain.
The United States speaks about supporting human rights and democracy, but while the Saudis send troops to aid the Khalifa government, America is sending arms. The United States is doing itself a huge disservice by displaying such an obvious double standard toward human rights violations in the Middle East. Washington condemns the violence of the Syrian government but turns a blind eye to blatant human rights abuses committed by its ally Bahrain.
This double standard is costing America its credibility across the region; and the message being understood is that if you are an ally of America, then you can get away with abusing human rights.
If the United States is serious about protecting human rights in the Arab world, it should halt all arms sales to Bahrain, bring Bahrain's abuses to the attention of the United Nations Security Council, support a special session on Bahrain at the United Nations Human Rights Council, and begin a conversation about potential diplomatic and economic sanctions. The Obama administration should also demand that high-level Bahraini officials be held accountable for human rights abuses, and that nongovernmental organizations, United Nations human rights investigators and journalists be allowed to enter the country and investigate abuses.
At present, the Bahraini government believes it has international immunity. It commits widespread human rights violations, and business continues as usual: the government continues to buy arms and negotiate lucrative deals, without having to face any real consequences. This is why the most prominent Bahraini human-rights defenders are languishing in prison. Until the United States starts to put real pressure on its ally, Bahrain's government has no incentive to change.
No matter the price, Bahrainis will keep demanding the very values -- human rights and democracy -- that the United States claims to stand for. It is an outrage that America continues to back a regime that tramples them.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); PRISONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (84%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BONE FRACTURES (77%); RIOTS (75%); FACIAL INJURIES (73%); FAMILY (73%); NAVIES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (66%); SENTENCING (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (65%); TORTURE (65%); RELIGION (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US NAVY (55%)

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAHRAIN (98%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



863 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: To Reach Younger Buyers, Vintners Think Outside the Bottle

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH OLSON

 BODY:
PERSUADING consumers to drink anything other than bottled wine is an uphill climb. Glass bottles are the gold standard, so newer brands are turning to sleek, eco-friendly containers and promoting them through social media to reach younger wine drinkers.
Those in the millennial age group, between 21 and 34, are the target because they have grown up drinking from plastic and are less wedded to traditional wine rituals. And some 51 percent of them drink wine at least once a week, according to data from the Wine Market Council. 
Already on some shelves is wine in boxes, in aluminum cans and in plastic. Last month, Southwest Wines in Deming, N.M., began selling wine blends in aluminum containers. Constellation Wines is offering its Black Box brand in mass market outlets like Costco.
As the industry broadens its offerings, some of the innovators are not vintners, but packaging experts who are bringing their expertise to the way wine reaches consumers.
Last spring, Stacked Wines, based in California, introduced individually packaged, stemless plastic cups, which stack vertically and contain chardonnay, merlot and other wines. Matt Zimmer, a mechanical engineer who worked in the bottled water industry for more than six years, came up with Stacked Wines' packaging.
''We see an industry trend to more convenient packaging,'' said Mr. Zimmer, Stacked Wines' chief executive. He began the company, in Anaheim, with M.B.A. classmates from the University of California, Irvine.
Another entrant in the wine business, Eric Steigelman, a graduate of the Rochester Institute of Technology, drew on his background in flexible product packaging to design a pouch for his Bonfire Wines.
''Millennials are interested in convenience and availability, and some areas like soup and baby foods have been moving to pouches,'' said Mr. Steigelman, in Chicago. ''Wine seemed to be an area that was looking for innovation, but little had been done.''
The biggest challenge to gaining consumer confidence has been overcoming the perception that wine should come only from a bottle. Wine in other packaging has long been lumped into the undrinkable or barely acceptable category, although some boxed wines are becoming more popular.
Wine drinkers tend to be explorers and frequently decide what to purchase while in the store, unlike other buyers of alcoholic beverages, who settle on their brands in advance, according to a study released this month by Nielsen North America Consumer Group.
New brands emphasize packaging for people who want lightweight, portable and easily consumed wine. Stacked Wines, which is expanding its distribution from California to 46 states starting in January, is using its national introduction as an opportunity to revamp its label to better explain its product, according to Jodi Wynn, a co-founder.
Stacked Wines' consumers simply unseal the package and drink, with no wine glasses or corkscrew required. The four sealed portions, made using the company's trademarked Vinoware, fit atop one another. Each holds the equivalent of a glass of wine, and the four combined equal a 750-milliliter bottle. There is no spoilage because the wine is packaged in individual amounts. The company charges about $15 for a stack.
For Bonfire Wines, Mr. Steigelman chose a pouch -- which prevents air from oxidizing and spoiling wine -- made from federally approved food-grade materials. The pouches are black with a broad stripe of vibrant color running horizontally, and were designed by Planet Studio, a design and marketing company in Atlanta.
To arrive at packaging that would be noticed amid the proliferation of bottles, Gene Keserica, Planet Studio's creative director, said his team chose fluorescent colors because ''we saw that as a way for the packaging to be eye-catching -- if you can make someone pause, that gives you a split second to get your message over.''
The label's look ''can have significant influence on a purchase,'' said David Turner, president of Turner Duckworth, a brand identity and packaging design agency in San Francisco and London. ''Beverage packaging is not purely functional, but a way of reaching your buyer.''
Bonfire Wines is highlighting the portability of its pouch for those who like to share the experience of drinking wine with others. To enhance interaction, Mr. Steigelman added a quick response, or QR, code to each pouch for mobile-phone-carrying buyers to react to what they are drinking and keep in touch with the brand.
The Bonfire wines are produced by Kevin McGuire, a California winemaker, said Mr. Steigelman, who has not yet set a price for them.
After tasting Bonfire's Ember sweet red wine blend or its Ignite sweet white wine blend, buyers can register their preferences for the next type of wine the company will offer.
Engaging the buyer is important because with such a profusion of label choices, wine buyers can be influenced by samples, promotions and advertising, according to the Nielsen study, titled ''Exploring the Alcohol Beverage Consumer's Mind-Set.''
Brands like Stacked and Bonfire (which is not yet on the shelves) have tiny marketing budgets. To generate, and keep, an audience of dedicated buyers, they are focusing on tastings at locations like local arts and music festivals, and on social media like Facebook, Pinterest, Instagram and Twitter.
After spending more than a year choosing his wine, packaging and design, and obtaining his liquor licensing, Mr. Steigelman is missing 2012's top alcohol sales period and will not be selling his pouches until spring.
''So few companies manufacture pouches,'' Mr. Steigelman sighed, ''and, for now, they are all booked up.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Expected to be introduced next spring, Bonfire wines are to be sold in pouches that are designed to be eye-catching and include quick response codes. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (94%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (90%); WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); BEER WINE & LIQUOR STORES (78%); BOTTLED WATER (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); TRENDS (76%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



864 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Richard Baum, 72, Dies; Connected China Watchers on the Web

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Richard Baum, who presided over Chinapol, an online discussion group about China that has become an essential forum for many experts, diplomats and journalists, died Dec. 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 72.
The cause was cancer, said his son, Matthew.
Dr. Baum, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, was an accomplished China scholar who wrote influential works on Mao Zedong and the period leading to the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s, as well as on the market-based policies promoted by Mao's successor, Deng Xiaoping. He advised top United States leaders, including the elder President George Bush, and he was often quoted by the news media as it tried to assess pronouncements from Chinese Communist leaders. 
But he had a particular affection for Chinapol.
In the 1990s, Dr. Baum spent parts of several years in Japan. He had a steady e-mail dialogue with several dozen other China experts, but keeping it going while he was overseas became increasingly expensive because of Internet charges, which were steep at the time. To save money, he started Chinapol, a Listserv group whose first members were mostly academics. The group steadily expanded to include ambassadors, business leaders and journalists -- all seeking insight and perspective as China rose as an economic and political power.
Participants had to be approved by Dr. Baum -- a recommendation from another member helped, as did an affiliation with a prominent news organization -- and advocacy, attacks and self-promotion were not allowed. Violators could be quickly culled, an intolerance that some joked evoked that of China's leaders.
''Rick was lovingly known as 'Chairman Rick,' '' said Clayton Dube, a longtime friend and colleague who leads the U.S.-China Institute at the University of Southern California.
The forum has been especially useful for journalists working in China. Although posts on Chinapol are confidential within the group, a reporter can contact a member separately to follow up on a post or to request permission to quote from it.
''Off-list replies welcome,'' a post might read.
Members can submit questions to the group, whether they are looking for articles on China's relationship with Iran or context for news at it develops.
Chinapol currently has about 1,300 members. Dr. Baum recently gave responsibility for moderating the forum to Mr. Dube and Richard Gunde, another longtime colleague at U.C.L.A.
''Online groups tend to burn out, burn up, become dominated by certain loud voices and in other ways eventually degrade,'' James Fallows, a national correspondent for The Atlantic who has written extensively about China, said in response to an e-mail about Dr. Baum and Chinapol. ''Through his careful selection of members and infrequent but firm policing of what he considered inappropriate discussion, Rick Baum allowed people from a wide variety of interests to share news, impressions and questions about China, in a way that left nearly all of them better informed.''
Richard David Baum was born on July 8, 1940, in Los Angeles. Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Karin Joffe; his daughter, Kristen Baum Wilcox; three grandchildren; and a brother, Steven. His children are from his marriage to Carolyn Paller, which ended in divorce. A sister, Wendy Moloshco, died in 2011.
Dr. Baum made his name early as a China scholar. As a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, in the 1960s, he gained rare access to classified documents that shed light on the inner workings of the Communist leaders there, and he went on to write extensively about them, including a 1975 book, ''Prelude to Revolution: Mao, the Party and the Peasant Question.''
Dr. Baum was director of the Center for Chinese Studies at U.C.L.A. He taught at the university for 44 years. Late in his career, he wrote and delivered ''The Fall and Rise of China,'' a 48-part video lecture that was published in 2010 as part of the Great Courses series. He published a memoir, ''China Watcher: Confessions of a Peking Tom,'' the same year.
In 2008, Dr. Baum was among more than 160 prominent scholars and writers who asked President Hu Jintao to release Liu Xiaobo, a well-known intellectual and dissident detained that year. Dr. Baum circulated a petition on Chinapol.
''While I have always tried to maintain Chinapol's political neutrality,'' Dr. Baum told The New York Times in an e-mail at the time, ''some violations are so egregious that I cannot, as a sentient being, remain neutral.''
Mr. Liu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010, remains in prison, serving an 11-year sentence for subversion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); CANCER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



865 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: Modern Dance Groups to Get Hurricane Sandy Aid

BYLINE: By DANIEL J. WAKIN

 BODY:
Among the huge outpouring of relief for damages from Hurricane Sandy nearly two months after it hit, a modest effort is on the horizon for the shoestring but vibrant world of modern dance in New York City. Starting in early January checks from $1,000 to $5,000 will go out to companies, choreographers and theaters knocked back on their heels by the destruction and flooding.
Dance/NYC, which provides support for troupes in the city and is a branch of the national dance service organization Dance/USA, is distributing the funds to those that can demonstrate some sort of loss, even if outlined in a general way. The most tangible kinds of need are damaged sets, like the ones designed by Isamu Noguchi for Martha Graham and her company that were submerged in the basement of Westbeth, the downtown artists complex. But companies can also ask for money to cover unpaid fees to performers because of storm-related cancellations, extra travel expenses when artists were stranded outside New York or lost ticket revenue for companies or rental fees at theaters. 
The Mertz Gilmore Foundation is providing $200,000 toward for the grants, which are being awarded, first come first served. The foundation is a major source of money for choreographers and dance companies in New York and was named after the philanthropic couple Robert Gilmore and Joyce Mertz -- Joyce, as in the Joyce Theater, a major dance performance space.
Lane Harwell, Dance/NYC's director, said about 40 applications have come in so far. Candidates include Brighton Ballet Theater, Dance New Amsterdam, Flamenco Latino, the Martha Graham Center of Contemporary Dance, the Paul Taylor Dance Foundation, Streb, the Kitchen and Thin Man Dance, according to Dance/NYC records.
The inclusion of high-profile names like Taylor, Graham and Streb and the small sums being made available point to the precarious financial condition of contemporary-dance groups, which still manage to survive through economic ups and downs.
Some choreographers are seeking money to make up for lost income at their day jobs. ''These dance makers are cobbling together their livelihood through work both in dance and outside of dance,'' Mr. Harwell said. ''Often these nondance sources are used by the artists.''
Flooding at Westbeth, along with deeply affecting visual artists who stored their work in the basement, also wiped out almost all of the materials used by John Jasperse, a choreographer who has presented work at the Brooklyn Academy of Music, the Joyce, Dance Theater Workshop and other places around the country. He also choreographs under the rubric Thin Man Dance Inc., one of the Dance/NYC applicants.
Mr. Jasperse said he lost most of the equipment, sets, props, costumes and archives for works dating back nearly three decades. He gave a very rough estimated value of $75,000 to $150,000 for the materials and said an exclusion for hurricane flooding in his insurance policy meant he was not covered.
''The greatest loss in terms of future work is equipment,'' he wrote in an e-mail. He provided an inventory that gives insight into the practical side of creating dance pieces: ''Power tools, lights, rigging hardware, manual tools, scenic track and associated hardware, compressors, video and audio equipment.'' Mr. Jasperse said he tended to reuse basic materials like tables and tubing structures.
The cost of replacing such items will only add another layer of costs to budgets for future performances, he added.
The choreographer Ralph Lemon, who programmed a three-week showcase of contemporary dance creators in the atrium of the Museum of Modern Art in September, lost archives, costumes and technical equipment held in a storage space on the Lower East Side, at 10th Street and Avenue D. The loss included many years' worth of archives and art work.
However, he struck an optimistic note, saying that his future work would not be greatly affected. ''Less stuff is less stuff,'' he said. ''The invaluable loss was irreplaceable, so the value remains elusive. Full circle moments are good.''
Mr. Lemon said he recovered a set of costume pieces for an imminent project and washed them, pulling them out of the dryer just before boarding a train for a show in upstate New York. ''I was lucky,'' he said. ''It could have been much worse. For many it was.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DANCE (93%); HURRICANE SANDY (91%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); DAMAGES (90%); THEATER (90%); CHOREOGRAPHY (90%); HURRICANES (89%); DANCE COMPANIES (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (86%); WEATHER (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); BALLET (77%); CHARITIES (76%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (71%); VISUAL ARTS (68%); VISUAL ARTISTS (68%)

ORGANIZATION: DANCE/USA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



866 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1336 words

HEADLINE: The Triumphs and Failures of Wall Street Deal Makers in 2012

BYLINE: By STEVEN M. DAVIDOFF. 
Steven M. Davidoff is a professor of law and finance at Ohio State University. His columns can be found at nytimes.com/dealbook. Follow @StevenDavidoff on Twitter.

 BODY:
It is time to award the Deal Professor A's, the grade for the best deals and deal makers of 2012. Unfortunately, there were also a large number of F's this year. Here is the top and bottom of the class, in alphabetical order:
APPLE-AUTHENTEC Apple showed its secretive side, forbidding a $358 million acquisition, AuthenTec, from announcing the deal through a news release or any other public communication other than a brief statement in a securities filing. Apple also negotiated a "crown jewel" lockup with AuthenTec that scared off other potential bidders by giving the electronics maker the option to license almost all of AuthenTec's useful technology if another company acquired AuthenTec instead. Apple's heavy hand earns it an F.
BURGER KING Burger King receives an A by going public not through an initial public offering but by selling itself to a special purpose acquisition company, or SPAC, co-founded by William Ackman's hedge fund Pershing Square. Burger King showed that SPAC's can be an alternative to a public offering for even large companies. According to SPAC Analytics, a research service, seven new SPAC's were announced this last year, raising a combined total of $362 million. Not bad for a structure thought to be dead after the financial crisis. 
CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY'S PROXY CONTEST Mr. Ackman earns another A by bringing large-scale activist investing to Canada and shaking up the clubby investment community there. Canadian Pacific's board of old-line Canadians viewed him as a barbarian at the gate and resisted to the bitter end. But the company's shareholders preferred Mr. Ackman's money to high society. It is now trading around its all-time high, much better than J. C. Penney, another investment by Mr. Ackman, which has performed poorly.
CHINACAST EDUCATION Perhaps the saddest deal story of the year. Ned L. Sherwood won a proxy contest with the ChinaCast Education Corporation, an education company based in China that is incorporated in the United States, but the ousted executives subsequently transferred all the company's valuable Asian assets, leaving Mr. Sherwood and the public shareholders with nothing but a lawsuit in China. The deal highlighted the risks of investing in Chinese companies.
Elliot Associates/Argentina The hedge fund and its cohorts earn an A for clever legal arguments and wrangling intended to force Argentina to pay off the country's defaulted bonds. While it remains to be seen if the fund will succeed, along the way it has managed to seize an Argentinian frigate in Ghana and made the "pari-passu" clause a conversation topic, while also raising fears the sovereign debt market would be thrown into chaos.
GEORGIA GULF-WESTLAKE CHEMICAL Georgia Gulf's response to Westlake Chemical's unsolicited offer was, drop dead. Georgia Gulf subsequently agreed to buy the commodity chemical business of PPG Industry for $2.1 billion, and its stock price soared, thus earning Georgia Gulf's board an A. A number of other boards were also smart to just say no to hostile bids, including Prestige Brands' rejection of an amateurish offer from the Mexican pharmaceutical company Genomma Lab Internacional.
HERTZ-DOLLAR THRIFTY It was a deal over two years in the making and it survived an initial shareholder rejection and a competing bid by Avis Budget Group. Hertz Global Holdings this year finally obtained antitrust clearance to buy Dollar Thrifty Automotive Group for $87.50 a share. In its first incarnation, Hertz had agreed to pay about $41 a share, meaning that Dollar Thrifty shareholders not only win an A, but a huge premium for waiting.
THE HEWLETT-PACKARD AND YAHOO BOARDS It wasn't really a good year for either board but after years of F's, they each escape with an incomplete. The Yahoo board first resisted, and then capitulated, to a bout of shareholder activism by Daniel Loeb's Third Point hedge fund. The board and executive suite have been cleaned out. The question now is whether the new chief executive, Marissa Mayer, will earn her $117 million pay package and, alongside the new board, can turn things around.
As for Hewlett-Packard, I can only shake my head. The H.P. board had already been buffeted by scandal, including the firing of Mark Hurd as chief executive and naming Léo Apotheker as a replacement without meeting him. Then came the news that Mr. Apotheker's acquisition of Autonomy was being written off to the tune of $8.8 billion. But most of this happened before the board had largely turned over. It still remains to be seen if the new chief, Meg Whitman, and her board can make H.P. a Rocky-like comeback story.
KENNETH COLE The stock market correction in May and April let Kenneth Cole, another designer with a big ownership interest (like Millard S. Drexler at J. Crew, a recipient of an F two years ago) take his company private. Mr. Cole had to bump up his initial offer by only a quarter, earning him an F but keeping him very, very rich.
MULTIPLE BIDDER DEALS One of the more interesting developments this year was the emergence of multiple buyers willing to work together to split assets. Bristol-Myers Squibb and AstraZeneca, two strategic bidders, partnered to buy and split Amylin Pharmaceuticals 50-50. Similarly, Collective Brands was sold to three bidders, Wolverine World Wide, Golden Gate Capital and Blum Capital Partners, who divided the company's multiple shoe and clothing brands. (It was named Collective Brands for a reason.)
Both deals raised complex issues of bidder relationships, and Bristol-Myers and AstraZeneca, in particular, were able to win a hot auction. For navigating these difficulties, the buyers get an A for teamwork.
NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE European regulators thwarted a tie-up of Deutsche Börse and NYSE Euronext, shutting down a deal that would have relocated an American institution to Europe. But the A goes for persistence, since last week NYSE agreed to sell itself to the IntercontinentalExchange, thus saving a dying business model.
QUEST SOFTWARE The board of Quest Software wins the shareholder appreciation award and an A for its laserlike focus on shareholder value. Quest had agreed to a takeover by the private equity firm Insight Venture Partners and Quest's chief executive, Vincent Smith. This would typically end the matter, as an announcement of a management buyout tends to scare away other bidders.
So when Dell showed interest, a special committee of the Quest board gave Dell an incentive to make a competing bid by agreeing to issue an option that would let it acquire a 19.9 percent stake to offset Mr. Smith's 34 percent stake. This was to help ensure that the highest bidder won. Dell ended up paying more than 20 percent above what Insight and Mr. Smith had offered.
RAILAMERICA-GENESEE & WYOMING Have a problem with your regulator clearing the deal? The two railroads earn an A for problem-solving. Genesee & Wyoming closed the deal by buying RailAmerica and placing it into a trust pending approval of the Surface Transportation Board.
RALCORP It took two public acquisition offers before ConAgra was able to win over Ralcorp. Between the second and third offers, Ralcorp had consummated a value-creating spinoff of its Post cereals division. It gets an A for value creation.
VENOCO Timothy Marquez, chairman and chief executive of Venoco, a California oil company, was able to acquire his publicly traded company with favorable terms and no financing lined up, without resistance from the board. Mr. Marquez did manage to find his financing and complete the acquisition, and in doing so, imitated Tilman J. Fertitta, who took years to take private his own company, Landry's Restaurants. (Mr. Fertitta earned an F from me for that effort, too.) The board of Venoco earns an F.
Speaking of Mr. Fertitta, he was also busy this year, with Landry's buying McCormick & Schmick's, at a price 5 percent lower than his initial bid, as well as Morton's Steakhouse.
Happy New Year! Eat fish!
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HARRY CAMPBELL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK OFFERINGS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (88%); EXTERNAL DEBT (83%); BONDS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); ELECTRONICS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (75%); CORPORATE DEBT (75%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (73%); LITIGATION (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (69%); BOND MARKETS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%)

COMPANY: AUTHENTEC INC (90%); APPLE INC (85%); CHINACAST EDUCATION CORP (81%); CANADIAN PACIFIC RAILWAY LTD (54%); WESTLAKE CHEMICAL CORP (50%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (85%); CP (TSX) (54%); CP (NYSE) (54%); WLK (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (90%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (85%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (85%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (85%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (85%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (81%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (81%); NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (54%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (54%); NAICS325998 ALL OTHER MISCELLANEOUS CHEMICAL PRODUCT & PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (94%); CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GHANA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



867 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: The Shale Revolution's Shifting Geopolitics

BYLINE: By ALAN RILEY

 BODY:
The shale energy revolution is likely to shift the tectonic plates of global power in ways that are largely beneficial to the West and reinforce U.S. power and influence during the first half of this century. Yet most public discussion of shale's potential either focuses on the alleged environmental dangers of fracking or on how shale will affect the market price of natural gas. Both discussions blind policy makers to the true scale of the shale revolution.
The real impact stems from its effect on the oil market. Shale gas offers the means to vastly increase the supply of fossil fuels for transportation, which will cut into the rising demand for oil -- fueled in part by China's economic growth -- that has dominated energy policy making over the last decade. 
There are two major factors in play here. First, the same shale extraction technology of horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing can be employed whether the rocks are oil-bearing or gas-bearing. We have already seen over half a million barrels of oil a day flowing from the Bakken field in North Dakota. The recent Harvard-based Belfer Center report -- ''Oil: The Next Revolution'' -- suggests that shale oil could be providing America with as much as 6 million barrels a day by 2020. The United States imported only 11 million barrels of crude oil a day in 2011. Given the potential for offshore and conventional domestic oil production, this would suggest that by 2020 America could be near energy independence in oil.
However, many supporters of energy independence miss a key point: The major geopolitical impact of shale extraction technology lies less in the fact that America will be more energy self-sufficient than in the consequent displacement of world oil markets by a sharp reduction in U.S. imports. This is likely to be reinforced by the development of shale oil resources in China, Argentina, Ukraine and other places, which will put additional pressure on global oil prices.
The second factor is the potential to use natural gas for transportation. Some analysts suggest that this will only be a realistic prospect for fleet and long-haul road transportation. But they are overlooking the immense advantage that natural gas has as a transportation fuel in America and Europe, which have both developed a natural gas infrastructure in urban areas that takes piped natural gas into homes, offices and supermarkets. Once gas is cheap and widely available, it is possible to consider dealing with the ''last mile'' problem of providing home refueling kits so consumers can fill up natural-gas powered cars in their own garages.
The incentives to develop shale oil and natural gas are very great. But so far, the United States has only experienced the first stage of low natural-gas prices and the reimportation of energy intensive industries such as chemicals and steel because of low gas prices. The next stage of the shale revolution's impact is going to be felt as major stimulus gets under way from lower oil prices. More broadly, the shale revolution will grant the United States a greater range of options in dealing with foreign states.
For the Europeans, the shale revolution is also largely positive. A greater variety of gas supplies from liquefied natural gas originally destined for the United States has been dumped in European markets; by 2020, shale gas in the form of liquefied natural gas is likely to begin arriving in Europe in significant quantities, and there is also the prospect of some domestic shale gas becoming available. Europe will also benefit from the second stage of the shale revolution as oil prices come under pressure.
However, American self-sufficiency in oil is of greatest concern to the European Union. The danger is that the United States will no longer have any direct interest in ensuring supply flows out of the Gulf. At the very least this will mean that Washington is likely to demand greater European investment in its own energy security. One option for the European Union is to develop natural gas transportation as an energy security hedge. This would also increase pricing pressure on oil producers.
China has even greater incentives to develop its shale gas resources. According to the U.S. Energy Department's Energy Information Administration, the country's recoverable resources are larger than those of the United States at 36 trillion cubic meters. The main geostrategic reason for Beijing to develop shale gas for transportation is that the U.S. Navy controls the Pacific and most Chinese oil arrives by tanker. Large scale use of natural gas for transportation would protect China from much of the effect of a U.S. blockade.
By contrast, the outlook for Russia and Saudi Arabia seems bleak. As the decade progresses, shale will be developed worldwide and natural gas infrastructures will be constructed. It is difficult to see how the markets will avoid dropping oil prices.
Geopolitically, the shale revolution strengthens the United States, reduces China's energy dependence, generates a major global stimulus, which takes the Western economies off the fiscal rocks, while potentially destabilizing both the Russian Federation and Saudi Arabia. We must continue to press ahead with it.
Alan Riley is a professor of energy law at The City Law School at City University London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (76%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UKRAINE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



868 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Iran Suggests Attacks on Computer Systems Came From the U.S. and Israel

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran reported a number of new cyberattacks on Tuesday, saying foreign enemy hackers tried in recent months to disrupt computer systems at a power plant and other industries in a strategically important southern coastal province as well as at a Culture Ministry information center.
Accounts of the attacks in the official press did not specify who was responsible, when they were carried out or how they were thwarted. But they strongly suggested that the attacks had originated in the United States and Israel, which have been engaged in a shadowy struggle of computer sabotage with Iran in a broader dispute over whether Iran's nuclear energy program is for peaceful or military use. 
Iran has been on heightened alert against such sabotage since a computer worm known as Stuxnet was used to attack its uranium enrichment centrifuges more than two years ago, which American intelligence officials believe caused many of the machines to spin out of control and self-destruct, slowing the Iranian program's progress.
Stuxnet and other forms of computer malware have also been used in attacks on Iran's oil industry and Science Ministry under a covert United States effort, first revealed in January 2009, that was meant to subvert Iran's nuclear program because of suspicions that the Iranians were using it to develop the ability to make atomic bombs. Iran has repeatedly denied these suspicions.
The latest Iranian sabotage reports raised the possibility that the attacks had been carried out in retaliation for others that crippled computers in the Saudi Arabian oil industry and some financial institutions in the United States a few months ago. American intelligence officials have said they believe that Iranian specialists in cybersabotage were responsible for those attacks, which erased thousands of Saudi files and temporarily prevented some American banking customers from gaining access to their accounts.
Defense Secretary Leon E. Panetta cited those attacks in an Oct. 11 speech in which he warned of America's vulnerability to a coordinated computer warfare attack, calling such a possibility a ''cyber-Pearl Harbor.''
The Iranian Students' News Agency said the country's Passive Defense Organization, the military unit responsible for guarding against cyberattacks, had battled a computer virus infection of an electric utility and other unspecified manufacturing industries in southern Hormozgan Province, home to a large oil refinery and container port in the provincial capital of Bandar Abbas.
The news agency quoted Ali Akbar Akhavan, the head of the Passive Defense Organization's provincial branch, as saying that ''with timely measures and the cooperation of skilled hackers in the province, the progress of this virus was halted.'' It was unclear whether any Iranian targets had been damaged.
Iran's Fars News Agency said a cyberattack had also been made against the information center of the Headquarters for Supporting and Protecting Works of Art and Culture, a part of the Culture Ministry, and that the attack had been ''repelled by the headquarters' experts.''
The Fars account said the attack originated in Dallas and was routed to Iran via Malaysia and Vietnam. It did not elaborate on the significance of that information, but noted that a broad array of Iranian targets had recently come under cyberattacks that were ''widely believed to be designed and staged by the U.S. and Israel.''
News of the latest cyberattacks came as Western economic sanctions on Iran have been tightening, while diplomatic negotiations aimed at resolving the nuclear dispute have remained basically stalled since June. There are expectations that a resumption of those negotiations will be announced soon, possibly next month.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); MALICIOUS SOFTWARE (90%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (78%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INFORMATION WARFARE (78%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); CENTRIFUGES (73%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (66%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (58%)

PERSON: LEON E PANETTA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (95%); ISRAEL (93%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



869 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1205 words

HEADLINE: Pay in Oil Fields, Not College, Is Luring Youths in Montana

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
SIDNEY, Mont. -- For most high school seniors, a college degree is the surest path to a decent job and a stable future. But here in oil country, some teenagers are choosing the oil fields over universities, forgoing higher education for jobs with salaries that can start at $50,000 a year.
It is a lucrative but risky decision for any 18-year-old to make, one that could foreclose on his future if the frenzied pace of oil and gas drilling from here to North Dakota to Texas falters and work dries up. But with unemployment at more than 12 percent nationwide for young adults and college tuition soaring, students here on the snow-glazed plains of eastern Montana said they were ready to take their chances.
''I just figured, the oil field is here and I'd make the money while I could,'' said Tegan Sivertson, 19, who monitors pipelines for a gas company, sometimes working 15-hour days. ''I didn't want to waste the money and go to school when I could make just as much.'' 
Less than a year after proms and homecoming games, teenagers like Mr. Sivertson now wake at 4 a.m. to make the three-hour trek to remote oil rigs. They fish busted machinery out of two-mile-deep hydraulic fracturing wells and repair safety devices that keep the wells from rupturing, often working alongside men old enough to be their fathers. Some live at home; others drive back on weekends to eat their mothers' food, do loads of laundry and go to high school basketball games, still straddling the blurred border between childhood and adulthood.
Just as gold rushes and silver booms once brought opera houses and armies of prospectors to rugged corners of the West, today's headlong race for oil and gas is reshaping staid communities in the northern Plains, bringing once untold floods of cash and job prospects, but also deep anxieties about crime, growth and a future newly vulnerable to cycles of boom and bust.
Even gas stations are enticing students away from college. Katorina Pippenger, a high school senior in the tiny town of Bainville, Mont., said she makes $24 an hour as a cashier in nearby Williston, N.D., the epicenter of the boom. Her plan is to work for a few years after she graduates this spring, save up and flee. She likes the look of Denver. ''I just want to make money and get out,'' she said.
The shift appears to be localized around centers of oil production like Sidney. School counselors in western Montana, far from the boom, said that few of their students were abandoning college for energy jobs. And even here, a majority of graduates are still choosing universities and community colleges.
But school officials in eastern Montana said more and more students were interested in working for at least a year after graduation and getting technical training instead of a four-year degree.
Last year, one-third of the graduating seniors at Sidney High School headed off to work instead of going to college or joining the military, a record percentage. Some found work making deliveries to oil rigs, doing construction and repairing machinery. Others decided to first seek training as welders or diesel mechanics, which pay more than entry-level jobs.
Meanwhile, enrollment at Dawson Community College in Glendive, about an hour from Sidney, has fallen to 225 students from 446 just a few years ago, as fewer local students pursue two-year degrees.
''It's the allure of the money,'' said Thom Barnhart, a guidance counselor at Sidney High.
As more families arrive from Florida and Michigan and throughout Montana, seeking a new start after bankruptcies and layoffs, schools in places like Sidney are buckling. School enrollment leapt to 863 students from 723 in three years. The district is scrambling to hire good teachers who can get by on a $32,000 yearly salary in a town where apartments can rent for $1,500 a month. Freshmen are sharing lockers, and the district reopened a school that had been shuttered for years.
But every year, hundreds of those new students depart within a few weeks, tugged along by parents heading off to another job in another town.
''It's a revolving door,'' said Daniel Farr, the district's superintendent.
At the end of a gravel highway in northeastern Montana, graduating seniors in Bainville are asking similar questions about their future. Should they get an education and pursue their interests? Or should they stick close to home and surf a wave of cash and jobs that will only grow as companies begin to build a new industrial rail terminal and worker camps, forever transforming this quiet farm town where residents say the population has doubled since the 2010 census found 300.
Dmetri Ross, 17, said he would join his father and uncle at an outpost of Nabors Industries in western North Dakota, working in a lab running tests on water samples and cement related to drilling.
''I'd be happy to make a career out of it,'' he said.
Renee Rasmussen, the Bainville school superintendent, said she worried about young people like these if oil prices plunged or the government passed new regulations limiting the fracking techniques that have driven this energy rush. If they go back to school, they could be hurt by the delay. A 2005 federal Department of Education report showed that students who delayed college were more likely to drop out.
School officials said that few teenagers were working directly for energy companies. Instead, they are working with the wide range of support companies that excavate, build and maintain the wells, or, in a race with the dizzying pace of growth, construct the hotels, apartments and camps for employees. Starved for workers, many companies offer $20 an hour to start, plus benefits.
''They've come here looking for dropouts in the past,'' said Bruce Clausen, the principal of Dawson County High School in Glendive, who said that a few students had gone to work in the oil fields after dropping out. ''I told them I appreciate them not coming out here.''
Nobody needed to recruit Shay Findlay. One day after he graduated from Sidney High School, he drove into town and started looking for work. He found a job on the first try, doing repair work on drilling pumps.
He is 19 and on his second job now, earning about $40,000 a year and still sleeping in a bedroom in his parents' basement decorated with his high school graduation picture and diploma. He bought a dirt bike and a flat-screen television, and took out a loan on a hulking black Chevy Silverado truck with personalized license plates -- FDLSTIX -- for his childhood nickname, Fiddlesticks.
His mother, Stacy Gustafson, said she worried about exposing her son to the accidents, alcoholism and violence that haunt oil workers. She is glad he still comes home after each shift. Mr. Findlay said he had no complaints about the job. His family comes from the oil fields, and he said he liked the work and was good at it.
Now, his friends are filtering back to Sidney after their first semesters at college, and their stories of dorm-room dramas and drunken scuffles with campus police officers are like reports from another world. He said he misses them sometimes, but would not trade places with them.
''They're going to have to come back and look for work,'' he said. ''And there's nothing but oil fields over here.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Shay Findlay, above, is 19 and earns $40,000 a year at his second job since graduating from high school. Renee Rasmussen, below, the school superintendent in Bainville, Mont., worries about potential effects of a downturn in the booming energy industry. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ADOLESCENTS (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (77%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (77%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (77%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (73%); ACADEMIC COUNSELING (73%); GAS STATIONS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); BASKETBALL (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTANA, USA (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



870 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Obama to Leave Hawaiian Vacation Early to Work on Fiscal Deal

BYLINE: By JEREMY W. PETERS

 BODY:
KAILUA, Hawaii -- President Obama is planning to cut his Christmas vacation short and return to Washington to make a last-ditch push for a compromise on a tax and spending dispute that remains stubbornly unresolved. 
The White House said Tuesday that the president would leave Wednesday night. His family, however, will stay behind in Hawaii.
Meanwhile, both chambers of Congress will come back from their holiday hiatus on Thursday and return to work. While there are growing signs that some members of both parties are prepared to accept a deal that raises taxes on people at the highest income levels, there is considerable distance between Republicans and Democrats and no guarantee that an agreement could pass.
The president and Congress left Washington late last week after House Republicans rejected a plan that would have left tax rates in place for all but those with incomes above $1 million.
Mr. Obama has since called for a less ambitious approach to avoid the ''fiscal cliff'' on Jan. 1, when a series of automatic budget cuts and tax increases will go into effect if Congress and the White House cannot come up with another course of action.
The White House has been seeking a resolution through talks with Senate Democrats, who control the chamber and have gained the tacit support of some Republican colleagues.
But the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, has given no indication that his members would not seek to block a deal that includes tax increases.
The main obstacle remains the Republican-led House, where a bloc of conservatives has ruled out any tax increases whatsoever.
Over the last four days, Mr. Obama has had a placid and uneventful vacation of golfing, hiking and exercising on a military base here on the island of Oahu, where he was raised and usually spends the holidays.
But Tuesday was likely to be his last day of solitude for a while. With a fiscal deal still out of reach, the president can ill afford the public relations problems that would arise from being on vacation while the country heads uncertainly toward a deadline that could have a serious impact on the financial markets and the economy.
On Tuesday, the Obamas had a quiet morning of opening presents and singing Christmas carols at their vacation house here on the southeastern tip of Oahu. Mr. Obama hit the gym around 10 a.m. Then in the afternoon, he and Michelle Obama made the five-minute trip down the road to the Marine Corps base where he thanked service members and their families and posed for pictures.
''So many of you make sacrifices day in and day out on behalf of our freedom,'' he told a mess hall filled with several hundred people. ''Not only do those in uniform make sacrifices, but I think everybody here understands the sacrifices that families make each and every day as well.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); CHRISTMAS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MILITARY BASES (86%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MILITARY DEPENDENTS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); CONSERVATISM (69%); GOLF (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%); ISLANDS & REEFS (63%); BANKING & FINANCE (60%); MUSIC (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MICHELLE OBAMA (79%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



871 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: After Storm, Moving to Update a Mall at the South Street Seaport

BYLINE: By TERRY PRISTIN

 BODY:
Nearly two months after Hurricane Sandy devastated the South Street Seaport on the East River in Lower Manhattan, Dumpsters still line its cobblestone streets and nearly all of the stores west of Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive remain closed.
But the storm surge largely spared Pier 17, the seaport's long-maligned shopping mall to the east. The operators of the mall, the Howard Hughes Corporation of Dallas, say it escaped damage because it is three feet above the pier, which in turn sits well above the water. And so, the company, which holds the ground lease to the city-owned pier, is moving forward with its plans to transform its dated festival marketplace into an open and airy three-story retail and entertainment center.
The local community board voted last month to support the proposal, despite reservations about the signage and some other design features. Though the plan is still working its way through the city's land use process, the developer's agreement with the city Economic Development Corporation requires that construction begin on July 1. David R. Weinreb, the chief executive of Howard Hughes, said in a telephone interview that the company would meet that deadline. 
After being blocked off by metal gates and closed until this month because of concerns about the stability of the pier, the mall is now open, though some stores are still closed. Inspectors from Halcrow, an international engineering company hired by Howard Hughes, recently determined that the structure was sound. The pier is south of the Brooklyn Bridge, just beyond Fulton Street.
''The pier got a solid rating,'' Christopher J. Curry, a senior executive vice president at Howard Hughes, said in a recent interview at the company's offices on Fulton Street. City officials confirmed that no problems were found at the pier.
In addition to Pier 17, the company controls 170,000 square feet of space farther inland at the seaport, including stores like Brookstone, Ann Taylor and Coach, which suffered extensive storm damage.
''We're working diligently to remediate the shops,'' Mr. Weinreb said. Asked whether the closed stores would remain at the seaport, he said, ''We're in discussions with our tenants about what is in their best interests. Many of those tenants enjoy very good sales and fully expect and want to be back open.''
From the mid-1980s to the early '90s, the seaport was a big draw, especially for young people, who crowded its bars and restaurants. But then it fell out of favor with New Yorkers, though it has remained a must-see for visitors taking in other downtown sites, retail specialists said.
The operators of the mall at Pier 17 have long wanted to give it more cachet with city residents. Shortly before the economic crisis, a previous owner, General Growth Properties, a mall developer, introduced a much more ambitious plan for the seaport, including a 42-story tower, which was unpopular with residents.
The Howard Hughes Corporation, which is primarily known for its vast master-planned communities like Summerlin, near Las Vegas, acquired the shopping center in 2010, when it was spun off from General Growth as the mall company was emerging from bankruptcy.
Completed in 1985, the Pier 17 shopping center was developed by the Rouse Company, the creator of marketplaces in Boston and Baltimore. (General Growth bought Rouse in 2004.)
But by the time the mall opened, the marketplace concept may already have been outmoded. The existing mall ''has basically been a disappointment to everyone over its life,'' Hardy Adasko, a senior vice president for planning at the city Economic Development Corporation, testified last week at a City Planning Commission hearing. His agency sees the redevelopment of the pier as a way of advancing its long-term investment in the waterfront, he said.
In contrast to the marketplace design, which was intended to shield visitors from the grittiness of the port, the new structure will capitalize on its waterfront location, offering abundant views of the bridge. Outdoor space on either side of the pier also will be enhanced.
But the community board and officials of the South Street Seaport Museum say Howard Hughes is impeding views of the river and the ships maintained by the museum by operating a seasonal stage near the pier during the warm months. Mr. Curry told commissioners, though, that the stage will remain.
The new structure will include two levels of glassy retail space that can each accommodate a store of 60,000 square feet -- a scale that is rare in Lower Manhattan.
On the floor below those two levels, shoppers will be able to wander through an unenclosed area designed to resemble a neighborhood of city blocks, said Gregg Pasquarelli, a principal in SHoP Architects, whose projects have included the nearby redeveloped Pier 15 and the new Barclay's Center in Brooklyn. SHoP is working with James Corner Field Operations, one of the designers of the High Line.
''The inspiration was an authentic street pattern,'' Mr. Pasquarelli said. ''Though you have the ability to move vertically you do not feel you are in a shopping center.'' In bad weather, glass doors will descend from the upper floors to provide protection.
A flat roof will replace what Mr. Pasquarelli describes as the faux historic gables on the existing structure. The developers have pledged that at least 10,000 square feet on the roof will be open to the public at all times. There will also be a space for events, but Howard Hughes has not decided whether to incorporate a removable enclosure so that it could be used year round, as the community board has requested.
In his testimony before the planning commission, Mr. Curry also promised not to lease space to big-box retailers like Walmart and said the company planned to install a ''world-class'' food market in the so-called Link Building, a 13,000-square-foot structure next to the pier that is part of the redevelopment plan.
But otherwise, in the year since it signed its redevelopment agreement with the city, Howard Hughes has spoken in only the most general terms about how it will fill the space at Pier 17 and has not said how much it plans to invest in the project. The developer initially hired Crown Retail Services to market the space, but the two companies parted company earlier this year.
Pressed by Amanda M. Burden, the planning commissioner, to describe the ''flavor'' of the tenants he was seeking, Mr. Curry said, ''Retail is an important element of the project, but will not dominate it.''
Mr. Weinreb said he was traveling extensively nationally and internationally to market the project to ''tenants unique to New York from all over the globe'' and ''great chefs from all over the world.''
But there will be competition, because Howard Hughes is marketing Pier 17 to tenants just as two other major retail projects are under way in Lower Manhattan.
Brookfield Place, the Battery Park City office complex formerly known as the World Financial Center, is updating its retail and restaurant space and planning to install a food market on the Hudson River waterfront in the style of Eataly in the Flatiron district. And Westfield is developing a 365,000-square-foot shopping center to be spread over multiple levels at the World Trade Center.
Elizabeth H. Berger, the president of the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business improvement district, said Manhattan below Chambers Street is ''underretailed,'' particularly for a rapidly growing residential population of 60,000. ''I think Lower Manhattan will only benefit from a density of retail experiences,'' she said.
Jeffrey D. Roseman, an executive vice president at Newmark Grubb Knight Frank, a brokerage, said an attraction like Cirque du Soleil might help Pier 17 withstand the competition. ''If they are able to figure out the right kind of tenant mix, then it could be a home run.'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering shows plans to transform the Pier 17 shopping mall, at left, at South Street Seaport into a three-story retail and entertainment center. Pier 17 was largely spared by Hurricane Sandy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SHOP ARCHITECTS
 FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANES (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (87%); HURRICANE SANDY (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); WEATHER (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (76%); PROPERTY LEASES (75%); LAND USE PLANNING (75%); CITIES (75%); ENGINEERING (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); CITY LIFE (70%); CITY GOVERNMENT (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%)

COMPANY: HOWARD HUGHES CORP (85%); GENERAL GROWTH PROPERTIES INC (50%)

TICKER: HHC (NYSE) (85%); GGP (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (85%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (85%); NAICS531120 LESSORS OF NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS (EXCEPT MINIWAREHOUSES) (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



872 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Idled City Airports Are Finding a Second Life as Housing

BYLINE: By CHRISTINE NEGRONI

 BODY:
DENVER -- When excavators digging on the land that was formerly Denver's Stapleton Airport unearthed an old Cessna, J. W. Duff, the 86-year-old owner of the J. W. Duff Aircraft Company was not surprised. ''Lots of planes'' were disposed of by burial when the airport was still in operation, Mr. Duff said. Finding something unexpected is just one of the many challenges of turning idled airports into something else.
Stapleton's journey from in-town airport to one of the city's newest planned residential communities began more than a decade ago when it was replaced by Denver International Airport, which was built 12 miles out of town in the middle of a vast prairie with no residential neighbors to be bothered by its noise. Repurposing a large civilian airfield like Stapleton had not been done before in the United States.
But over the last decade the mixed-use community that has been developed there and one like it in Austin, Tex., are seen as examples of how problematic properties can be successfully converted. And these developments are being closely watched, as growing demand for air travel puts pressure on other urban airports with little space to grow. 
''Airport repurposing is a rare event driven by unique local circumstances,'' said Chris Oswald, vice president for safety and regulatory affairs for Airports Council International.
In Malmo, Sweden, the Bulltofta Airport built in 1923 was used for commercial passenger service until the 1970s, when Sturup Airport was built and the Bulltofta site was turned into a shopping and entertainment complex. Hong Kong's downtown Kai Tak, made obsolete in 1998 with the opening of the new Hong Kong International Airport, will soon be turned into a cruise ship port, stadium and residential community.
With the development less than halfway complete at Stapleton, 4,000 residences have already been sold and 13,000 people now call the community home.
The common thread for all these projects, Mr. Oswald said, is the availability of an alternative airport with greater capability. ''The availability of such sites is very rare, and the combined political and financial will to make use of them is even rarer,'' he said.
The land developers behind the Denver and Austin projects agree. For all the unique problems with turning highly specialized industrial property into a place people can call home, they could not have succeeded without cooperation from a multitude of entities, including politicians, bureaucrats and residents.
''It's very important to have an alignment with all the interests in the very beginning,'' said James Chrisman, senior vice president of Forest City Stapleton Inc. which is in year 12 of its 25-year development in Denver. ''Projects go different directions, cities turn over. We've worked with three mayors, the economy changes,'' he said. ''You need a strong foundation of a plan and a vision that everyone is committed to, to survive all those ups and downs that occur.''
Forest City Enterprises agreed to buy nearly 4,700 acres from the city of Denver as the development proceeded. When complete it will include 8,000 single-family homes, 4,000 apartments, 12 million square feet of office and retail space and 1,100 acres of parks. Significantly for the city of Denver, the new community has helped to reverse declining property around Stapleton.
''You have to remember there were planes that were 15-20 feet above the houses,'' Mr. Chrisman said during an interview in the developer's office located not far from the site of the landing area he was describing.
''There was a landing strip on the other side. They were coming right over those houses and landing.''
In giving Stapleton a new purpose, Forest City joins with just a few other real estate companies. When the Robert Mueller Municipal Airport in Austin, Tex., closed in 1999, the California-based Catellus was hired to turn 700 acres of runway, terminal and parking into a similar mixed-use community called Mueller.
''You look at this great piece of land that is the doughnut hole of a city, it begs to be a great mixed-use redevelopment opportunity,'' said Gregory Weaver, executive vice president of Catellus.
Mr. Weaver said that in the last few years, officials from Finland, Costa Rica, Australia and several other countries had toured Mueller to see the residential, retail and commercial community that incorporates historic structures from the airport, including a World War II-era hangar.
Even those visitors without immediate plans to decommission their own airports are told that this kind of project is burdened with complications, not least of which is the cost of building a replacement airport and eliminating the remains of the old one.
Catellus got into the land redevelopment business 40 years ago when the rail industry faced similar circumstances. ''Contaminated railroad sites are similar to the airports of today,'' Mr. Weaver said. In both cases, the question is: ''How do you take old industrial sites with a number of issues, get them cleaned up and turn them into great mixed-use developments?''
While some civilian airports are bursting out of their seams with nowhere to go, the opposite has been the case for the nation's military airfields. Over the last two decades, many large bases have closed, and it is more common to see these sites turned into residential communities, because some housing already exists and fewer governmental agencies are involved.
At the former Lowry Air Force Base, not far from Stapleton, families living in some of the 4,500 homes there take their children ice skating at a former hangar, or drop by the senior center that used to be military barracks. Catellus is working on turning former bases in Glenview, Ill., and Alameda, Calif., into useful civilian facilities.
No organization tracks how many decommissioned airports around the world have found a second life, but even without numbers, the concept is controversial. Paul Freeman, a pilot who maintains an online archive of former airports in the United States, says civic leaders look at airfields and see dollar signs. ''Smaller cities can exercise short-term financial gain by selling off to developers,'' he said. ''It's a one-time plus on the balance sheet, but the community loses a net long-term resource.''
Airport experts say it is difficult to know how many communities will eventually choose to move airports out of urban areas and into the remote countryside or even if turning airports into new neighborhoods is a good or a bad development.
''Provided that the region's air services continue to benefit, I don't think we have a position,'' said Mr. Oswald, of the Airports Council. ''Speaking personally, I think it's kind of cool, a way to create a unique community.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: When its change from an airport is complete, Stapleton in Denver will include 8,000 single-family homes and 4,000 apartments.
 Mothers in the neighborhood guiding children home from school. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BENJAMIN RASMUSSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (94%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); AIRPORT OPERATION (78%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); LAND SUBDIVISION (73%); CRUISES (71%); POLITICS (70%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (69%); EXECUTIVES (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: AIRPORTS COUNCIL INTERNATIONAL (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) COLORADO, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); HONG KONG (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



873 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; THEATER REVIEW | 'WORKING'; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: It's Not Just a Job; It's a Musical

BYLINE: By DAVID ROONEY

 BODY:
The song ''Millwork,'' a haunting slice of blue-collar melancholia, has been recorded by its composer, James Taylor, and covered by artists from Emmylou Harris to Eddie Vedder, Bruce Springsteen to Bette Midler. But as performed with a gorgeous sorrowful twang by Marie-France Arcilla in ''Working: A Musical,'' at 59E59 Theaters, this evocative ballad belongs unequivocally to the woman standing before us: a mother of three who toils as an assembly-line steam-press operator in a luggage factory, reflecting on her ''wasted'' life.
Embellished with the choreographer Josh Rhodes's dreamily robotic movements, the song is the high point of this revised production of the 1977 musical, adapted by Stephen Schwartz and Nina Faso from the 1974 Studs Terkel book, ''Working: People Talk About What They Do All Day and How They Feel About What They Do.'' That seminal oral history compiles interviews with Americans across a broad spectrum of regions and occupations. 
More a revue than a book musical, the show features songs by a handful of composers. The original was a commercial misfire on Broadway, running for just 24 post-opening performances in 1978. But ''Working'' has gone on to have a robust life in regional, high school, college and community theater productions. In a country chronically obsessed with success, the musical's celebration of even the most seemingly marginal contributions as intrinsic elements of nation building gives it stirring resonance.
That quality shines even in an uneven presentation like Gordon Greenberg's production for Prospect Theater Company, in which the sociological too often gives way to the sentimental.
The writers and Mr. Greenberg have updated the material to acknowledge changes in working conditions and high unemployment: more tasks have become automated, more jobs have been outsourced and many artisanal skills have faded into obsolescence. Occupations like hedge-fund manager, tech-support assistant and philanthropic fund-raiser are now incorporated, though these elements frequently are given patronizing handling that seems out of character with Terkel's nonjudgmental project.
The show is best in intimate, contemplative mode: Donna Lynne Champlin as a veteran schoolteacher wondering how her methods became so ill-suited to today's unruly, overpopulated classrooms in the Mary Rodgers-Susan Birkenhead song ''Nobody Tells Me How''; or Kenita R. Miller vowing in Micki Grant's ''Cleanin' Woman'' that her daughter will break the family tradition of domestic work.
Three songs by Craig Carnelia are quietly affecting. In ''Just a Housewife'' Ms. Miller apologizes for the modesty of her role while reaffirming its importance; Jay Armstrong Johnson gives a soulful account of the pride that goes into stonework in ''The Mason''; and Joe Cassidy conveys the disconcerting loss of self-definition that retirement brings in ''Joe.''
In the more dynamically presentational numbers the material tends to flounder. Ms. Champlin is an accomplished musical performer, but her jazz-handsy, jokester waitress in Mr. Schwartz's ''It's an Art'' belongs in another show. The same goes for one of two new songs by Lin-Manuel Miranda, ''Delivery,'' a stridently peppy comic confessional by a McDonald's employee, sung by Nehal Joshi.
Mr. Miranda's other contribution, ''A Very Good Day,'' parallels the experiences of an elder-care worker (Mr. Joshi) and a nanny (Ms. Arcilla), both of them immigrants serving families other than their own. It's a touching mini-narrative, but it veers toward schmaltz, and again, is not quite in sync with the show's overall tone.
Beowulf Boritt's minimal set features a rear dressing room visible behind a scrim through which the actors can be seen preparing for their roles; theirs is a profession like any other. Mr. Greenberg underlines that connection by frequently having the cast members move between characters in full view of the audience, with Ms. Miller's housewife becoming a prostitute, or Mr. Cassidy's ironworker a money manager.
''Working'' has been called the nonshowbiz counterpart to ''A Chorus Line.'' Its journalistic roots are what make the show an intriguing piece of late-20th-century musical history, even if efforts to drag it into the 21st deliver mixed results.
Working
A Musical
From the book by Studs Terkel, adapted by Stephen Schwartz and Nina Faso with additional contributions by Gordon Greenberg; songs by Craig Carnelia, Micki Grant, Lin-Manuel Miranda, Mary Rodgers and Susan Birkenhead, Mr. Schwartz and James Taylor; directed by Mr. Greenberg; choreographer, Josh Rhodes; music supervision, orchestra and arrangements, Alex Lacamoire; sets by Beowulf Boritt; costumes by Mattie Ullrich; lighting by Jeff Croiter; sound by Jeremy J. Lee; projections by Aaron Rhyne; opening sound montage, Ray Nardelli and Joshua Horvath; production stage manager, Rebecca McBee; music director, Daniel Feyer. Presented by the Prospect Theater Company; Cara Reichel, producing artistic director; Melissa Huber, managing director. At 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. Through Sunday. Running time: 90 minutes.
WITH: Marie-France Arcilla (Terry Mason/Sharon Atkins/Grace Clements/Theresa Liu), Joe Cassidy (Mike Dillard/Rex Winship/Eddie Jaffe/Joe Zutty), Donna Lynne Champlin (Rose Hoffman/Candy Cottingham/Delores Dante), Jay Armstrong Johnson (Frank Decker/Conrad Swibel/Tom Patrick/Ralph Werner), Nehal Joshi (Freddy Rodriguez/Raj Chadha/Allen Epstein/Anthony Coelho/Utkarsh Trajillo/Charlie Blossom) and Kenita R. Miller (Amanda McKenny/Kate Rushton/Roberta Victor/Maggie Holmes).

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The company of ''Working: A Musical,'' an expanded version of the 1978 show that was based on a book by Studs Terkel. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARLI CADEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (89%); MUSIC (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); FAMILY (76%); ROBOTICS (75%); CHOREOGRAPHY (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); FUNDRAISING (70%); LUGGAGE MFG (70%); WRITERS (68%); HISTORY (67%); OUTSOURCING (67%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (62%); HEDGE FUNDS (61%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (53%)

PERSON: BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



874 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: Concerns About the Safety of Drilling

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In ''Sending Natural Gas Abroad'' (editorial, Dec. 16), you write that environmental concerns about fracking for gas should be addressed by tighter regulation, not by restricting exports. But the evidence shows that there is no amount of regulation that can make fracking safe. 
Cement in wells many thousands of feet under the earth cracks and leaks under the great pressure and temperature changes. No one can be sent thousands of feet under the earth to make repairs once this happens.
Industry documents show that 6 percent of the wells leak immediately and that 60 percent leak over time, poisoning drinking water and putting the powerful greenhouse gas methane into our atmosphere.
We need to develop truly clean energy, not dirty water created by fracking.
YOKO ONO New York, Dec. 16, 2012
The writer is a co-founder of Artists Against Fracking.
To the Editor:
Your editorial lauding the ''benefits'' of exporting liquefied natural gas misses the big picture. If President Obama approves more natural gas exports, it will mean more drilling and fracking for shale gas. This is inherently unsafe; the severe risks and costs of drilling and fracking can't be regulated away. That is why over 120 public health, faith-based, environmental and consumer groups have united under the banner of Americans Against Fracking.
Moreover, the report that the Department of Energy is using to evaluate export proposals sweeps under the rug the public costs of more drilling and fracking, and insults us with the argument that the benefits enjoyed by the oil and gas industry and its financiers will trickle down. The fact is that L.N.G. exports will overwhelmingly benefit oil and gas corporations and their major shareholders, not most Americans, and especially not communities that will be economically ravaged by this destructive process.
WENONAH HAUTER JIM DEAN Washington, Dec. 17, 2012
The writers are, respectively, executive director of Food and Water Watch and chairman of Democracy for America.
To the Editor:
Your editorial neglects a third, much larger opposition group that has very little money to devote to the conflict over fracking. That is the affected people in about 30 states who live where it is going on.
The industry and its financiers have managed to paint this vast, largely faceless group as unworthy of notice. We are landowners, hunters, retirees and others who choose to live in rural areas. Apparently, personal injury, loss of clean air and water, and the long-term damage to rural industries like agriculture, forestry and recreation are not highly regarded.
The world needs to be thinking about future resources, not a decade or two of gas and profit.
S. THOMAS BOND Jane Lew, W.Va., Dec. 16, 2012

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MAYUMI OTERO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (92%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (91%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (91%); EXPORT CONTROLS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); WRITERS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); POISONINGS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GREENHOUSE GASES (78%); METHANE (78%); LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); RURAL DEVELOPMENT (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (68%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); RELIGION (51%); SHAREHOLDERS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



875 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Cutoff Gradually Morphs Into Horizon

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Quick action by President Obama and Congress could still help the economy escape the full impact of hundreds of billions in tax increases and automatic spending cuts set to take effect shortly after the last minutes of 2012 tick away next week. But if the deadlock in Washington persists much longer than a few weeks, the consequences will quickly mount, economists warn.
Until late last week, most observers had expected the president and Congressional Republicans to come up with at least a short-term compromise before the year-end deadline. But the failure of Speaker John A. Boehner to win support for tax increases on the wealthiest Americans from fellow House Republicans has forced many economic observers to reconsider what might happen if political leaders remain deadlocked into 2013. 
Wall Street is still betting on a quick deal, but that confidence is misplaced, said Julia Coronado, chief North American economist at BNP Paribas. ''Markets have been incredibly complacent about this,'' she said. If a compromise cannot be found by Jan. 1, she said, ''the markets will take that hard.''
Some hits -- like a two percentage point increase in payroll taxes and the end of unemployment benefits for more than two million jobless Americans -- would be felt right away. But other effects, like tens of billions in automatic spending cuts, to include both military and other programs, would be spread out between now and the end of the 2013 fiscal year in September. These could quickly be reversed if a compromise is found.
Similarly, the expiration of Bush-era tax cuts on Jan. 1 would not have a major impact on consumers if Congress quickly agreed to extend them for all but the wealthiest Americans in early 2013, as is widely expected.
Other probable changes, like a jump in taxes on capital gains and dividends, would most likely be felt over a broader period rather than as an immediate blow to the economy.
In the meantime, more observers are contemplating what the impact will be if Washington ignores the year-end deadline and waits until January or February to act.
''It's still possible they will work something out by the end of the year, but the probability seems reasonably high that we may go into January with no agreement,'' said Dean Maki, chief United States economist at Barclays Capital. ''But the longer this goes on, the more nervous I get about first-quarter growth. If negotiations were to linger into March, then the first quarter could be much weaker.''
If the impasse lasted even longer and the full force of more than $500 billion in tax increases and spending cuts hit the economy, the Congressional Budget Office predicts the country would slip into recession in the first half of 2013, with unemployment rising to 9.1 percent by the fourth quarter of 2013. But for all the pessimism recently, most observers still think a compromise will be reached, even if it takes a few more weeks.
Negotiations are set to resume in the coming days, following a break for Christmas, although hopes for a so-called grand bargain have faded. Instead, President Obama is pushing for a scaled-back plan that would extend the Bush-era tax cuts on incomes below $250,000, while suspending the automatic spending cuts and extending unemployment benefits.
Michelle Meyer, senior United States economist at Bank of America Merrill Lynch, said there is a 40 percent chance of what she calls a ''bungee-jump over the fiscal cliff,'' with Congress failing to act until after Jan. 1 but eventually averting the full package of tax increases and spending cuts by mid-January. If that were to happen, she predicts a steep sell-off on Wall Street, which would quickly force political leaders to compromise.
Over all, Ms. Meyer estimates that the economy will grow by just 1 percent in the first quarter of 2013, well below the 3.1 percent pace recorded in the third quarter of 2012.
What's worrisome, she added, is that consumer anxiety about the fiscal impasse has begun to mount, catching up with business leaders who have been warning of economic danger since summer. ''What's been missing in this recovery has been confidence,'' she said. ''We'd see a healthy recovery if it weren't for this uncertainty and the potential shock from Washington.''
Indeed, the economy has been showing signs of life recently. Unemployment in November sank to 7.7 percent, a four-year low. Consumer spending has been picking up, and the housing market has continued to recover in many parts of the country. Overseas worries like slowing growth in China and recession in Europe have also faded.
Those trends have encouraged some observers, like Steve Blitz, chief economist at ITG Investment Research. He estimates that the economy will grow by nearly 2.5 percent in the first quarter if Washington comes up with even a modest compromise. In the absence of a deal, the pace of growth would be more like 1 percent, he said.
''I don't think that not having a deal going into the new year is all that critical,'' Mr. Blitz said. ''It doesn't mean you will immediately go into a recession.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: House Speaker John A. Boehner, right, with Eric Cantor. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. SCOTT APPLEWHITE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (73%); CORPORATE TAX (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (66%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (56%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (56%); BNP (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



876 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Premier Resigns, Making Way for a Predecessor

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda resigned Wednesday ahead of a vote in Parliament to return former Prime Minister Shinzo Abe to power, ending the country's three-year break from decades of near-constant rule by the conservative Liberal Democratic Party. 
The change in prime ministers is the seventh in six years, a high turnover that is a sign of Japan's inability to escape its long economic funk. Mr. Abe faces not only industrial decline but also the challenge of an increasingly assertive China.
An outspoken nationalist, Mr. Abe, 58, has vowed to defend Japan's control of islands in the East China Sea that are also claimed by China. However, since his party's landslide Dec. 16 victory, he has played down confrontation with Asian neighbors, and instead focused his agenda on lifting Japan's faltering economy out of recession ahead of upper house elections next summer.
Mr. Abe has vowed to move quickly to spur growth by offering 10 trillion yen, or about $120 billion, in public works and other emergency stimulus spending.
He has also promised to force the central bank to move more aggressively to combat deflation and to weaken the value of the yen, which would offer relief to beleaguered export industries by making Japanese products cheaper abroad.
The measures, called Abenomics by local news media, are intended to revive the economy ahead of the elections in June, which would help Mr. Abe's party also reclaim the upper house, giving it control of Parliament.
Mr. Abe has already appointed much of his cabinet, filling it with mostly relatively young and unknown faces.
While many of the appointees are Mr. Abe's friends, the fresh lineup is also apparently intended to emphasize that the party has changed since it was voted out in 2009.
The Liberal Democrats, who governed Japan for most of the past six decades, are widely blamed for presiding over Japan's so-called lost decades of economic stagnation and industrial hollowing.
Among the few veterans on the cabinet will be Taro Aso, 72, another former prime minister, who will return as finance minister and deputy prime minister.
The important post of foreign minister will go to Fumio Kishida, a 55-year-old former minister in charge of Okinawan affairs, who is expected to try to smooth ties with the United States frayed by a dispute over an American air base on Okinawa.
Mr. Abe will also face some early challenges, such as bridging a rift within his party over whether Japan should join a new regional free-trade pact led by the United States. Joining the agreement, known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership, is supported by business but opposed by farmers. Both are staunch backers of the Liberal Democrats.
Another challenge will be responding to China's stepped-up efforts to assert its claims to the disputed islands. Chinese government ships and more recently aircraft now make almost daily incursions into Japanese-controlled waters and airspace near the islands, with no signs of letting up.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); DEFLATION (76%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (76%); RECESSION (75%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); CURRENCIES (72%); CONSERVATISM (72%); EXPORT TRADE (70%); JAPANESE YEN (67%); CENTRAL BANKS (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (92%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (74%); TARO ASO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%) JAPAN (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



877 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1245 words

HEADLINE: Sidestepping Fiscal Showdown, Weaker Tea Party Narrows Focus

BYLINE: By TRIP GABRIEL

 BODY:
The Tea Party might not be over, but it is increasingly clear that the election last month significantly weakened the once-surging movement, which nearly captured control of the Republican Party through a potent combination of populism and fury.
Leading Congressional Republicans, though they remain far apart from President Obama, have embraced raising tax revenues in budget negotiations, repudiating a central tenet of the Tea Party. Even more telling, Tea Party activists in the middle of the country are skirting the fiscal showdown in Congress and turning to narrower issues, raising questions about whether the movement still represents a citizen groundswell to which attention must be paid.
Grass-roots leaders said this month that after losing any chance of repealing the national health care law, they would press states to ''nullify'' or ignore it. They also plan to focus on a two-decade-old United Nations resolution that they call a plot against property rights, and on ''fraud'' by local election boards that, some believe, let the Democrats steal the November vote.
But unlike the broader, galvanizing issues of health care and the size of the federal government that ignited the Tea Party, the new topics seem likely to bolster critics who portray the movement as a distraction to the Republican Party. 
''People in positions of responsibility within the Republican Party tolerated too much of this,'' said Fergus Cullen, a former chairman of the New Hampshire Republican Party. He blamed a backlash against ''tinfoil hat'' issues pushed by the Tea Party-dominated legislature in New Hampshire for the loss of a Republican majority in the State House last month and a near loss in the State Senate. Republican leaders ''looked the other way too often,'' he said. ''They sort of smiled, winked and nodded too often, when they should have been calling 'crazy, crazy.' ''
The movement is not going away -- most Republicans in the House have more to fear from primary challengers on their right than from Democratic challengers. An unpopular budget deal could reignite the Tea Party, as the antitax crusader Grover Norquist predicts.
But surveys of voters leaving the polls last month showed that support for the Tea Party had dropped precipitously from 2010, when a wave of recession-fueled anger over bailouts, federal spending and the health care overhaul won the Republicans a majority in the House.
The House members elected with Tea Party backing in 2010 forced onto the national agenda their goals of deep cuts to spending and changes to entitlement programs, embodied by the budget blueprints of Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, who became Mitt Romney's running mate. And some of those lawmakers led the revolt last week that prompted Speaker John A. Boehner to cancel a House vote on a plan to avert a year-end fiscal crisis by raising tax rates on household income above $1 million.
''The Tea Party put a lot of steel in the spine of the Republican Party,'' said Representative Tom Cole of Oklahoma.
But the Tea Party activists have not been front and center in the fiscal fight. And Mr. Cole added that Tea Party leaders now excoriating Mr. Boehner for offering higher taxes in a budget deal did not recognize political reality.
''These guys want instant success,'' said Mr. Cole, a member of the House Republican leadership. ''If they want to see a better result, they've got to help us win the United States Senate. We've thrown away some seats out of political immaturity.''
But a number of Republican leaders said the Tea Party seemed headed toward becoming just another political faction, not a broad movement. It may rally purists, but it will continue to alienate realists and centrists, they said.
''I think the Tea Party movement is to the Republicans in 2013 what the McGovernites were to the Democrats in 1971 and 1972,'' said Don Gaetz, a Republican who is the president of the Florida Senate. ''They will cost Republicans seats in Congress and in state legislatures. But they will also help Republicans win seats.''
Because the Tea Party comprises thousands of local groups, it is impossible to determine whether its ranks shrank after the many electoral defeats last month, which activists said caused grief and deep frustration.
Greg Cummings, the leader of the We the People Tea Party in rural Decatur County, Iowa, said his group had picked up 12 members since the election, for a total of about 50. ''If you were in a fight and someone gave you a good left hook, it doesn't mean the fight is over,'' he said.
But Everett Wilkinson, the chairman of the Florida Tea Party in Palm Beach County, said the number of active Tea Party groups statewide ''has diminished significantly in the last year or so, certainly in the last couple of months,'' with only a third of what there once was.
''A lot of people gave their heart and soul to trying to get Obama out; they're frustrated,'' he added. ''They don't know what to do. They got involved with the electoral process, and that didn't work out.''
FreedomWorks, a national group that has played a crucial role in organizing Tea Party activists and backing insurgent candidates, has been riven by turmoil, leading to the departure last month of its chairman, Dick Armey, a former Republican majority leader in the House.
Mr. Armey said in news accounts that he questioned the ethical behavior of senior officials in the group, though others told of a power struggle. He was eased out with an $8 million consulting contract, a copy of which was obtained by The Associated Press.
FreedomWorks spent nearly $40 million on the 2012 elections but backed a string of losing Senate candidates, including Richard E. Mourdock of Indiana, Josh Mandel of Ohio and Connie Mack of Florida. Some Tea Party firebrands lost their House seats, including Allen B. West of Florida and Joe Walsh of Illinois.
One notable success for the Tea Party was the Senate victory by Ted Cruz of Texas.
Mr. Cummings, who is the Midwest coordinator for Tea Party Patriots, a national group, said a major issue he would be focusing on now was Agenda 21, a United Nations resolution that encourages sustainable development. It has no force of law in the United States, but a passionate element of the Tea Party sees it as a plot against American property rights.
Billie Tucker, an activist with the First Coast Tea Party in Florida, said she and others suspected that corruption on local election boards had led to Mr. Obama's victory in the state. Activists want to investigate.
''Some people say it's just a conspiracy theory, but there's rumbling all around,'' she said. ''There's all kinds of data, and no one's talking about it, including, hello, the mainstream media.''
Another issue boiling is the ''nullification'' of the Affordable Care Act. Angry that Mr. Obama's re-election means that the health care law will not be repealed, some activists claim that states can deny the authority of the federal government and refuse to carry it out.
At a Florida State Senate meeting this month, two dozen Tea Party activists called the law ''tyrannical'' and said the state had the right to nullify it.
Mr. Gaetz, the Senate president, a conservative Republican, said in an interview that he, too, disagreed with the Supreme Court ruling that upheld the law. But he called nullification ''kooky.''
''We're not a banana republic,'' he said. It is ''dangerous to the foundation of the republic when we pick and choose which laws we will obey.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Everett Wilkinson, a Tea Party leader in Florida, said the number of active groups statewide had ''diminished significantly.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL McELROY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (93%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (68%); BAILOUTS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); MITT ROMNEY (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



878 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 619 words

HEADLINE: Is Growth Over?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Worth thinking about. 

 BODY:
It's taken me a while to get around to Bob Gordon's stimulating essay suggesting that the great days of economic growth are behind us. It's not that different from things he's been saying before, and I have in the past had a lot of sympathy for that view. I now believe, however, that his technological pessimism is wrong -- or if you prefer, it's the wrong kind of pessimism. But this is definitely a discussion worth having.
Gordon argues, rightly in my view, that we've really had three industrial revolutions so far, each based on a different cluster of technologies: 
The analysis in my paper links periods of slow and rapid growth to the timing of the three industrial revolutions:
 IR #1 (steam, railroads) from 1750 to 1830;
 IR #2 (electricity, internal combustion engine, running water, indoor toilets, communications, entertainment, chemicals, petroleum) from 1870 to 1900; and
 IR #3 (computers, the web, mobile phones) from 1960 to present.
Gordon then argues that IR#2 was by far the most dramatic, which again seems right. Think of the America shown in Lincoln, which is a society shaped by industrial revolution 1 but not yet transformed by IR #2. It was a society in which you could travel much further and faster than ever before -- but when you got to your destination, it was still a horse-drawn society in which most people still lived on farms and cities were cruder and dirtier than we can easily imagine. By the 1920s, however, urban America was already recognizably a modern society.
What Gordon then does is suggest that IR #3 has already mostly run its course, that all our mobile devices and all that are new and fun but not that fundamental. It's good to have someone questioning the tech euphoria; but I've been looking into technology issues a lot lately, and I'm pretty sure he's wrong, that the IT revolution has only begun to have its impact.
Consider for a moment a sort of fantasy technology scenario, in which we could produce intelligent robots able to do everything a person can do. Clearly, such a technology would remove all limits on per capita GDP, as long as you don't count robots among the capitas. All you need to do is keep raising the ratio of robots to humans, and you get whatever GDP you want.
Now, that's not happening -- and in fact, as I understand it, not that much progress has been made in producing machines that think the way we do. But it turns out that there are other ways of producing very smart machines. In particular, Big Data -- the use of huge databases of things like spoken conversations -- apparently makes it possible for machines to perform tasks that even a few years ago were really only possible for people. Speech recognition is still imperfect, but vastly better than it was and improving rapidly, not because we've managed to emulate human understanding but because we've found data-intensive ways of interpreting speech in a very non-human way.
And this means that in a sense we are moving toward something like my intelligent-robots world; many, many tasks are becoming machine-friendly. This in turn means that Gordon is probably wrong about diminishing returns to technology.
Ah, you ask, but what about the people? Very good question. Smart machines may make higher GDP possible, but also reduce the demand for people -- including smart people. So we could be looking at a society that grows ever richer, but in which all the gains in wealth accrue to whoever owns the robots.
And then eventually Skynet decides to kill us all, but that's another story.
Anyway, interesting stuff to speculate about -- and not irrelevant to policy, either, since so much of the debate over entitlements is about what is supposed to happen decades from now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (73%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (73%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (68%); BIG DATA (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



879 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 962 words

HEADLINE: This Year in Small Business: Not Impressed!

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: A sampling of some of the best small-business writings that we linked to this year. 

 BODY:
Another year of The Dashboard is behind us, and it's time to look back at our favorite comments, blogs, opinions and videos of 2012, the ones that had the biggest impact on small-business owners. Enjoy.
 Lesson From Sandy Mark Thoma, an economist, offers a lesson learned from the enormous natural disaster: "If inequality and the economic and political power that come with it continue to grow, the belief that capitalism is unfair could become widespread. This, in turn, could bring about the kinds of changes to the market system that free-market advocates fear so much."
 Post-Election Advice Politics aside, J. Jennings Moss creates a list of opportunities for small businesses as a result of the November elections, including Big Data: "This sector would have boomed regardless of who won the White House. But it might get an extra boost with the return of Obama, who created the job for a chief technology officer on his first day in office in 2009." 
 Start-Up Angle The best take on the 2012 start-up scene is Adam Fletcher's nine signs you've become a start-up hipster, including: "You use the word social at least 15 times a day. A true 'stipster' understands that for any business to succeed it must be 'social.' Exactly what social means, stipsters aren't sure, but it probably involves a crude Frankensteining of Twitter, Quora, Facebook and cats that look like Hitler."
 Best Videos The best videos of the year include Pat Stansik's description of what it's like to turn 24 years old, the executive chef of McDonald's showing us how to make a Big Mac, and a touching display of kids supporting a classmate with cerebral palsy.
 Way to Manage This employee-management advice comes from Mark Lengnick-Hall, a professor with the University of Texas at San Antonio College of Business, who says that we should manage our teams to be like the San Antonio Spurs: "Create a sense of shared purpose and interdependence. The Spurs constantly stress passing the ball and making plays as a team. They are all committed to one goal: coming together as a team. Businesses, too, need to create an overarching goal that brings employees together in a common pursuit."
 Advice for Naming a Product Tom Grasty, an entrepreneur, offers three tips, including: "Make sure the domain name is available. Because you never know which domain extension is going to be the next one to take off, my advice is to purchase as many domain extensions as possible. I know .cc (the domain for the Cocos Islands) may seem completely unnecessary today, but the last thing you want to do is be held hostage by some domain squatter who had the foresight to buy your domain before you did."
 Social Media Lessons David F. Carr offers seven lessons he learned fromsocial business leaders, including one take-away from Ford Motor: "Let business drive technology, not the other way around." And Gaz Copeland's helpful suggestions on how to look stupid in 140 characters should not be missed.
 Look Into the Future Are you familiar with self-healing concrete, counterintuitive metamaterials or deflexion? If you're preparing your business for the future, you should be. And these are just a few of the cool technologies on the way, according to this report from Ilya Leybovich.
 Thoughts on Retail No matter what kind of business you run, you should read Shashi Bellamkonda's "thoughts while having a pedicure," including: "Reach out to potential customers through your existing customers. Maybe a sign that says, 'Your partner or spouse will love us too. Bring them in!'"
 Tweet of the Year I have no interest in making the most money in the world. I have an interest in having the most people at my funeral. -- @garyvee
 Going Mobile Chris Gaylord's reports on how cookie sales are soaring for the Girl Scouts is a great example of the impact that mobile technology can have on any small business, even a nonprofit organization.
 Getting Ready for Crowdfunding An accountant, Jim Brendel, explains the promise of crowdfunding: "It's a hot topic for businesses because they are always looking to raise capital. Now several funding portal Web sites have risen to fill the crowdfunding void. Anyone, even if not incorporated, will be able to use crowdfunding. It is only limited by the attractiveness of your idea and your ability to present it."
 Reality Check Erica Douglass offers insights on the harsh realities of being an entrepreneur: "To really succeed, you have to have the guts to not listen to basically anything that's popular in our society. If you have weak goals, you won't be motivated to work on them. And if you're scared of criticism, you won't make it."
 Boss of the Year My favorite small-business story of the year is Caine's Arcade, which is about a 9-year-old who spent his summer building an elaborate cardboard arcade inside his dad's used auto-parts store - and a community that came together to make his day. The video "has inspired millions and launched a movement to foster creativity and entrepreneurship in kids."
 Living Well Leo Babauta explains how: "Want little, and you are not poor. You can have a lot of money and possessions, but if you always want more, you are poorer than the guy who has little and wants nothing."
 In Conclusion This author, however, thinks President Obama and McKayla Maroney best summed up the year for me and my small business. Here's to a more impressive 2013!
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Reinventing the Toilet
        
This Week in Small Business: Meet Your Start-Up Mate
        
This Week in Small Business: Another Jobs Bill!
        
This Week in Small Business: Cliffhanger!
        
This Week in Small Business: Happy Holidays?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); POLITICS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (76%); OBAMA'S FIRST 100 DAYS (73%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); CROWDSOURCING (73%); CATS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); BASKETBALL (66%); DOMAIN NAMES (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (61%); NATURAL DISASTERS (57%); CEREBRAL PALSY (50%) economy; Small Business; Crowdfunding (Internet); Entrepreneurship; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (54%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (85%) TEXAS, USA (85%) UNITED STATES (85%); COCOS (KEELING) ISLANDS (57%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



880 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 367 words

HEADLINE: Worried About Taxes, Some Consumers Cut Back

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: About a third of Americans say they are cutting back on personal spending because of the uncertain tax situation for 2013. 

 BODY:
As time ticks away for a resolution to the so-called fiscal cliff mess, some consumers aren't taking any chances.
About one in three Americans has cut back on personal spending over the last month or so because of worries about the impact on the economy -- and their pocketbooks -- if an agreement isn't reached, a survey from Bankrate.com finds. 
But despite all the drama, drastic belt-tightening seems premature to me. Some economists argue that the impact of the "fiscal cliff" -- shorthand for a combination of automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect unless the government acts -- will probably be felt gradually, rather than all at once. And the impact of cuts on the military and other programs can be mitigated, if Congress gets its act together relatively early in 2013. Meanwhile, the economy appears to be gaining steam. The unemployment rate has fallen to 7.7 percent, and the housing market continues to recover.
It's true, though, that some effects, including a two percentage point increase in the payroll tax and the end of unemployment benefits for more than two million people -- would be felt right away. And those two hits may weigh most heavily on consumers who are most likely to say they're cutting back. Consumers most inclined to have cut their spending over the last 30 days, the survey found, include those with annual income under $30,000 and those with no more than a high school diploma.
"The risks of going over the fiscal cliff are beginning to resonate with consumers much the way they have with businesses that have held back in recent months," Greg McBride, Bankrate's senior financial analyst, said in a statement.
The telephone survey of 1,001 adults was conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International from Dec. 6 to 9. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.
Are you cutting back on spending because of worries about the tax situation? What steps have you taken?

        
Americans Split Over Whether Recovery Will Endure
        
Many Americans Struggle to Save for Emergencies
        
Many Consumers Plan to Spend Less This Holiday Season
        
Cash and Debit Prevail This Holiday Season
        
Housing Market Improvements Lessen Consumer Distress

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (89%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAX LAW (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); CORPORATE TAX (66%) Budgeting; Consumer Behavior; Taxation; Unemployment; United States Economy; Bankrate Inc

ORGANIZATION: Bankrate Inc

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



881 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 26, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: A Budget for Regulation

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: It's hard to assess the cost of government regulations unless the public is provided a clear accounting of what is spent and what the return is on that investment, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
As Democrats and Republicans haggle over federal taxes and spending, another important policy tool gets less attention: regulation.
Government has a variety of ways it can achieve its objectives, including subsidies, taxes and regulation. For example, the government might attempt to help disabled people by subsidizing handicapped-accessible buildings. Or it could levy an extra tax on buildings that are not handicapped-accessible. Or it could simply refuse to permit structures to be built, or used in various situations, without being handicapped-accessible.
All three strategies are likely to affect building activity, increase the prevalence of handicapped-accessible buildings and in so doing help people with disabilities, as intended. The first strategy is ordinarily called government spending; the second, taxation; and the third, regulation.
Private-sector activities to comply with regulation do not appear in the government budget, whereas private-sector interactions with tax and spending programs do, in terms of the amount of money they pay or receive. (Regulation does need a government budget for enforcement, but so do taxes and spending, and enforcement is distinct from the private sector's compliance activities.)

Politicians have devised various budgetary gimmicks to help disguise what they tax and spend, and the sunset provision that led to next month's fiscal cliff is one of them. Nevertheless, experts and even the voting public get an idea of the importance of taxes and spending in the economy by looking at budget totals and perhaps a few of the largest line items.
The same cannot be said for regulation, which lacks any official budget. Attempts have been made to quantify regulation by the number of pages of law or pages of agency rules: President Ronald Reagan once bragged that his administration reduced one area of regulation to 31 pages from 905.
However, pages can be misleading, because some words, sentences and paragraphs have more impact than others. For example, some laws, like those requiring children to attend school, have little impact because a vast majority of American families would send their children to school even if the law did not require it. Other laws, like many curfews, take up space on the books but are not enforced.
Because regulations have so far been poorly quantified, it is interesting to see a recent study of workplace regulation by complianceandsafety.com. It attempts to measure the aggregate of importance of workplace regulation by the dollar amount of fines collected by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration. Its chart, reproduced below, looks at the fines in reverse chronological order, and colors years according to the political party of the president in power.
OSHA fines have increased sharply since 2009. Perhaps more surprising is that the largest fine increases previously were under a Republican president (the first President George Bush) and the largest reductions were under President Bill Clinton.
As with taxes and spending, we cannot necessarily conclude that more regulation is "bad" or "good," but it would be helpful for experts and voters alike to see a rigorous accounting for government regulation.

        
Is the Fiscal Cliff a Big Deal?
        
A Tale of Two Welfare States
        
The True Burden of Government
        
The Real Fiscal Risks in the United States
        
Gasoline Lines Are Unnecessary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: DISABLED ACCESS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); DISABLED PERSONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY AGENCIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CHILDREN (85%); WRITERS (78%); FAMILY (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (72%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (72%); POLITICS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (67%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (63%) budget; Casey B. Mulligan; Daily Economist; disability; government spending; handicapped accessible; OSHA; regulation; Taxation; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (73%) ILLINOIS, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2012



882 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: Richard Baum, 72, Creator of China Forum

BYLINE: By WILLIAM YARDLEY

 BODY:
Richard Baum, who presided over Chinapol, an online discussion group about China that has become an essential forum for many experts, diplomats and journalists, died Dec. 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 72.
The cause was cancer, said his son, Matthew.
Dr. Baum, a professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, was an accomplished China scholar who wrote influential works on Mao Zedong and the period leading to the Cultural Revolution in the 1960s, as well as on the market-based policies promoted by Mao's successor, Deng Xiaoping. He advised top United States leaders, including the elder President George Bush, and he was often quoted by the news media as it tried to assess pronouncements from Chinese Communist leaders. 
But he had a particular affection for Chinapol.
In the 1990s, Dr. Baum spent parts of several years in Japan. He had a steady e-mail dialogue with several dozen other China experts, but keeping it going while he was overseas became increasingly expensive because of Internet charges, which were steep at the time. To save money, he started Chinapol, a Listserv group whose first members were mostly academics. The group steadily expanded to include ambassadors, business leaders and journalists -- all seeking insight and perspective as China rose as an economic and political power.
Participants had to be approved by Dr. Baum -- a recommendation from another member helped, as did an affiliation with a prominent news organization -- and advocacy, attacks and self-promotion were not allowed. Violators could be quickly culled, an intolerance that some joked evoked that of China's leaders.
''Rick was lovingly known as 'Chairman Rick,' '' said Clayton Dube, a longtime friend and colleague who leads the U.S.-China Institute at the University of Southern California.
The forum has been especially useful for journalists working in China. Although posts on Chinapol are confidential within the group, a reporter can contact a member separately to follow up on a post or to request permission to quote from it.
''Off-list replies welcome,'' a post might read.
Members can submit questions to the group, whether they are looking for articles on China's relationship with Iran or context for news at it develops.
Chinapol currently has about 1,300 members. Dr. Baum recently gave responsibility for moderating the forum to Mr. Dube and Richard Gunde, another longtime colleague at U.C.L.A.
''Online groups tend to burn out, burn up, become dominated by certain loud voices and in other ways eventually degrade,'' James Fallows, a national correspondent for The Atlantic who has written extensively about China, said in response to an e-mail about Dr. Baum and Chinapol. ''Through his careful selection of members and infrequent but firm policing of what he considered inappropriate discussion, Rick Baum allowed people from a wide variety of interests to share news, impressions and questions about China, in a way that left nearly all of them better informed.''
Richard David Baum was born on July 8, 1940, in Los Angeles. Besides his son, he is survived by his wife, Karin Joffe; his daughter, Kristen Baum Wilcox; three grandchildren; and a brother, Steven. His children are from his marriage to Carolyn Paller, which ended in divorce. A sister, Wendy Moloshco, died in 2011.
Dr. Baum made his name early as a China scholar. As a graduate student at the University of California, Berkeley, in the 1960s, he gained rare access to classified documents that shed light on the inner workings of the Communist leaders there, and he went on to write extensively about them, including a 1975 book, ''Prelude to Revolution: Mao, the Party and the Peasant Question.''
Dr. Baum was director of the Center for Chinese Studies at U.C.L.A. He taught at the university for 44 years. Late in his career, he wrote and delivered ''The Fall and Rise of China,'' a 48-part video lecture that was published in 2010 as part of the Great Courses series. He published a memoir, ''China Watcher: Confessions of a Peking Tom,'' the same year.
In 2008, Dr. Baum was among more than 160 prominent scholars and writers who asked President Hu Jintao to release Liu Xiaobo, a well-known intellectual and dissident detained that year. Dr. Baum circulated a petition on Chinapol.
''While I have always tried to maintain Chinapol's political neutrality,'' Dr. Baum told The New York Times in an e-mail at the time, ''some violations are so egregious that I cannot, as a sentient being, remain neutral.''
Mr. Liu, who won the Nobel Peace Prize in 2010, remains in prison, serving an 11-year sentence for subversion.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Richard Baum (PHOTOGRAPH BY REED HUTCHINSON/U.C.L.A.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); WRITERS (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); POLITICS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); APPROVALS (65%); CANCER (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



883 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 932 words

HEADLINE: Tension Builds As Senate Faces Fiscal Deadline

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- With just five days left to make a deal, President Obama and members of the Senate were set to return to Washington on Thursday with no clear path out of their fiscal morass even as the Treasury Department warned that the government will soon be unable to pay its bills unless Congress acts.
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, adding to the building tension over how to handle a year-end pileup of threatened tax increases and spending cuts, formally notified Congress on Wednesday that the government would hit its statutory borrowing limit on Monday, raising anew the threat of a federal default as the two parties remained in a standoff. 
Mr. Geithner wrote that he would take ''extraordinary measures'' to keep the government afloat but said that with so much uncertainty over the shape of the tax code and future government spending he did not know how long the Treasury could shuffle accounts before the government could no longer pay its creditors.
For months, President Obama, members of Congress of both parties and top economists have warned that the nation's fragile economy could be swept back into recession if the two parties did not come to a post-election compromise on January's combination of tax increases and across-the-board spending cuts.
Yet with days left before the fiscal punch lands, both sides are exhibiting little sense of urgency, and new public statements Wednesday appeared to be designed more to ensure the other side is blamed rather than to foster progress toward a deal.
After a high-level telephone conference call, House Republican leaders called on the Senate to act but opened the door to bringing to the House floor any last-minute legislation the Senate could produce.
''The House will take this action on whatever the Senate can pass, but the Senate first must act,'' said the statement issued on behalf of Speaker John A. Boehner and his three top lieutenants.
But Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, instead called on House Republicans to pass an existing Senate measure that would prevent tax increases on household income up to $250,000. ''The Senate has already rejected House Republicans' Tea Party bills, and no further legislation can move through the Senate until Republicans drop their knee-jerk obstruction,'' he said in a statement.
Senators will return to the Capitol on Thursday evening with nothing yet to consider. The series of votes waiting for them are unrelated to the fiscal deadline. The House will be gaveled into session at 2 p.m., but since Mr. Boehner has not called the members back to Washington, it will most likely be gaveled back into recess shortly thereafter.
The shift to the Senate has focused new attention on Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader and a deal-making veteran. Democrats say they need assurances from Mr. McConnell that he will not use procedural tactics to delay any potential bill for an interim solution to avert the fiscal crisis.
But Don Stewart, a spokesman for Mr. McConnell, said no one from the White House or from Mr. Reid's office has reached out to begin negotiations. Democrats say that Mr. McConnell knows full well what they are proposing: the same Senate bill that passed in July extending all the expiring Bush-era income tax cuts on incomes below $250,000, setting the tax rate on dividends and capital gains at 20 percent, and stopping the alternative minimum tax from rising to hit more middle class taxpayers. Onto that, Democrats would like to add an extension of expiring unemployment benefits and a delay in across-the-board spending cuts while negotiations on a broader deficit reduction plan slips into next year.
Democrats now suggest that Republicans are content to wait until after the January deadline. On Jan. 3, Mr. Boehner is likely to be re-elected speaker for the 113th Congress. After that roll call, he may feel less pressure from his right flank against a deal.
For its part, the Senate may simply be out of time. Without unanimous agreement, Mr. Reid would have to take procedural steps to begin considering a bill. He could then be forced to press for another vote to cut off debate before final passage. If forced to jump through those hoops, the 112th Congress could expire before final votes could be cast.
''I think there's some chance that we get a deal done in the early weeks of January, which technically means you're going over the cliff,'' Representative Jim Himes, Democrat of Connecticut, said on CNBC on Wednesday.
Lawmakers from both parties say Mr. McConnell could be the key to a resolution. He has played the role of adjudicator for Congressional Republicans before, during last year's fight over a payroll tax extension and the battle between Democrats and Republicans over how, or if, to pay for an emergency disaster financing bill.
With days to spare, Mr. McConnell must decide whether to allow on the Senate floor the Democrats' bill to extend expiring tax cuts. If passed without a filibuster, that legislation could force the House speaker's hand and quiet his raucous Republican conference. Or Mr. McConnell, who is up for re-election in 2014 and would like to avoid a primary fight, could stand back quietly and hope that Mr. Boehner and Mr. Obama somehow manage to put together a deal that saves him the trouble.
If Mr. McConnell cannot come to the rescue, there is another hope: Starbucks. Howard Schultz, the company's chief executive officer, asked baristas who work in Washington-area Starbucks to scrawl ''Come Together'' on coffee cups for the rest of the week to generate enthusiasm for a compromise.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: House Republican leaders called on the Senate to act on fiscal legislation, which focused new attention on Senator Mitch McConnell, above right. Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, at right, notified Congress that the government would hit its statutory borrowing limit on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES
 JONATHAN ERNST/REUTERS) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (76%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (73%); CONFERENCE CALLS (64%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (88%); HARRY REID (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



884 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 436 words

HEADLINE: October Home Prices Rose In Positive Sign for Markets

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (AP) -- Home prices were up in most major metropolitan areas in October from a year earlier, pushed up by rising sales and a decline in the supply of available homes. Higher prices show the housing market is improving as it moves into the slow fall and winter sales period. 
The Standard & Poor's/Case-Shiller national home price index released Wednesday showed that prices increased 4.3 percent from October 2011, the largest year-over-year increase in two and a half years, when a home buyer tax credit temporarily increased sales.
Prices rose in October 2012 from a year earlier in 18 of 20 cities. Phoenix led all cities with a 21.7 percent gain, followed by Detroit, where prices increased 10 percent. Prices declined in Chicago and New York.
Home prices fell in 12 of 20 cities in October compared with September. Monthly prices are not seasonally adjusted, so the decreases reflect the end of the peak buying season.
Still, the broader trend is encouraging. October was the fifth straight month of year-over-year gains, after nearly two years of declines. Prices rose in mid-2010 in the final months before the tax credit expired. They had fallen sharply in 2008 and 2009.
''It is clear that the housing recovery is gaining strength,'' said David M. Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indexes.
The improvement in housing is adding to economic growth and most analysts expect that to continue in 2013, assuming that the White House and Congress can reach a deal to avert economic damage from sharp tax increases and government spending cuts set to take effect on Jan. 1.
''We expect home price appreciation to continue for the foreseeable future, because inventories are lean amid rising sales,'' said Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank. ''This assumes that a resolution to the fiscal cliff is found,'' he said. ''Otherwise, the recent positive trend in housing would most certainly be in jeopardy along with the rest of the current economic expansion.''
Prices nationwide have recovered to about the same level as in the fall of 2003, according to the Case-Shiller index. They remain about 30 percent below the peak reached in the summer of 2006.
The pace of home construction slipped in November but was still nearly 22 percent higher than a year earlier. Builders are on track this year to start work on the largest number of homes in four years.
Builder confidence rose in December for a seventh straight month to the highest level in more than 6 1/2 years, according to a survey released last week by the National Association of Home Builders/Wells Fargo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (96%); HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); TRENDS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TAX INCREASES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (60%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (60%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (60%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



885 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Dancing Around the Fiscal Cliff

BYLINE: By DALIBOR ROHAC

 BODY:
LONDON -- Much has been made of the offers, counteroffers and feverish politicking swirling around the efforts by President Obama and speaker of the House, John Boehner, to reach a budget deal that would save the United States from tumbling over a ''fiscal cliff.''
Let's be honest: The importance of whether some compromise is adopted and what specific form it takes pales in comparison with the reality of the genuine fiscal abyss into which the people of the United States are staring. All of the politically realistic solutions, including those that feature cuts to Medicare, Social Security or increases in the income tax, are just Band-Aid measures compared with the problem of public debt, which is driven by a combination of enormous entitlement spending and a long-term slowdown both in the growth of economic output and population. 
As a result, the United States, along with the rest of the industrialized West, has been on an unsustainable fiscal path for decades. Stephen Cecchetti, Madhusudan Mohanty and Fabrizio Zampolli, research economists at the Bank for International Settlements, predict that unless radical reforms are adopted, the public debt of the United States, France and Greece will reach over 400 percent of G.D.P. by 2040, with Germany rising above 300 percent by the same year. Similarly, unless policies change, in Japan the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio could be in the 600 percent range.
Such debt levels are wildly implausible, as creditors would likely stop lending to Western governments long before such levels are reached. Some politicians and economists may want to put a fig leaf on it, but the projections by Cecchetti and others mean that the West is effectively bankrupt.
The fiscal problem is not accidental: It is shared simultaneously by most Western countries. Therefore, it does not make much sense to look for its parochial ''causes'' of in each country: President George W. Bush's tax cuts did not get us here -- and neither did President Obama's stimulus, Greek tax avoidance, or wasteful spending under left-leaning governments in Western Europe. Instead, the depth of the current problem is a result of a deep ideological transformation of the West that dates back 60 years.
The Great Depression gave rise to Keynesian macroeconomics, which encouraged governments to borrow and spend during recessions in order to smooth the business cycle. However, over the years, deficit financing has become an operating principle of Western governments, in recessions as well as in good economic times -- simply because it is a convenient way of financing electoral promises without having to raise additional tax revenue.
If our fiscal problem is a result of a deep ideological change, then it becomes clear that there are no quick technocratic fixes. Few people think that a deal between President Obama and Boehner would be the basis for a lasting solution. Likewise, the largely botched ''austerity'' measures adopted by some European governments have done nothing to stabilize public finances over a horizon exceeding just a couple of years.
And suppose, for a moment, that because of the pressure from credit markets, a real long-term fiscal solution were agreed upon by the two parties in the United States, or by politicians in European countries. How credible and how lasting would it be?
As Mario Rizzo, a professor of economics at New York University, recently noted, ''Contemporary federal government -- executive and legislature -- exists for the purpose of giving favors to various groups in exchange for electoral support. Thus, even assuming the unlikely event that the long-term imbalance is resolved, how do we stay within the solution range? After all, we did not get where we are by accident.''
If the sources of West's fiscal problems are running deep, then the solutions will have to be deep as well. Instead of tinkering with various parameters of our welfare states -- such as tax rates or the retirement age -- Western democracies need to have a serious discussion about what goods and services the governments can and should be providing and how they can be restrained from overreaching.
Unlike the kabuki dances around the ''fiscal cliff,'' the discussion we need cannot be about technicalities: It will have to be about the social contract and the political philosophy underpinning our political institutions. It should worry us that, at the moment, no one is willing to have that debate.
Dalibor Rohac is an economist at the Legatum Institute in London.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (75%); LIBERALISM (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (74%); TAX LAW (74%); TAX RELIEF (74%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); MEDICARE (55%)

COMPANY: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BANK FOR INTERNATIONAL SETTLEMENTS (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); JOHN BOEHNER (77%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); FRANCE (76%); GREECE (70%); GERMANY (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



886 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GREEN COLUMN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: High Energy Costs Plaguing Europe

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

 BODY:
LONDON -- On Dec. 19, Voestalpine, an Austrian maker of high-quality steel for the auto industry, announced that it would build a plant in North America that would employ natural gas to reduce iron ore to a kind of raw iron that would then be used in the company's European blast furnaces.
Asked whether he had considered building the plant in Europe, Voestalpine's chief executive, Wolfgang Eder, said that that ''calculation does not make sense from the very beginning.'' Gas in Europe is much more expensive, he said. 
High energy costs are emerging as an issue in Europe that is prompting debate, including questioning of the Continent's clean energy initiatives. Over the past few years, Europe has spent tens of billions of euros in an effort to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. The bulk of the spending has gone into low-carbon energy sources like wind and solar power that have needed special tariffs or other subsidies to be commercially viable.
''We embarked on a big transition to a low-carbon economy without taking into account the cost and without factoring in the competitive impact,'' says Fabien Roques, head of European power and carbon at the energy consulting firm IHS CERA in Paris. ''I think there will be a critical review of some of these policies in the next few years.''
Both consumers and the industry are upset about high energy costs. Energy-intensive industries like chemicals and steel are, if not closing European plants outright, looking toward places like the United States that have lower energy costs as they pursue new investments.
BASF, the German chemical giant, has been outspoken about the consequences of energy costs for competitiveness and is building a new plant in Louisiana.
''We Europeans are currently paying up to four or five times more for natural gas than the Americans,'' Harald Schwager, a member of the executive board at BASF, said last month. ''Energy efficiency alone will not allow us to compensate for this. Of course, that means increased competition for all the European manufacturing sites.''
The expansion in renewables will probably ensure that Europe will meet its target of reducing greenhouse gases 20 percent from their 1990 levels by 2020. But it has been a disappointment on other levels.
For one thing, emissions continue to rise globally. In a sense, Europe is likely to have exported its emissions to places like China, where polluting economic activity continues to increase while the European economy stagnates.
A striking indicator that the European effort has not achieved all that it intended to is the continued rise in the burning of coal, by far the biggest polluter among fossil fuels.
The International Energy Agency, a Paris-based group formed by consumer nations, recently said that coal was likely to catch up with oil as the world's largest source of energy in a decade.
Much of the increase in coal use can be blamed on China and India, but not all of it. Europe has increased its coal use this year, and that has led to an increase of about 7 percent in carbon dioxide emissions from power generation, according to IHS. Coal use is increasing in all regions except the United States, the I.E.A. said.
Current European energy policies were mostly shaped when the European economy was booming. In the grim economic climate of today, spending big money on renewables can seem like a luxury. Spain -- once a strong supporter of renewables -- has sharply cut funding.
The British government, another big backer of clean energy, recently struck a compromise. It promised to soak consumers for billions of pounds of subsidies for renewables like wind power and even new nuclear power plants, but it also gave a cautious green light to shale gas drilling in hopes of finding a cheaper source of natural gas.
A British consumer advocacy group called Which? recently pegged the costs to British consumers of decarbonization and new energy infrastructure at more than £100 billion, or $161 billion, and said that ''persistently rising energy prices'' were putting ''intense financial pressures'' on the public. In Germany, renewables subsidies are already adding 10 percent to 15 percent to bills, according to IHS.
Europeans cannot help noticing that the United States has managed, through the shale gas boom, not only to slash natural gas prices but also to cut carbon dioxide emissions to a 20-year low as utilities have shifted from coal to natural gas, which produces much less carbon dioxide.
What can Europe do? If it wants to make a bigger dent in carbon emissions, it needs a serious carbon price -- not the current &#x20ac;7, or $9, per metric ton -- that has little effect on business decisions. It might also consider a tax on carbon consumption to make sure it is not achieving its goals through deindustrialization. But such measures might make Europe even less competitive unless they are adopted globally.
Dieter Helm, a professor of energy policy at the University of Oxford, thinks that Europe could get a much bigger bang for its euro by putting some of the funding going into uncompetitive existing technologies into basic energy research that might produce much better clean technologies in the future.
Mr. Helm argues that big gains in the reduction of emissions could be achieved in the short term by replacing coal with natural gas -- as the United States is doing. Europe may have enormous quantities of shale gas. There has not been enough exploration yet to know. Yet, several countries, including France, seem bent on killing the industry in its infancy. As with so many things in Europe, less ideology and more pragmatism are needed.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); CHEMICALS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); SOLAR ENERGY (89%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); CHEMICALS MFG (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); WIND ENERGY (75%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%)

COMPANY: VOESTALPINE AG (84%)

TICKER: VOE (WBAG) (84%); VOE (FRA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SOUTHERN EUROPE (88%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



887 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: On Longest Bullet Train Line, Chinese Ride 1,200 Miles in 8 Hours

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER; Mia Li in Beijing contributed research.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- China began service Wednesday morning on the world's longest high-speed rail line, covering a distance in eight hours that is about equal to that from New York to Key West, Fla., or from London across Europe to Belgrade, Serbia.
Trains traveling 300 kilometers, or 186 miles, an hour, began regular service between Beijing and Guangzhou, the main metropolis in southeastern China. Older trains still in service on a parallel rail line take 21 hours; Amtrak trains from New York to Miami, a shorter distance, still take nearly 30 hours. 
Completion of the Beijing-Guangzhou route -- roughly 1,200 miles -- is the latest sign that China has resumed rapid construction on one of the world's largest and most ambitious infrastructure projects, a network of four north-south routes and four east-west routes that span the country.
Lavish spending on the project has helped jump-start the Chinese economy twice: in 2009, during the global financial crisis, and again this autumn, after a brief but sharp economic slowdown over the summer.
The hiring of as many as 100,000 workers for each line has kept a lid on unemployment as private-sector construction has slowed because of limits on real estate speculation. The national network has helped to reduce air pollution in Chinese cities and helped to curb demand for imported diesel fuel by freeing capacity on older rail lines for goods to be carried by freight trains instead of heavily polluting, costlier trucks.
But the high-speed rail system has also been controversial in China. Debt to finance the construction has reached nearly 4 trillion renminbi, or $640 billion, making it one of the most visible reasons total debt has been surging as a share of economic output in China, and is approaching levels in the West.
Each passenger car taken off the older, slower rail lines makes room for three freight cars because passenger trains have to move so quickly that they force freight trains to stop frequently. But although the high-speed trains have played a big role in allowing sharp increases in freight shipments, the Ministry of Railways has not yet figured out a way to charge large freight shippers, many of them politically influential state-owned enterprises, for part of the cost of the high-speed lines, which haul only passengers.
The high-speed trains are also considerably more expensive than the heavily subsidized older passenger trains. A second-class seat on the new bullet trains from Beijing to Guangzhou costs 865 renminbi ($139) one way, compared with 426 renminbi ($68) for the cheapest bunk on one of the older trains, which also have narrow, uncomfortable seats for as little as 251 renminbi ($40).
Worries about the high-speed network peaked in July 2011, when one high-speed train plowed into the back of another near Wenzhou in southeastern China, killing 40 people.
A subsequent investigation blamed flawed signaling equipment for the crash. China had been operating high-speed trains at 350 kilometers an hour (about 218 m.ph.), and it cut the top speed to the current rate in response to that crash.
The crash crystallized worries about the haste with which China has built its high-speed rail system. The first line, from Beijing to Tianjin, opened a week before the 2008 Olympics; a little more than four years later, the country now has 9,349 kilometers, or 5,809 miles, of high-speed lines.
China's aviation system has a good international reputation for safety, and its occasional deadly crashes have not attracted nearly as much attention. Transportation safety experts attribute the public's fascination with the Wenzhou crash partly to the novelty of the system and partly to a distrust among many Chinese of what is perceived as a homegrown technology, in contrast with the Boeing and Airbus jets flown by Chinese airlines.
Japanese rail executives have complained, however, that the Chinese technology is mostly copied from them, an accusation that Chinese rail executives have strenuously denied.
The main alternative to trains for most Chinese lies in the country's roads, which have a grim reputation by international standards. Periodic crashes of intercity buses kill dozens of people at a time, while crashes of private cars are frequent in a country where four-fifths of new cars are sold to first-time buyers, often with scant driving experience.
Flights between Beijing and Guangzhou take about three hours and 15 minutes. But air travelers in China need to arrive at least an hour before a flight, compared with 20 minutes for high-speed trains, and the airports tend to be farther from the centers of cities than the high-speed train stations.
Land acquisition is the toughest part of building high-speed rail lines in the West, because the tracks need to be almost perfectly straight, and it has been an issue in China as well. Although local and provincial governments have forced owners to sell land for the tracks themselves, there have been disputes over suddenly valuable land near rail stations, with the result that surprisingly few stores and other commercial venues have sprung up around some high-speed stations used by tens of thousands of travelers every day.
Zhao Xiangfeng, a farmer in Henan Province, said a plan to build a mini-mall on his and six other farmers' land near a station had been shelved indefinitely after he and three of the other farmers refused to lease the land for any price close to what the village leadership offered. He said he worried that local leaders might try stronger tactics on the farmers to force them to lease the land and revive the project.
The 664-mile southern segment of the new high-speed rail line, from Guangzhou as far as Wuhan, has been open for nearly three years. The trains, which come every four to 12 minutes, are often packed, which could limit the number of seats available for travel to Beijing.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: China's high-speed trains at a maintenance area in Wuhan. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (92%); INFRASTRUCTURE (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TRAINS (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (89%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (78%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); REAL ESTATE (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); DIESEL FUEL (65%); AIR QUALITY (65%); AIR POLLUTION (65%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (50%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (57%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (90%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (88%); MIAMI, FL, USA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (90%); CENTRAL CHINA (79%); HUBEI, CHINA (58%) CHINA (98%); SERBIA (92%); HONG KONG (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (91%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



888 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 622 words

HEADLINE: Shares Fall Further as Holiday Shoppers Stay Home

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell for a third straight day on Wednesday, dragged down by retail stocks after a report showed a decline from last year's holiday shopping.
Trading was light, with volume well below this year's daily average. The day's volume was the lightest full day of trading in 2012. Many senior traders were still on vacation during this holiday-shortened week, and major European markets were closed for the day.
Many investors said concerns about the United States budget discussions and the possibility of tax increases kept shoppers away from stores, suggesting markets may struggle to gain any ground until that issue is resolved. The CBOE Volatility Index, a barometer of investor anxiety, rose 4.46 percent, closing above 19 for the first time since Nov. 7. 
A number of 2012's strongest performers advanced, a sign that portfolio managers may be buying securities with big gains to improve the appearance of their holdings before presenting the results to clients. Bank of America, which has more than doubled in 2012, added 2.6 percent, rising to $11.54 on Wednesday.
Holiday-related sales rose 0.7 percent from Oct. 28 through Dec. 24, in contrast to a 2 percent increase last year, according to data from MasterCard Advisors SpendingPulse. The Morgan Stanley retail index fell 1.8 percent, while the SPDR S&P Retail Trust slipped 1.7 percent.
''With the 'fiscal cliff' hanging over our heads, it was hard to convince people to shop, and now it's hard to convince investors that there's any reason to buy going into year-end,'' said Rick Fier, director of trading at Conifer Securities in New York.
President Obama is due back in Washington early Thursday for a final effort to negotiate a deal with Congress to bridge a series of tax increases and government spending cuts set to begin next week, the so-called fiscal cliff many economists worry could push the nation's economy into recession if it takes effect.
Coach fell 5.9 percent to $54.13 as the biggest decliner in Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, followed by Amazon.com, down 3.9 percent at $248.63, and Abercrombie & Fitch, off 3.5 percent at $45.44. Ralph Lauren, Limited Brands and Gap also ranked among the S.& P. 500's biggest decliners.
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 24.49 points, or 0.19 percent, to 13,114.59. The S.& P. 500 lost 6.83 points, or 0.48 percent, to 1,419.83. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 22.44 points, or 0.74 percent, to 2,990.16.
J. C. Penney was a notable exception to the weakness in retail stocks, surging 4.4 percent to $20.75 as the S.& P. 500's biggest gainer. It was followed closely by Bank of America and Genworth Financial, which each gained nearly 3 percent for the day.
''People want to show they own names like these, making them prime window-dressing candidates,'' said Wayne Kaufman, chief market analyst at John Thomas Financial in New York.
''Bank of America keeps going up even though it's overbought and you'd expect a pullback at these levels,'' he said. ''No one wanted it when it was under $10 a share, but they want it now.''
The S.& P. 500 has fallen 1.5 percent over the last three sessions, the worst three-day decline since mid-November. The Dow Jones transportation average, viewed as a proxy for business activity, fell 0.6 percent.
''While it's unlikely there could be a budget deal at any time, no one wants to get in front of that trade,'' said Mr. Fier of Conifer. ''Investors can easily make up for any gains when there's more action in 2013.''
Data showed that single-family home prices rose in October, reinforcing the view that the domestic real estate market was improving, as the S.& P./Case-Shiller composite index of 20 metropolitan areas gained 0.7 percent in October on a seasonally adjusted basis.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (79%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); BUDGETS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%)

COMPANY: ABERCROMBIE & FITCH CO (84%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); AMAZON.COM INC (52%)

TICKER: ANF (NYSE) (84%); AFT (FRA) (84%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS448140 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); SIC5651 FAMILY CLOTHING STORES (84%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (52%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (52%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%); RALPH LAUREN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



889 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: 'Crowdfunding' Rules Are Unlikely to Meet Deadline

BYLINE: By ROBB MANDELBAUM

 BODY:
When the Jobs Act became law in April, supporters proclaimed a new era for small businesses seeking to raise money.
The ''game changer,'' as President Obama put it in the Rose Garden as he signed the bill, was a provision to let small companies ''crowdfund'' -- that is, sell stock and other securities over the Internet directly to the public. ''For the first time,'' the president said, ''ordinary Americans will be able to go online and invest in entrepreneurs that they believe in.''
But it now seems that dawn will break late on this new age of democratic investing. The Securities and Exchange Commission appears certain to miss its end-of-year deadline for issuing regulations to put the provision into effect. And with the departure of the S.E.C. chairwoman, Mary L. Schapiro, and three of her top deputies -- including two who manage the offices writing the regulations -- some in the nascent equity crowdfunding industry worry that it could be 2014 before their line of business becomes legal. 
The delay has frustrated many crowdfunding backers. The 270 days that Congress gave the S.E.C. to write the rules ''is not a suggested timeline; it is a Congressional mandate,'' said Kim Wales, an organizer at Crowdfund Intermediary Regulatory Advocates, a lobbying group formed in April to represent the new industry, in an e-mailed statement. ''The S.E.C. answers to Congress, not the other way around.''
The crowdfunding provision, Title III of the Jumpstart Our Business Startups Act, creates an exception to the general rule that before a company can sell its stock to the public, it must register with the S.E.C., a process of disclosure requiring elaborate and expensive assistance from lawyers, accountants and investment bankers that most small companies cannot afford. Instead, businesses seeking less than $1 million will be able to raise capital online from small investors in a streamlined process.
But the law insists on strong investor protections, and as a result, the S.E.C. must iron out numerous issues concerning how crowdfunding companies, the intermediaries handling the transactions and even investors themselves can operate.
Small businesses, especially start-ups, are notoriously risky; in essence, the S.E.C. is writing rules that will govern a very dangerous game. ''It's actually a significant job to do the regulations in this area, so it was an unrealistic expectation that the S.E.C. would have it completed by now,'' said Barbara Roper, director of investor protection for the Consumer Federation of America, which is lobbying the agency on other aspects of the Jobs Act. ''I think they have 21 or 22 separate regulations to write.''
S.E.C. employees began accepting comments from and arranging meetings with interested members of the public about crowdfunding shortly after the Jobs Act became law. In those meetings, agency officials ''have come in with our white papers fully highlighted, line by line, to discuss it,'' said Alon Hillel-Tuch, co-founder and chief financial officer at RocketHub, a crowdfunding site that lets people and businesses raise money through donations or by offering rewards. (Current law allows sites to accept donations or deposits on a product.)
A spokeswoman for Senator Jeff Merkley, an Oregon Democrat who largely wrote the crowdfunding measure, said that the S.E.C. was grappling with the more stringent requirements courts had imposed for conducting cost-benefit analyses when writing regulations. This ''has slowed down everything from Dodd-Frank to the Jobs Act,'' the spokeswoman, Courtney Warner Crowell, said in an e-mail.
With data for analyzing equity crowdfunding in short supply, the S.E.C. asked RocketHub and Indiegogo, another donation-based crowdfunding service, to provide information about their operating practices and campaigns they had conducted. RocketHub complied, Mr. Hillel-Tuch said. But Indiegogo did not, said Slava Rubin, the company's chief executive, because it did not want to share trade secrets.
Mr. Hillel-Tuch said S.E.C. officials also requested help from Kickstarter, another leading crowdfunding site. Officials spoke with a Kickstarter executive in July, but neither the agency nor Kickstarter would comment on the meeting.
Under Title III, companies wishing to sell stock to the public will have to provide information to investors and the S.E.C., including financial disclosures that grow more extensive as the size of the offerings increases. They will be allowed to sell stock only through an intermediary: either a broker-dealer or a specialized crowdfunding Web site, or portal. The intermediaries will have to take steps to ensure that small investors are protected, even from themselves. The law limits how much a person can invest in crowdfunding in a year, depending on income and net worth.
Advocates for both investors and members of the crowdfunding industry have dissected nearly every element of the legislation. ''I think there are probably 25 or 30 legitimately important issues,'' said Douglas S. Ellenoff, a New York securities lawyer who is advising some in the industry. ''But I think they've all been hashed out. They have heard issues from a variety of angles, and I think that the draft proposals are fairly advanced.''
High on the list of priorities for the portals is to make sure they face less scrutiny from regulators than broker-dealers do. ''What we're asking for is the funding portals are viewed as sort of a broker-dealer-lite sort of model, where the mandates for broker-dealers are not imposed on a funding portal,'' said Ms. Wales, the crowdfunding lobbyist.
The crowdfunding interests are also warning regulators that some of the stringent investor protection measures could, if fully adopted, make crowdfunding prohibitively expensive. The law, for example, requires intermediaries to ''make such efforts as the commission determines appropriate'' to verify that investors have not exceeded their investment limits, across all intermediaries and stock issuers. But would-be intermediaries fear the prospect of having to confirm this independently, which could entail checking tax forms or creating a database of all investors.
The industry is likewise taking aim at a requirement that issuers raising more than $500,000 provide investors with audited financial statements. ''If you're a new business and you have to submit audited financials that you don't have yet, it doesn't make sense,'' said Mr. Hillel-Tuch of RocketHub. The law gives the S.E.C. discretion to change this threshold, and Mr. Hillel-Tuch argued that no business seeking to crowdfund should be subject to it.
Calling the requirement unrealistic, Indiegogo's Mr. Rubin said, ''There's no question that this is a massive deal breaker.'' He urged regulators to tread lightly. ''There's a lot to do here, but why not let the industry figure it out?'' he said. ''Along the way there will be some ups and downs, but in the long run, like the Internet, we'll have created an amazing industry.''
Investor protection advocates remain concerned about those downs. ''The thing about crowdfunding is that it brings together unsophisticated issuers with unsophisticated investors,'' said Ms. Roper of the Consumer Federation of America. ''What could possibly go wrong?''
An S.E.C. spokeswoman declined to comment on the status of the rules. This month, Mr. Merkley and several other legislators wrote to Ms. Schapiro, who stepped down on Dec. 14, to urge the agency to propose rules putting the crowdfunding legislation into effect ''in the most expeditious manner possible.''
Outside observers can only guess at what the commissioners -- now two Democrats and two Republicans -- will do next. But crowdfunding proponents say they remain optimistic, in part because they feel they have developed a good working relationship with their regulators at the S.E.C. ''I believe that with the dialogue we have had with the staff, we will see proposed rules that facilitate a responsible emerging industry with a viable economic model,'' said Mr. Ellenoff, the securities lawyer. ''I've been involved in other programs where I don't feel the same way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alon Hillel-Tuch, a founder of RocketHub, a crowdfunding site. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CROWDSOURCING (92%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (76%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); LOBBYING (74%); PERSONAL FINANCE (74%); STARTUPS (74%); ACCOUNTING (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (83%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%); MARY L SCHAPIRO (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



890 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Fiscal Endgame

 BODY:
Just before the Christmas break, negotiations on the so-called fiscal cliff ended on an absurdist note. House Republicans not only rejected President Obama's overly generous budget deal, including his offer to lift the income threshold for higher tax rates to $400,000 a year from $250,000, they also rejected their own leadership's proposal to raise the threshold for higher taxes to $1 million and to preserve tax breaks for the heirs of multimillion-dollar estates.
Most of the fiscal-cliff discussion has focused on higher income tax rates from the expiration of the Bush-era tax cuts and automatic across-the-board spending cuts. But failure to reach a deal by year-end would also bring about deeper and more immediate pain for low- and middle-income Americans. 
No deal means the end of federal unemployment benefits, averaging $290 a week. Some two million people would be cut off immediately, and nearly one million more who would be cut off in the first quarter of 2013. It means the end of the 2 percent payroll tax cut, which, for the past two years, has reduced taxes for 125 million households, boosting pay by nearly $1,000 a year for the typical household making $50,000.
It also means the end of improvements in tax credits for low-income working families, as well as a credit for low- and middle-income families with college costs, enacted in 2009. If the credits are pared, some 25 million Americans would lose an average of about $1,000 a year in benefits in 2013, and roughly eight million children would either fall into poverty or sink deeper into poverty. The child tax credit for a single mother working full time at the minimum wage, for instance, would be cut from $1,725 to $165. That would be a huge and shameful step backward.
Failure to resolve the fiscal cliff would also force 28 million Americans, most of them making between $100,000 and $500,000 a year, to pay the alternative minimum tax when they file their 2012 tax returns next year. Their situation is obviously not comparable to that of the working poor, but it is also unfair. The alternative tax was supposed to apply to multimillionaires whose tax breaks reduce their tax liability below a level that is considered a minimum fair share. But, for more than a decade, it has not operated that way. Rather, superrich Americans have largely escaped the alternative tax, while those further down the income scale are ensnared -- unless Congress votes to exempt them from the tax that they were never intended to pay.
With only five days left to make any progress this year, President Obama has sensibly called on Congress to pass a scaled-back plan that would extend the Bush-era tax cuts on incomes below $250,000, suspend the automatic spending cuts and extend federal jobless benefits. He has also called for a quick fix to the alternative minimum tax, so that the tax filing season can proceed without the administrative nightmare of retroactive adjustment.
All that would help to stabilize household budgets -- and the economy, which has shown signs of slowing recently, and which, in the absence of a deal, has no hope of faster growth in early 2013.
Passage of Mr. Obama's scaled-back plan would also buy time to reach a bigger deal later -- one that provides additional government spending to replace the stimulus that will be lost when the payroll tax cut expires and makes the low-income tax credits permanent, coupled with a higher debt limit and with deficit reduction that takes place as the economy recovers.
But if Congress cannot approve a deal by New Year's Day, the anticipated sell-off on Wall Street in early January would, one hopes, force House Republicans to budge.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (88%); POOR POPULATION (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); CHRISTMAS (73%); INCOME TAX (72%); CORPORATE TAX (71%); WORKING MOTHERS (70%); CHILD POVERTY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); CHILDREN (65%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



891 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Egypt's Flawed Constitution

 BODY:
Ideally, a new constitution in Egypt would unite citizens around a consensus vision for their country and set a firm foundation for a democratic transition. The Islamist-backed constitution that took effect this week has only exacerbated divisions and left millions of non-Islamists feeling disenfranchised, angry and determined to force changes in the document. 
If there is to be a durable solution, President Mohamed Morsi will have to take the lead in steering Egypt out of the chaos he did so much to create and toward compromise, including amendments to constitutional provisions many Egyptians find objectionable. He sounded a conciliatory note in a speech Wednesday, though he made no concessions. But the opposition -- secularists, liberals and Coptic Christians -- also has an important role. If it wants a larger voice in government, then it needs to behave like a responsible opposition, organizing and forging a common agenda among themselves and running candidates for the lower house of Parliament in elections expected in two months.
Although the constitutional referendum that concluded Saturday passed with about 64 percent ''yes'' votes, only 32.9 percent of nearly 52 million registered voters cast ballots. That, in turn, reflects disgust with a political process that included violent street protests and a president who, for a time, asserted dictatorial powers.
The constitution would fulfill some basic demands of the revolution that toppled Hosni Mubarak by ending the all-powerful presidency and strengthening Parliament. But it would also give Egypt's generals much of the power and privilege they had in the Mubarak era, and it is weak on civil rights.
After Mr. Morsi signed the decree on Tuesday putting the charter into effect, he relinquished legislative power to the usually toothless Shura Council, or upper house of Parliament. While that is a sign of progress, the council, like the government, is Islamist-dominated. It would be a serious mistake if the Shura Council, which itself will relinquish lawmaking responsibilities once the lower house is elected, overplayed its hand and enacted laws that provoked the opposition even more.
The State Department has urged Mr. Morsi to seek compromise. Egypt needs stability. Since 2010, its foreign currency reserves have plummeted from $36 billion to $15 billion, and, on Tuesday, there were signs that some Egyptians were hoarding dollars.
The country requires a $4.8 billion loan from the International Monetary Fund but can't complete the deal until fiscal reforms are enacted -- reforms that would go down more easily if Egyptians trusted the government and felt they were part of a plan that would benefit the common good. Other aid, from the United States and elsewhere, also is waiting on the fund and reforms.
Egyptians can continue internecine warfare and watch their economy collapse. Or they can pull together and a build a more constructive future. It's their choice.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ELECTIONS (76%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); RELIGION (69%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); GOLD & FOREIGN EXCHANGE RESERVES (60%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



892 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Personal Tech; TOOL KIT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 225 words

HEADLINE: Better E-Reading in the Dark

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN

 BODY:
Electronic readers aren't all that exciting. They're rectangular, their screens are black and white, and all can't do much more than display text. 
So how do you liven things up? For starters, Amazon and Barnes & Noble added lighting systems to their newest readers, the Kindle Paperwhite and the Nook Simple Touch, to make it easier for people to read in the dark.
In Amazon's Kindle Paperwhite, four LEDs mounted on the bottom of the reader shoot light toward the surface of the display. Barnes & Noble's lighting, called GlowLight, has a similar system with LEDs. Both these glowing e-book readers cost $120.
But will adding some lights be enough to prevent e-book readers from becoming an endangered species? The International Data Corporation, a research firm, said shipments of tablets, smartphones and PCs grew 27.1 percent from last year. However, e-book readers are losing momentum. In the United States, manufacturers sold nine million e-book readers this year, down from 15.5 million last year, according to Forrester Research.
So why would anyone still want a reader? Readers are still much cheaper than tablets in general; the cheapest Kindle costs $70, while the cheapest Kindle Fire tablet costs $160. And if all you want to do is read books, a dedicated reader is still the best device for the job, said Sarah Rotman Epps, a Forrester analyst.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC: Light Reading: The Kindle Paperwhite uses a unique lighting system to illuminate its electronic ink display. Rather than using a backlight as on LCD-based tablets, the Paperwhite uses a transparent light guide that directs light from four edge-mounted LEDs down toward the surface of the display. (Sources: Amazon
 E Ink) (GRAPHIC BY FRANK O'CONNELL/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC BOOKS (91%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); BOOKSTORES (90%); LIGHT EMITTING DIODES (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (53%)

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL DATA CORP (69%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (69%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



893 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Toyota Agrees To Deal in Suit Over Speedups

BYLINE: By BILL VLASIC

 BODY:
DETROIT -- Toyota Motor agreed on Wednesday to pay more than $1 billion to settle a class-action lawsuit related to issues of unintended acceleration in its vehicles.
The proposed settlement, filed in a Federal District Court in California, would be one of the largest of its type in automotive history. If the agreement is approved by Judge James V. Selna, Toyota would make cash payments for the loss of value on vehicles affected by multiple recalls and install special safety features on up to 3.2 million cars.
While there are still individual personal-injury and wrongful death lawsuits pending against Toyota, in addition to an unfair business practice case brought by the attorneys general of 28 states, the class-action case was the largest legal action related to economic losses by vehicle owners. 
The suit was filed in 2010 after numerous complaints were made to federal regulators that Toyota vehicles were accelerating suddenly without warning and causing accidents and injuries. Toyota has recalled more than eight million vehicles in the United States for problems related to floor mats that could become entangled with accelerator pedals, or pedals that could stick with the throttle open.
But the class-action case contended that Toyota's electronics systems were at fault. After a long investigation, government officials concluded last year that there was no evidence that faulty electronics systems contributed to the acceleration issues. But a subsequent review of that inquiry by a branch of the National Academy of Sciences found that federal regulators had lacked the expertise to monitor electronic controls in automobiles.
The company has been fined more than $60 million by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration for failing to inform regulators of internal information about the sudden acceleration, which the company has largely attributed to driver error.
The recalls mushroomed into broader problems for Toyota, which had long enjoyed a pristine reputation for quality, safety and reliability, and the class-action suit was a lingering obstacle to its steady comeback from the acceleration issues, which included testimony by its chief executive, Akio Toyoda, before Congress.
''This agreement marks a significant step forward for our company, one that will enable us to put more of our energy, time and resources into Toyota's central focus: making the best vehicles we can for our customers,'' said Christopher P. Reynolds, Toyota's chief legal officer in the United States.
Under the proposed settlement, Toyota agreed to create a fund of $250 million to pay claims to former owners of cars affected by the acceleration recalls. The company also agreed to install so-called brake override systems on cars whose pedals could stick or become trapped in floor mats. The company said it had already installed the systems on 2.6 million vehicles but that an additional 550,000 cars had not received the equipment.
In addition, the settlement provides a customer support program for more than 16 million current Toyota owners, who will be eligible for free repairs on certain parts for up to 10 years.
Toyota has also agreed to contribute $30 million to finance automotive safety research related to driver behavior and unintended acceleration.
The lead law firm for the plaintiffs estimated that the overall settlement could total $1.2 billion to $1.4 billion.
''We are pleased that Toyota has agreed to a settlement that was both extraordinarily hard-fought and is exceptionally far-reaching,'' said Steve Berman, the lawyer who led the settlement talks for the plaintiffs.
The amount a Toyota owner may receive for economic loss will be determined by a settlement administrator.
In its statement, Toyota said it would take a one-time charge of $1.1 billion against earnings to cover the costs of the class-action case as well as possible costs to resolve a consumer-protection lawsuit filed in California and the unfair-business-practices case.
One legal expert said the settlement appeared large but may be part of Toyota's longer-term strategy to move beyond the acceleration scandal.
''The class is very large, so each plaintiff will not receive very much,'' said Carl Tobias, a law professor at the University of Richmond. ''The timing of this and the huge fine Toyota recently agreed to pay suggest Toyota may be concerned about the personal injury cases, in which several trials are set for this spring.''
Toyota has recovered much of the sales lost in the aftermath of the sudden-acceleration problems in 2010 and its supply-chain troubles caused by the Japanese earthquake and tsunami in 2011.
The company's sales in the United States have increased 28 percent this year, about double the pace of growth for the overall market. One industry analyst said the proposed class-action settlement would help Toyota continue to rebuild its reputation and market share.
''Toyota wants to put its unintended acceleration recalls behind it once and for all,'' said Jesse Toprak, an analyst with the auto research site TrueCar.com. ''As costly as it may be, this settlement will allow them to remove most of the lingering financial uncertainty.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Toyota technician examined a car before installing a new accelerator pedal in 2010. At left, fixing an accelerator pedal assembly. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT GALBRAITH/REUTERS
 STEVEN SENNE/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUITS & CLAIMS (93%); LITIGATION (92%); CLASS ACTIONS (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TOYOTA RECALLS (89%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (78%); PERSONAL INJURY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (77%); PRODUCT RECALLS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (73%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (61%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (60%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ACADEMY OF SCIENCES (54%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (90%); TM (NYSE) (90%); 7203 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



894 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By ADAM W. KEPLER

 BODY:
NOON (FX) ENEMY OF THE STATE (1998) Will Smith, above, is Robert Clayton Dean, a model citizen who is framed for murder by a rogue government official (Jon Voight) and his team of agents in this conspiracy-filled fever dream, directed by Tony Scott. Gene Hackman is the grizzled retired government operative with the technological know-how who can help Robert clear his name. Janet Maslin, writing in The New York Times, said that while Mr. Scott, ''has done popular culture no great favor by pioneering the Simpson-Bruckheimer school of empty but sensation-packed filmmaking, he now looks like a veritable Billy Wilder beside latter-day Top Gunners like Michael ('Armageddon') Bay.'' She added, ''As a grand old man of the thrill-happy genre, Mr. Scott gives this film a fine cast, a modicum of wit on the run and a reasonably human dimension.'' 
7:55 A.M. (USA) ENCHANTED (2007) A wide-eyed Amy Adams, below, sings and dances her way through this revisionist fairy tale as Giselle, a princess who falls from her animated world to Times Square and finds shelter with a Manhattan lawyer and single father (Patrick Dempsey), while waiting for her prince (James Marsden) to come. Susan Sarandon does a nasty turn as the evil Queen Narissa, who will stop at nothing to knock off her future daughter-in-law; Timothy Spall is her bumbling henchman; and Kevin Lima, who directed, and Jeff Bennett lend their voices to Pip, a computer-generated chipmunk with some of the best scenes. Writing in The Times, Manohla Dargis called the film ''unexpectedly delightful.''
3 P.M. (Fox Movie Channel) NIGHT AT THE MUSEUM (2006) Ben Stiller stars as Larry Daley, a divorced, unemployed schlump on the verge of losing his 10-year-old son (Jake Cherry) who takes a job as night watchman at the American Museum of Natural History so he won't have to do the unthinkable: move to Queens from Manhattan. Soon enough, everything -- including a Tyrannosaurus rex, a statue from Easter Island and a cheeky monkey named Dexter -- has come to life. Robin Williams plays a wisdom-dispensing Teddy Roosevelt intent on whipping Larry into shape. In The Times, Stephen Holden wrote that the movie, ''knows how to build excitement by steadily accelerating the pace and widening the spectacle.'' He added, ''Almost in spite of itself, it sets off occasional little bursts of cinematic magic.'' The film's 2009 sequel follows at 5:30.
6 P.M. (Showtime) ALL GOOD THINGS (2010) Ryan Gosling, below, portrays David Marks, a fictional character based on Robert A. Durst, a son of the New York real estate developer Seymour Durst, in this film by Andrew Jarecki (''Capturing the Friedmans''). Kirsten Dunst is Katie, a stand-in for Robert's wife, Kathie, who disappeared in 1982 in a case that remains open. Frank Langella is Sanford Marks, the domineering patriarch based on the older Mr. Durst, who seemingly drives David to madness with his disappointment in David's inability to be a worthy heir. ''Mr. Jarecki gets much right in this movie, his fiction feature debut, but he never invests it with urgency,'' Manohla Dargis wrote in The Times. ''After the bodies have bled out, the puzzle pieces have been assembled, and the final credits have rolled, you are left with the feeling that his principal goal was reopening the case.''
6 P.M. (Sho2) THE SCHOOL OF ROCK (2003) Jack Black stars as Dewey Finn, a broke musician who impersonates his friend to land a substitute-teaching gig, in this comedy directed by Richard Linklater. When he discovers that his students possess some raw musical talent he jumps at the chance to instill in them some good old-fashioned rock 'n' roll skill. Joan Cusack plays the well-intentioned yet tightly wound principal. Writing in The Times, Stephen Holden compared Mr. Black to other kings of comedy: ''Not since Jim Carrey twitched, mugged and leered his way to the head of the class has a comic actor stirred up such a gleeful furor on the screen. And not since John Belushi has one used the anarchic roar of rock as a conceptual platform.''
9 P.M. (Bravo) THE REAL HOUSEWIVES OF MIAMI The housewives gather for a post-finale reunion to recap the drama that sprang from the second season.
9 P.M. (Lifetime) PROJECT RUNWAY ALL STARS Five contestants remain and they must create new ready-to-wear looks on a retail budget. The fashion designer Elie Tahari steps in as a guest judge and mentor.
9 P.M. (TLC) FOUR WEDDINGS Four brides attend one another's weddings at Harvard, a medieval castle, a maritime museum and in a backyard and then judge which wedding was the best. ADAM W. KEPLER

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINDA R. CHEN/TOUCHSTONE PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (75%); HISTORY (70%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (67%); SINGLE PARENTS (65%); LAWYERS (64%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: WILL SMITH (73%); PATRICK DEMPSEY (52%); BEN STILLER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



895 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 6522 words

HEADLINE: 2012: A Look Back, and Beyond

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Every day until Dec. 31, reporters and editors from The New York Times will recall the people, teams and moments that made the last year memorable, and in some cases look ahead to 2013.
* * *
Finding Hope in Football, and Providing It
By Jeré Longman
Kickoff for the Pennsylvania state championship game was minutes away. Music and a taped inspirational speech filled the Clairton High School locker room. But Terrish Webb sat outside on a set of concrete steps. He wiped tears from his eyes.
''I miss my dad,'' Webb, 17, told his close friend and teammate Robby Boatwright, who gave him a hug.
''I got your back,'' Boatwright said. ''I love you.'' 
Six years earlier, almost to the day, Webb's father had been shot to death as he drove his car in the late afternoon near the football field in Clairton, a frayed steel mill town south of Pittsburgh. Webb was 11 at the time. The case has never been solved.
''When you have tragedy like that in your immediate family, some kids tend to go the wrong way,'' said Wayne Wade, a former star quarterback at Clairton who is now the team's defensive coordinator. ''They can't handle it. They start to question themselves. Why me? They look into different avenues to go, which are negative. Terrish found a positive one in football with a lot of his friends. They vowed a long time ago that they wanted to win state championships and they did all the right things to do it.''
Clairton fell on hard times when the steel industry collapsed in the 1980s. Much of its downtown is abandoned, boarded up. But football has provided a glimmer of hope amid the civic gloominess. Webb caught a 21-yard touchdown pass in a 20-0 victory in the Class A title game on Dec. 14 at Hersheypark Stadium, helping Clairton to a fourth consecutive state championship and its 63rd consecutive win, the nation's longest current winning streak.
A 6-foot-1 receiver and cornerback, Webb caught 16 touchdown passes, rushed for 4 touchdowns and intercepted 8 passes this season. He is also the senior class president and ranks second in his class with a 3.8 grade-point average. He is considering playing college football at Kent State, Pittsburgh or Toledo.
''That's a special person who can come back from such adversity,'' Tom Nola, Clairton's coach, said of Webb. ''He's the best student on the team. He's going to college. He's going to make something of his life. My hat's off to him.''
Nola credited Webb's mother, Tinisha Webb, who works as an administrative assistant at a hospital in suburban Pittsburgh, with keeping Terrish from despair and stressing the importance of education. His friends, too, vowed that they would not succumb to the temptations and violence of a city where nearly a quarter of the 6,796 residents live below the poverty level.
''People think this is just football,'' Webb said. ''This is more than football to us. This is the way out from where we come from.''
* * *
Bid to Win Triple Crown Ends in Barn at Belmont
By Melissa Hoppert
It was a sun-drenched Friday morning at Belmont Park, and with an elusive Triple Crown on the line, the employees and even the horses seemed to have an extra bounce in their step.
One day stood between I'll Have Another and the history books: he had a chance to be the 12th Triple Crown winner and the first since Affirmed in 1978.
It had already been a magical run for the underdog colt and jockey Mario Gutierrez, who had won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes in thrilling fashion.
Not many people were at the trainer Doug O'Neill's barn at 9:30 a.m. that day, but those who were appeared in good spirits, hardly letting on that something was amiss with the champion colt.
O'Neill was said to be dealing with the arrival of his family, but in hindsight, he had bigger worries than travel arrangements.
By 11:30, O'Neill had confirmed on the Dan Patrick radio show that I'll Have Another was out of the Belmont Stakes with a tendon injury.
As word began to travel around Belmont Park, and the news media swarmed the detention barn, people were in a state of disbelief. One track worker called home: ''Did you hear that? They scratched the horse!'' Another said, ''I hear that he's never going to race again.'' A horseplayer threw his program and shouted, ''Unbelievable.''
Jimmy Crennan of nearby Williston Park, Long Island, who had been to every Belmont since 1980, was sitting in the backyard area. His thoughts? ''Shock and disappointment.''
''It's like the air comes out of the balloon,'' he said. ''I got here today, and I was in such good spirits.
''I'm sure there will be 30,000 less people here tomorrow now.''
Steve Wolfson, the son of Louis Wolfson, the owner of Affirmed, said: ''What a disappointment. It's just such a daunting task, and then for this to happen. I really feel bad about it, for the horse, for Doug O'Neill and Mario Gutierrez and for the public. It's really sad.''
The race went on, however, and a crowd of 85,811, the largest on a non-Triple Crown day, watched as Union Rags charged past Paynter to capture the Belmont Stakes.
I'll Have Another is now standing stud in Japan. But perhaps the story is not finished. His former owner, Paul Reddam, and O'Neill have another Derby contender for 2013: He's Had Enough.
* * *
A League's Ruinous Battle Against Itself
By Jeff Z. Klein
Bill Daly, the N.H.L.'s deputy commissioner, is a man not normally given to purple public statements. But when he said ''the hill we will die on'' during a news conference Dec. 6, he angrily summed up where the N.H.L. went in a ruinous 2012.
Daly used that phrase while standing next to Commissioner Gary Bettman, who was visibly shaking with rage, as they explained why they had just rejected the players' latest proposal and extended the N.H.L.'s lockout.
''Term limits on player contracts, which is the hill we will die on,'' Daly said.
It was a telling choice of words -- an utterance so evocative of gallant sacrifice and heroic last stands, yet made in connection with a mere business issue.
But that is how Bettman, Daly and the N.H.L. owners seem to view this lockout: as a kind of apocalyptic battle in which the players union must be defeated, even if the world must be brought down to do so.
Some blame Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, for the impasse. But Fehr was not around for the N.H.L. lockout in 1994-95, or the one that wiped out the 2004-5 season -- nobody in the union leadership was.
The only people in leadership positions during all three lockouts are on the league side: Bettman; Jeremy Jacobs, the Boston Bruins' owner; and Bob Batterman, the Proskauer Rose lawyer known for directing sports lockouts. (Daly was a key player in the last two lockouts.)
Lockouts are now a habit with the N.H.L., and this one will continue into 2013, even though the players have made most of the concessions and Bettman is excoriated by figures as diverse as Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey (''This is the third time this has happened in recent memory -- you know, that's bad management'') and the president of the Kontinental Hockey League, Alexander Medvedev (''How egotistical the N.H.L. is -- financial issues trump the development of the game for them'').
Even if a settlement is reached in the weeks to come, the damage has been done: many avid fans have lost interest, and the N.H.L. has slid back into the near irrelevance in the American sports landscape that it only recently escaped after so many years of struggle.
Daly was talking about contract lengths when he used the ominous phrase, but in the larger sense, he was right. This lockout may indeed be the hill the N.H.L. will die on.
* * *
Losing Marathon, and Heart
By Ken Belson
A wise editor once said, It takes years to build trust and a minute to erase it. He was talking about the news business, but he could also have been talking about New York Road Runners.
The group has spent decades turning its five-borough race, the New York City Marathon, into a 26.2-mile international celebration that unites millions of New Yorkers in the streets every November. It has become one of the city's most heartwarming events.
But much of that good will was swept away after Hurricane Sandy pummeled the city. Rather than cancel the race, which was scheduled for less than a week after the storm, and give its food, water and supplies to the newly homeless or ask runners to donate their entry fees to relief efforts, the running group, egged on by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, forged ahead.
''It's a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you know, you've got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind,'' Bloomberg said that week.
The decision backfired. Instead of bucking up the city's spirits, the race became a lightning rod for critics -- including many runners -- who saw Bloomberg and Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, as callous elitists more willing to host out-of-town athletes than to help shivering residents on Staten Island.
When political rivals took aim at him and protesters threatened to disrupt the race, Bloomberg was finally persuaded to call off the race, leaving Wittenberg to repair the event's tattered image. In waiting until the city reached full boil, the mayor and Wittenberg had many asking, What were they thinking?
Institutional inertia was partly to blame. New York Road Runners spends a year preparing for the race; no doubt Wittenberg was reluctant to throw all that work away.
But hubris played a role, too. Did the mayor really believe it was a good idea for police officers, emergency medical technicians and other public workers to man a road race instead of caring for the city's neediest? Did Wittenberg really think the average Joe in Brooklyn was in the mood to cheer for runners who had plenty of food while others scrounged for a meal?
With Bloomberg leaving office in a year, it will be up to Wittenberg to do the tough work of rebuilding the Road Runners brand and winning back the city's heart. Perhaps the hard lessons learned after the storm will not be forgotten.
* * *
In Pictures | Soccer: Olympics, Euro 2012 and Beckham
* * *
Stretching the Invisible Borders of a Sport
By Juliet Macur
Gabby Douglas, the spunky, fresh-faced gymnast once held back by self-doubt, was not supposed to win the gold medal in the all-around at the 2012 London Olympics.
She was what the United States women's team coordinator Martha Karolyi had called ''an average national team gymnast'' who was not even expected to beat a teammate, Jordyn Wieber, the reigning world champion in the all-around. To Karolyi, Wieber was the second coming of Nadia Comaneci, and Douglas was just a sidekick, too inexperienced and unfocused to perform when it counted the most.
But the 16-year-old Douglas skyrocketed to the top of the sport in a matter of five months.
With uncanny steadiness and precision, she won the all-around title at the Olympics -- the first black gymnast to earn the top spot and only the fourth American woman to do so. Afterward, she let out her trademark giggle and said, ''Wow, I believed in myself!'' as if she even amazed herself that she had pulled off what was once unthinkable.
As she stood atop the Olympic podium, Douglas beamed at her family members in the arena as they wiped away tears. Her mother, Natalie Hawkins, a plucky single mother of four, and Douglas's three siblings hugged one another and said, again and again, that all their sacrifices were worth it.
The biggest sacrifice was losing Douglas for nearly two years. In 2010, at age 14, she left her family in Virginia Beach, Va., to train in Iowa with Liang Chow, the coach who had helped Shawn Johnson win an Olympic gold medal in 2008. Douglas lived with a host family because her own family could not afford to pay for her housing.
Though that family, the Partons, was kind and generous, with four young daughters who soon looked to Douglas as a big sister, Douglas felt awkward at first. She missed sleeping in her own bed. She missed her two dogs. And she missed the beach, where she loved to go boogie boarding. She nearly quit the sport because she was so homesick.
But her resolve to stick with it paid off. In March, Douglas recorded the highest score in the women's all-around event at the American Cup, beating Wieber, the favorite to win the Olympic gold. Douglas's score didn't count, though, because she had competed as an alternate. So she stood back to watch Wieber accept the prize.
By July, Douglas had won the Olympic trials, dealing Wieber only her second all-around loss in four years. The next step: the Olympic gold.
Now Douglas has gone big time. She was featured on Corn Flakes boxes and the cover of People magazine. She was named one of the women of the year by magazines like Essence and Glamour.
Douglas had a feeling that this would be her fate.
''I have an advantage because I'm the underdog and I'm black and no one thinks I'd ever win,'' she said two months before the Olympics. ''Well, I'm going to inspire so many people. Everybody will be talking about, 'How did she come up so fast?' But I'm ready to shine.''
* * *
Every Move and Throw Under Watch
By Judy Battista
In any other camp, with any other quarterback, it would have been a simple game of catch while the cool morning mist burned off. But it was Peyton Manning and it was Denver -- Denver, that was strange enough, and John Elway was milling somewhere around those practice fields. And so there were notes to take and charts to keep, a half dozen or so reporters looking on, trying to decide if the touch was still there on the short fade routes Manning tossed over and over to receivers he was just getting to know.
Manning's recovery from four neck operations took the N.F.L. wire to wire in 2012. There were the occasional jabs he threw at the Indianapolis Colts in January as they fired one after another of the people Manning had known for years -- he said then that he was walking on eggshells. Then came his tearful news conference at which his release became official, and a coast-to-coast free agent odyssey, with helicopters and blacked-out car windows, and finally his remarkable on-field resurrection.
Manning was the dominant player of the year, given the sort of scrutiny that usually attends the vicissitudes of royal romances. We saw the video as the Colts removed the building-high pictures of him from the side of their stadium. Then we saw the video as he met surreptitiously with teams -- did the orange sweater mean anything to Manning, a former Tennessee Volunteer, on his visit to the Tennessee Titans? And then we saw the video as Manning barked at his new teammates during a game. Same as it ever was.
From the start in Denver, Manning gamely tried to lower expectations for his play, to no avail. He is still, now, with his team on the cusp of securing a playoff bye, insisting that he has much work to do -- defensive coordinators are probably sick of hearing that -- and he bristled at the dissection of his passes that accompanied his return. But it was Eric Decker, one of the receivers with whom Manning was doing extra work on the side that day in August, who may have given the best indication of what was to come months later.
''I've never seen a guy demand so much out of himself or his teammates,'' he said. ''He throws a football better than I've ever seen a quarterback throw a football. He allows us so many greater opportunities.''
In 2013, Manning may have an opportunity that even he, when he tried to throw a pass to his friend Todd Helton last year that nose-dived into the ground, might never have imagined he'd have again. The Broncos will enter the N.F.L. playoffs as one of the highest seeds, with a top-five offense supported by a top-five defense. From the nadir of his career, Manning has worked himself all the way back -- to be on, maybe, the best team he's ever had.
* * *
States Feed the Spread of Sports Wagering
By Joe Drape
Huey Long, as Louisiana's governor, promised a chicken in every pot. New York's Andrew M. Cuomo wants table games in as many corners of the state as possible, and New Jersey's Chris Christie hopes to build brick-and-mortar sports books and to make the Garden State a hub for online gambling.
They are hardly alone. From Kansas to Massachusetts, there is a gold rush by some states to embrace all forms of wagering to shore up their shrinking budgets.
Think of 2013 as a roulette wheel and a host of states with marbles in the game. New York intends to lay the groundwork for seven casinos. Ground is also likely to be broken in Massachusetts for three, including one in the Boston area.
And with Nevada having already approved online poker and begun preparing sites to be operating in early 2013, Governor Christie is certain to have the fate of Atlantic City, as well as the state's horse racing industry, in his hands as two bills continue to gather momentum.
An online gambling bill has already passed the New Jersey Assembly and Senate, and one of Internet gambling's top sites, PokerStars, is negotiating to acquire the Atlantic Club casino on the Jersey Shore.
This would be no less than a portal to the 22nd century and perhaps a mother lode for new tax revenue.
Christie has also vowed to defy a federal ban on sports wagering, and New Jersey's Legislature enacted a sports betting law in January, paving the way for sports books in Atlantic City casinos and the state's horse racing tracks.
The N.C.A.A. and three professional leagues argue that gambling hurts the integrity and perception of their games. This is an especially rich argument coming from the National Football League since two of its earliest owners, Art Rooney and Tim Mara, were gamblers. In 1936, Rooney, whose family still owns the Pittsburgh Steelers, turned two prescient days at the racetrack into $300,000. In 1925, Mara, a bookmaker, paid $500 for the Giants.
The N.F.L. injury report and betting lines certainly exist for a reason, and it's no accident that the league accounts for nearly 55 percent of the more than $1.3 billion wagered on football in Nevada in 2011.
So the leagues have done pretty well for decades alongside legalized sports gambling in Nevada, with billions more of illegal betting in bar rooms, fantasy leagues and offshore Web sites.
Now, the question being asked in state and federal courthouses is: why not take the sports book national, or even global?
* * *
After the Storm, Brooklyn's Moment
By Benjamin Hoffman
Everything had gone right for the Nets. Their new home in Brooklyn was complete, their apparel had become a huge hit among fans, they unexpectedly retained their signature star, and they were going to be able to show all of that off in a season opener against the Knicks.
Then Hurricane Sandy hit.
With the city's tunnels flooded, gasoline becoming scarce and the subway system shut down, suddenly the opener, scheduled for Nov. 1, had to be postponed and all of the excitement seemed to wither away.
Two days later, with the transit system still a mess and the city in a fierce debate over the cancellation of the marathon, it was decided that the Nets would go ahead with their scheduled game against the Toronto Raptors, a far less exciting opponent than the Knicks, risking empty seats in what they had hoped would be their grand debut.
A message posted to Twitter by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo that morning got things going in the right direction as he announced that the 4 and 5 trains would resume service, meaning that the large number of people in Manhattan hoping to see the game (including this reporter, who lives in Brooklyn but found himself working in Times Square that morning) would not have to brave the long lines for slow shuttle buses or break out their swim trunks for a jaunt across the East River.
As people shuffled onto the train at Grand Central Terminal, more than a few Nets hats were visible as everyone seemed somewhat unsure that the subways could really be back. Just days before, people had been walking to work across the Brooklyn Bridge and through a mostly abandoned and powerless downtown, but now the city was starting to feel more like itself.
Come game time, the crowd had filled out nicely, helped by a last-minute surge in ticket sales through online marketplaces like StubHub, and the Nets took the floor with Jay-Z watching and BrooklyKnight rappelling from the ceiling.
It was not a pretty game, with the Nets falling behind early and then struggling to catch up, but a strong second quarter led to the first major Brooklyn sports team since 1957 winning, 107-100.
Considering everything that had gone into the move from New Jersey, and the conditions surrounding the season's start, the actual basketball was the easy part.
* * *
A Stoicism That Can't Be Cracked
By Naila-Jean Meyers
A single clap. Andy Murray had just broken Novak Djokovic for the second time in the fifth set of the United States Open final, and all he got from his coach, Ivan Lendl, was one measly clap. In the previous set, when Murray won an exhilarating 30-shot rally and the nearly 24,000 fans at Arthur Ashe Stadium erupted, Lendl did not see fit to join that ovation either.
It was hard to take my eyes off Lendl that Monday night as the captivated crowd surrounding him gasped and roared at every lunging forehand and ripped backhand -- even with the distraction of Sean Connery sitting nearby, wrapped in a blue blanket and pumping his fist for Murray, his fellow Scot.
As a summer's day became a blustery night, as Djokovic and Murray took turns muttering to themselves, Lendl was the model of stoic calm -- awkwardly dressed in a red sweater and white shorts, often hunched over, elbow on knee, chin in hand.
But that's why he was there. That's why the mercurial Murray chose Lendl to be his coach this year. Lendl knew what it was like to come so close and fall short over and over. He knew, as Murray knew, as Britain knew. There would be no cheering until it was over.
Murray took us along on his emotional roller coaster in 2012. The heartbreak of his loss in the Wimbledon final, when he had Roger Federer on his heels, then the rain came, the roof closed, and it ended with Murray tearfully saying, ''Getting closer.'' The leap for joy one month later when Murray dismantled Federer on the same court for the Olympic gold medal, part of the crescendo of British athletic greatness at the London Games. The relief -- the word Murray chose when asked to summarize his feelings -- when he outlasted Djokovic that September night for his coveted first Grand Slam title, becoming the first British man to capture a Grand Slam singles championship since Fred Perry in 1936.
When it was really, truly over, Murray was holding the trophy and thanking his coach in front of the crowd, saying, ''I think that was almost a smile.''
The match itself was a roller coaster. Murray won the first two sets, including a 12-10 first-set tiebreaker, then saw Djokovic fight back. They played for 4 hours 54 minutes, on the 15th day of another United States Open tormented by bad weather.
For the record, it wasn't even the longest Grand Slam final this year: that was Djokovic's 5-hour-53-minute victory over Rafael Nadal at the Australian Open. It was a can-you-top-this year for men's tennis. Djokovic, Nadal, Federer and Murray each won Grand Slam tournaments. Federer reclaimed the No. 1 ranking for four months and won his first major title in two and a half years. Djokovic won six titles, returned to No. 1 and was the player of the year. All that was missing was a full-strength Nadal, who succumbed to bad knees after winning the French Open.
A liberated Murray. A persistent Djokovic. A determined Federer. A (hopefully) healthy Nadal. It's shaping up to be a 2013 season that might make even Lendl stand up and cheer.
* * *
Finding Security In a Different SEC
By Brad Smith
When I first moved to New York in 1981, I was pleasantly surprised to learn how much New Yorkers loved college football. As I moved from the South, where Saturdays in the fall rival Sundays for the holiest of days, my belief that it was a regional sport was put aside.
Virtually every day in the paper and on the news, there was a mention of the SEC. Being loyal to my own Southeastern Conference team (Florida), I was happy to know that I was living in the Greatest City in the World, which in turn was equally infatuated with the Greatest Conference in the World. But because of the Ivan Boeskys of the world, I soon learned that the Securities and Exchange Commission was not the SEC I grew up rooting for. New York's S.E.C. was not my SEC.
When I hear SEC today, thankfully, Wall Street is not at the front of my thoughts. I'm thinking of Gainesville, Tuscaloosa and Athens. And while there are similarities between the two (much of the country loathes both, for example), I'm forever locked into the one that throws the pigskin for a long gain, not the one that looks for long-term gains on pork futures. Besides, to paraphrase Babe Ruth, my SEC had a better year than that S.E.C. As a matter of fact, six in a row.
Starting with the 2006 Bowl Championship Series title game between Florida and Ohio State, the SEC has won six consecutive national championships, with four teams. (Florida, Louisiana State, Alabama and Auburn). This past January, much to the disappointment of 99 percent of the country and a television network, two SEC teams played for the title (Alabama and L.S.U.). This year, Alabama is again carrying the torch for the conference of (my) choice, and Notre Dame carrying it for, well, the other 10 conferences and the other 109 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
Division I college football has been dominated by one conference, one I'm proud to be a die-hard fan of for four decades. As I look at my increasingly small savings account, it's quite obvious I've spent way too much time following Barrett Jones rather than Dow Jones. For me, it was money well spent.
* * *
Cricket Rivalry of Nations, All for a Six-Inch Trophy
By Victor Mather
For much of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, there were fewer sure things in sports than the result of the Ashes, the cricket series held every two years between Australia and England.
Regular as clockwork, the Australians drubbed their rivals, winning eight straight series from 1989 to 2003.
But that changed in 2005, when England pulled off an upset that pushed soccer off the London tabloids' back pages. After an Australian win in 2007, the English have seemed to take over dominance with wins in 2009 and 2011. The series resumes this summer, with anticipation high in both hemispheres.
Cricket has been booming in many parts of the world, thanks to a new fast format known as Twenty20, in which matches can be completed in less than the time of a baseball game.
But the Ashes is old school. The teams play a series of five matches, each lasting five days, with six hours of play or more each day. A single player may bat for hours or even all day, gamely hitting defensive shots (something like fouling off pitches in baseball) in hopes of securing a draw. It is not for the casual fan.
But for the aficionados, there is nothing like the Ashes, especially when played, as it will be this summer, at the hallowed English grounds like Lord's and the Oval.
Most English cricket fans can tell you every detail of the match in Leeds in 1981 when their team rallied from a hopeless position (they trailed by 227 runs after one innings and bowled Australia out for 111!). And Australians love to crow about their 5-0 series sweep of 2007, the first since 1921.
The Ashes dates to 1882, when after an Australian win a newspaper published a mock obituary proclaiming the death of English cricket and stating that ''the body will be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia.'' A few weeks later, an English team went off to Australia and its captain, Ivo Bligh, vowed to return with ''the ashes.'' An Australian team presented him with a tiny urn symbolic of the Ashes. At about six inches, it is surely the smallest major sports trophy in the world.
Under a new captain, Alastair Cook, and with the mercurial superstar Kevin Pietersen back in the fold after a text messaging controversy, England is the clear favorite.
In the storied history of the series, Australia leads by 31-30. Wouldn't the English love to even that up this summer?
* * *
Falling Apart After Getting It Half Right
By Bill Pennington
Tiger Woods came off the 18th green after his second round in the 2012 P.G.A. Championship at Kiawah Island tied for the lead. Again.
It was the third consecutive major championship that Woods was in or near the lead at the halfway point.
This had once been a familiar sight -- missing maybe for a couple of years, but for more than a decade before, the golf world knew exactly how Woods looked in command of a big tournament. And fans worldwide knew the frequent outcome: 14 major victories.
But in 2012, as good as Woods could sometimes be, there was one Woods on the weekdays of major tournaments and an altogether different Woods on the weekends, especially the last three.
His average score in the first two rounds of this year's majors was 70, while his average score in the final two rounds was 72.9. It was worse than the statistics indicated -- no weekend round under par and three rounds of 74 or higher. In the final three majors, Woods's average weekday round was even lower (68.8). His weekend average was 72.8.
This was Tiger Woods, golf's ultimate closer?
Not insignificant, it was notable who stole the show from Woods on the final days of the P.G.A. As the third round began at Kiawah Island in early August, Rory McIlroy birdied five of his first nine holes. Well aware of McIlroy's fast start, Woods answered by going three over par in his first seven holes -- holes he had played in three under during the first two rounds.
Woods was not just off his game, he was having trouble keeping the ball in play. With a 15th career major on the line, he yanked tee shots onto adjacent holes, hit one shot into the crowd, flew the green on a par 3 and, at one point, hit three consecutive, dreadfully wayward shots.
In the final round the next day, McIlroy shot a 66 to win by eight strokes. Woods shot a 72 and settled for 11th. Who would have ever thought Tiger Woods would settle for anything in a championship moment?
''I've got to just keep putting myself in a position to win, and if it happens often enough, then I will win,'' Woods said afterward, uttering a line that sounded as if it came from an up-and-coming rookie waiting to break through on the PGA Tour. Except Woods turns 37 on Dec. 30.
This is not to say that Woods will not win another major. He may win two in 2013 and two more the year after that. It is certainly more promising for him that he came close three times in 2012, which was a departure from his middling performances in 2010 and 2011. But the cracks in the armor are breaches apparent to all at this point. Even as he finished the second round at the P.G.A. Championship in August -- with a chance to take the outright lead -- what did Woods do?
He three-putted the 18th green.
It may all be a part of the process that Woods likes to talk about these days. Every revival has its incremental steps forward. And every retreat has its incremental steps backward.
In time, we will see which way Woods is marching. But throughout this year, it was odd to watch him fall apart so routinely because he was the one golfer you once could routinely count on to do the opposite.
* * *
Upon Further Review, the Truth Is Revealed
By John Branch
The following story is not true -- yet.
After years of experimenting and increasing the use of instant replay to weed out errors in officiating, several American sports will no longer be held live, but entirely on replay, to ensure that there were no mistakes.
In the N.F.L., for example, the hope is to eliminate delays caused by the persistent huddling of indecisive officials and the frequent departure of the referee to watch the replay in a private sideline viewing chamber.
Now, the game itself will be the replay.
''We have to work out some of the logistics,'' N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''For example, how do we have a replay before we have an actual game? But we're optimistic that we'll solve it. We're the N.F.L.''
Replay reviews, while appreciated by those who want near perfection in officiating, have been the source of much frustration for N.F.L. fans in particular. Many insist that they have better things to do than waste an extra two or three minutes of a Sunday after having already set aside their day in three-, six- or nine-hour increments.
The N.B.A. may create a model for others to follow. It will initially conduct all its games at empty arenas, then re-enact them in front of fans so officiating crews will not be met with surprises.
Any last-second baskets, or long jump shots made with a toe imperceptibly close to the 3-point line, will have been rehearsed. That will prevent the familiar momentum-killing sight of officiating crews bent over tiny sideline replay monitors while fans around the globe are forced to wait, as if they have time for that.
Now, the outcome of the play will be known before it happens.
''We really feel this will speed up our games,'' N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said in a statement.
Major League Baseball finds replay useful mostly in determining whether a ball lands over a large fence or in front of the fence, or on one side of an enormous neon-colored pole or the other. Rather than relying on replay, baseball is considering whether to gauge home runs by watching to see if the ball goes over the large fence and on one side of the nearest enormous neon-colored pole.
The N.C.A.A. may eliminate the use of instant replay. The outcomes of the games are not important, an N.C.A.A. spokesman said, because what matters most is that the athletes get a good education. Human fallibility is a worthy lesson, he added.
The impetus for all the changes came from last summer's United States Olympic track and field trials, during which Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh tied in the 100 meters. No number of replays -- or discussions over the exact location of the torso -- could discern a winner.
The delay was not minutes, but days. Finally, the answer came straight from the schoolyard: a do-over.
Alas, a runoff never happened; Tarmoh declined to take part.
Still, it made sports executives realize that if we simply had the final answer in the first place, fans would not be forced to wait for the result. The solution, in front of us all along, is simply to make replay the game itself.
* * *
What Might Have Been, or Still Could Be
By Barry Bearak
When Derrick Rose went down with a torn-up left knee, it was hard not to contemplate the career he might never have: the lost Most Valuable Player awards and the never-to-be-won N.B.A. titles. The Chicago Bulls announcer Stacey King liked to describe the electrifying Rose as ''too big, too strong, too fast, too good.''
Was he now to add ''too sad''?
The post-Michael Jordan Bulls were a dismal, star-crossed team, suffering a decade of mediocrity until a gust of good luck blew their way. In the 2008 draft, the team vaulted from the No. 9 spot to No. 1, hitting the jackpot when they had only a 1.7 percent chance to win the lottery.
Rose, a 19-year-old point guard and Chicago native, became the rookie of the year and then an All-Star, then the league's youngest M.V.P. ever, leading the Bulls to the N.B.A.'s best record two years in a row. He was also likable in a Windy City sort of way: not a preening, partying prima donna, but a guy who squared his big shoulders and quietly went about his business.
In the strike-shortened 2011-12 season, Rose missed 27 of the 66 games with injuries that seemed to skip up and down his lower extremities: the foot, the ankle, the knee, the groin. But he was healthy in April when the playoffs began, and in the first game of the opening series, the top-seeded Bulls were easily beating the Philadelphia 76ers.
Then, with 1 minute 22 seconds left and Chicago ahead by 12, Rose moved toward the hoop with the ball, cutting right in his customary whirligig fashion, though this time awkwardly planting his left foot on the floor. He heard a pop. He had torn the anterior cruciate ligament.
Rose writhed in pain. The arena went silent. And the long months of wondering began. Would a reborn Derrick Rose with a rebuilt knee ever again come gyrating through the lane -- too big, too strong, too fast, too good -- looking every bit as amazing as the original?
* * *
No Place to Hide When a Ball Comes Back
By Tyler Kepner
It was an ordinary pitch, 91 miles per hour on the outside corner, not much different from the 1,651 others Brandon McCarthy had thrown last season. From the press box at Oakland Coliseum that September afternoon, it looked for an instant like a routine single to center by the Angels' Erick Aybar.
But the ball never got there. It crashed into the back of McCarthy's head. He tried to escape its path but could not react in time. McCarthy, then with the Athletics, crumpled to the ground. It was a moment that made you wince -- ''It was really hard to see,'' his opponent, Dan Haren, said after the game -- but McCarthy sat up almost instantly, running his hands through his hair, and he walked off the field. Disaster averted.
Again, a wrong assumption, or nearly so. McCarthy was taken to a hospital for a precautionary examination, and soon, he was in surgery. The line drive had fractured his skull and caused an epidural hemorrhage and brain contusion. McCarthy recovered but missed the rest of the season.
The next month, across the bay in San Francisco in Game 2 of the World Series, another tall and lanky right-hander threw another pitch destined for danger. Doug Fister of the Detroit Tigers took a liner off the right side of his head from the Giants' Gregor Blanco. Yet Fister did not even fall. After an exam on the mound, he kept pitching.
''Got a little bump,'' he said by his locker, casually. ''Other than that, there's nothing.''
The events were harrowing reminders of the destructive force of a batted ball, and the varying consequences of two hits that may look the same. McCarthy was lucky to be alive; Fister was luckier still. But a first-base coach in the minors, Mike Coolbaugh, was killed by a foul ball in 2007. Now all base coaches in the minors and the majors wear helmets.
After Fister was struck, the Fox broadcaster Tim McCarver raised on the air the possibility of pitchers' wearing helmets. Some players lampooned the idea on Twitter, but in December, ESPN reported that baseball was working with six companies designing protective headgear for pitchers. A selection of prototypes could be available in time for spring training.
Hitters have been slow to accept safer, oversize helmets, and a padded pitcher's cap would seem to face similar resistance. Pitchers depend on precise, repetitive movements and will be wary of anything disruptive. Besides, nobody wants to look funny.
Comfort, style and safety are often competing interests. Sometimes, though, they could come together to save a pitcher's life. Let's hope it happens soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The trainer Doug O'Neill with I'll Have Another on June 8 as the owner Paul Reddam announced the horse would not run in the Belmont Stakes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B10)
IN PICTURES: SOCCER: Olympics, Euro 2012, Beckham and, of Course, Messi: Top, Megan Rapinoe of the U.S. with a slide tackle in an exhibition against China in December. The U.S. women won Olympic gold in London in August. Middle, David Silva, right, helped Spain defeat Italy in the Euro 2012 final in Kiev, Ukraine. A fan of Spain, above, enjoyed the final in a downtown viewing area inWarsaw. On Page B11, Lionel Messi, who scored a record 91 goals in 2012, and his Barcelona teammates celebrating after winning the Copa del Rey
and David Beckham won another M.L.S. title in his final game with the Los Angeles Galaxy. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BOB LEVEY/GETTY IMAGES
ALEX LIVESEY/GETTY IMAGES
ANDRZEJ HRECHOROWICZ/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY
ANDRES KUDACKI/ASSOCIATED PRESS
JEFF GROSS/GETTY IMAGES) (B10
B11)
Mary Wittenberg, New York Road Runners' chief. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TIMOTHY A. CLARY/A.F.P. -- GETTY IMAGES)
 Terrish Webb helped Clairton High to its fourth straight Pennsylvania state football championship. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WILL YURMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (79%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (68%); SHOOTINGS (68%); GRADES & GRADING (60%)

PERSON: DAVID BECKHAM (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); KIYEV, UKRAINE (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (59%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (59%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SPAIN (92%); UKRAINE (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



896 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Premier Is Chosen To Govern Japan Again

BYLINE: By MARTIN FACKLER

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Parliament formally elected Shinzo Abe as prime minister on Wednesday, ending a three-year break from decades of near-constant rule by his conservative Liberal Democratic Party.
The victory puts Mr. Abe, 58, a former prime minister and an outspoken nationalist, at Japan's helm as it faces the growing burden of its aging population, years of industrial decline and the challenge of an increasingly assertive China. The change in prime ministers is the seventh in six years, a high turnover that is itself a sign of the nation's inability to escape its long economic funk.
Mr. Abe won the support of 328 members of the 480-seat lower house, a total that included votes from the Liberal Democrats' coalition partner, a small Buddhist party. 
Mr. Abe's pro-business party won a landslide victory over the left-leaning Democratic Party in lower-house elections on Dec. 16. Earlier on Wednesday, Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda and his cabinet resigned to make way for the new leader.
Despite Mr. Abe's vows to strengthen control of a chain of islands in the East China Sea that both Japan and China claim, he has played down any confrontations between Tokyo and its Asian neighbors since the elections, instead focusing his agenda on lifting Japan's economy out of recession before the upper-house elections next summer.
Mr. Abe has vowed to encourage growth quickly by offering 10 trillion yen, or about $120 billion, in public works and other emergency stimulus spending. He has also promised to force the central bank to move more aggressively to combat deflation and to weaken the value of the yen, actions that would offer relief to beleaguered export industries by making Japanese products cheaper abroad.
The measures are intended to revive the economy ahead of the elections in June, to give Mr. Abe's party a better chance of winning the upper house and, with it, control of Parliament. Mr. Abe will have to hurry to retain the support of Japan's weary voters, who have shown themselves quick to turn against leaders who fail to deliver on promises of change.
Immediately after the vote on Wednesday, Mr. Abe began appointing a cabinet filled with relatively young and unknown faces. While many of these appointees are Mr. Abe's friends, the fresh lineup is also apparently intended to emphasize that the party has changed since it was driven from power three years ago.
Among the few veterans in the cabinet is Taro Aso, 72, a former prime minister, who was appointed finance minister. The post of foreign minister went to Fumio Kishida, 55, a former minister in charge of Okinawan affairs. He is expected to try to smooth ties with the United States, which have been frayed by a dispute over an American air base on Okinawa.
Mr. Abe will face other early challenges, like bridging a rift within his party over whether Japan should join a new regional free-trade agreement led by the United States. The pact, called the Trans-Pacific Partnership, is supported by business leaders but opposed by farmers, two groups that are among the staunchest supporters of the Liberal Democrats.
Another challenge will be responding to China's stepped-up efforts to assert its claims to the disputed islands, which Japan calls the Senkaku and China calls the Diaoyu. Chinese ships and, more recently, aircraft now make almost daily incursions into Japanese-controlled waters and airspace near the islands, with no signs of letting up.
Mr. Abe has been vague about whether he will shift his energies to his long-held desire to rewrite Japan's antiwar Constitution to allow for a full-fledged military.
Mr. Abe and other conservatives say such a step is needed for Japan to stand up for itself in light of China's growing strength, and to share more of the regional security burden with the United States. However, the move could also be seen as provocative by China and South Korea, two victims of Japan's World War II-era militaristic policies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shinzo Abe 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (86%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); DEFLATION (76%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (75%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); CURRENCIES (69%); JAPANESE YEN (64%); CENTRAL BANKS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (63%); AGING (56%); RELIGION (54%); ISLANDS & REEFS (52%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (93%); YOSHIHIKO NODA (59%); TARO ASO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (91%) EAST CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (70%) JAPAN (96%); CHINA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



897 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; STATEHOUSE JOURNAL; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: Washington State Senators Cross Aisle and Tilt Ideological Balance

BYLINE: By KIRK JOHNSON

 BODY:
OLYMPIA, Wash. -- From the governor-elect on down, through both chambers of the Legislature, a tincture of blue political monoculture drifts through Washington State politics like mist through the pines.
Or is the Democrat-led consensus an illusion, a distortion of liberal Seattle, Washington's urban center and the heartland of the Pacific Northwest left? Two Democrats in the State Senate, in bolting from the party's ranks this month to join with Republicans in creating a new majority coalition, say yes.
True representation of state residents -- republican government with a small ''r'' -- demanded a broader discussion and a larger voice, they said, for marginalized segments of the electorate. 
''Seattle-centric,'' said Senator Tim Sheldon, a two-decade veteran lawmaker and Democrat from a district west of Olympia, summing up the combination of forces that alienated him: safe seats in Seattle, campaign money raised in safe seats but spread around, and a caucus that rewards and reinforces the safe-seat equation with powerful leadership posts. ''They're not representative of the state,'' he said.
The fact that Gov.-elect Jay Inslee, a former Democratic congressman, will take office in January having won majorities in only eight liberal counties while losing in the other 31 only bolstered the case for change, said Mr. Sheldon, who said he voted for Mr. Inslee's opponent, Rob McKenna, the state's attorney general and a Republican.
But the Senate's Republicans have not simply gained power with a couple of recruited allies. The plot is thicker than that.
When the session convenes in January, Mr. Sheldon will be elected president pro-tem, the coalition has said -- leader of the chamber when the lieutenant governor, a Democrat, is away. The other Democratic recruit, Senator Rodney Tom, will become majority leader, undertaking to speak for, and presumably direct, an overwhelmingly Republican coalition membership. On paper, the Democrats have a 26-to-23 majority. The coalition, with 25 votes, tips the balance.
''There's something about this whole thing that doesn't make a lot of sense to me,'' said the current majority leader, Senator Ed Murray, a Democrat from Seattle.
There are other wrinkles to ponder, too. Mr. Tom, a real estate agent and a former Republican who represents a district east of Seattle, is, in his own words, fiscally conservative but ''very socially liberal.'' He changed parties six years ago, at least in part, he said, because of the Republican drift to the right on social issues.
He said many Republicans never forgot or forgave. They targeted him for removal in his last election, in 2010, spending more than $800,000 -- a huge amount for a State Senate contest -- in a failed bid to get the seat back.
In the new coalition, as it turns out, the conservative social legislation that Mr. Tom loathes will be off the table, with a relentless focus on what he called, in an interview, the ''bread and butter'' of the budget, job creation and education financing.
''We're not going to turn back the clock and pass any new social legislation,'' he said.
Here in the capital, legislative staff members and senators alike were pondering where they stood, and where they might sit -- office space in the new power-sharing arrangement being one of the unknowns of the holiday season. What seemed increasingly clear, though, is that in the coalition agreement, Mr. Sheldon and Mr. Tom had achieved a kind of coup within a coup, silencing Republican social conservatives on one hand and distancing Seattle Democrats on the other, all in one karate chop.
The Republican floor leader, Senator Mark Schoesler, agreed that the new relationship was complicated.
''All of us have to have trust,'' he said. ''I trust Senator Tom and his word that we're sticking to jobs, education and budgets; he trusts me that I'm not going to go cut a deal and cut his legs out from underneath him.''
The further paradox of the situation, some political experts said, is that in muting social conservatives, coalition Democrats may have ridden to the Republicans' long-term rescue.
''It's probably a good development for the Washington Republican Party if they want to hold power again,'' said Travis N. Ridout, a professor of political science at Washington State University. He said that as Republicans moved to the right on social legislation in recent years -- a pattern reflected across the nation -- their success rates collapsed in Seattle's suburbs where they were once strong. Becoming competitive again statewide, he said, means winning over voters like Mr. Tom, who might be moderate or conservative on economics, but vehemently liberal beyond that.
''It may be masterful,'' Professor Ridout said. ''Or it may be a disaster -- we don't know.''
A spokesman for Governor-elect Inslee said the road ahead was too uncertain to comment. The Senate rules, for one thing, will have to be changed in the opening days of the session, which begins Jan. 14, to allow a majority leader to be elected by the chamber as a whole, rather than in the traditional way by the party having the most R's or D's on its roster.
The coalition has said that Republicans will preside over six influential committees dealing with the budget, labor and economics, education and health care. Democratic Senators will lead six other committees, with three committees to be led jointly.
What happens even further down the road in the next election cycle -- in bridges burned or new trails blazed -- is even more of a guess.
''If I run again, I have no idea how I'm going to get funded,'' Mr. Tom said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members are pictured in the seating chart for the Washington Senate on display at the Capitol in Olympia. Senator Rodney Tom is second from right in the bottom row. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATTHEW RYAN WILLIAMS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (50%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (50%)

PERSON: JAY INSLEE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (95%); OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (99%); WEST USA (92%); NORTHWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



898 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: Dockworkers Prepare to Strike

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Anyone who has seen ''On the Waterfront'' knows East Coast longshoremen can be a tough bunch.
The dockworkers are flexing their muscles again, threatening a strike beginning Sunday that would shut seaports from Massachusetts to Texas. It would be the first such coastwide strike since a two-month walkout in 1977 paralyzed the flow of tens of billions of dollars of imports -- and the nation's retailers and other businesses fear a painful replay if the 14,500 dockworkers make good on their threats.
''Unless something miraculous happens, I think we're looking at a strike,'' said Kevin M. Burke, president of the American Apparel and Footwear Association, which represents an industry that imports $72 billion in dresses, shoes and other goods each year through the East Coast and Gulf Coast ports facing a possible shutdown.
''Our companies are preparing for the worst,'' Mr. Burke said, ''but hoping for the best.'' 
The strike threat has so alarmed corporate America that more than 100 business groups wrote to President Obama last week to urge him to intervene to push the two sides to settle -- and, if need be, to invoke his emergency powers under the 1947 Taft-Hartley Act to bar a strike. President George W. Bush invoked the act in 2002 to end a lockout at ports on the West Coast, where a different union represents dockworkers.
Despite their small numbers, the East Coast dockworkers have outsize influence. Many of them, like the crane operators who transfer containers from ships to the docks, are highly skilled and cannot be easily replaced. And because they control the loading and unloading of goods in most of the nation's ports, a strike could cause extensive economic damage at a time when the economy is already weak.
''They're in a crucial place in the flow of goods,'' said Richard W. Hurd, an industrial relations professor at Cornell University.
The Port Authority of New York and New Jersey estimates that a strike would cost the region $136 million a week in personal income and $110 million in economic output.
The dockworkers union, the International Longshoremen's Association, opposes presidential intervention, and labor specialists say Mr. Obama, like previous union-friendly Democrats, may be reluctant to enjoin a strike. On the other hand, the economy already faces a potential blow from tax increases and federal budget cuts scheduled to begin on Jan. 1, and a strike would cause further damage.
''The last thing the nation needs right now is a strike that would shut down the East Coast and Gulf Coast ports,'' said Jonathan Gold, the National Retail Federation's vice president for supply chain policy. ''This will have a huge ripple effect throughout the economy.''
The 14 ports threatened with a strike -- including Boston; New York-New Jersey; Baltimore; Charleston, S.C.; Savannah, Ga.; Miami; and Houston -- handled 110 million tons of cargo last year.
The contract negotiations, which have continued fitfully for nine months, broke off on Dec. 18. At the behest of a federal mediator, the two sides are planning to resume talks this week to try to reach a deal before the deadline of 12:01 a.m. Sunday.
Although several issues need to be resolved, the two sides are deadlocked over one point in particular. The United States Maritime Alliance, an association of shipping companies and terminal owners, is demanding concessions on ''container royalty payments,'' which the companies share with union members for each ton of cargo handled. The companies want to freeze those payments for current longshoremen and eliminate them for future hires.
The maritime alliance, known as USMX, says it paid $211 million in container royalties to the longshoremen last year, averaging $15,500 per eligible worker. James A. Capo, the alliance's chairman, said that came to $10 an hour, on top of what he said were already generous wages.
''This issue seems to have dwarfed anything else,'' Mr. Capo said. ''All it does is make the union more uncompetitive than it already is.''
The alliance says that, including the royalties, the longshoremen earn $124,000 a year on average in wages and benefits. Union officials say those figures are misleading and put average annual wages at $75,000 before benefits -- still far more than most union members earn.
The container payments were created in the 1960s to compensate the longshoremen as ports embraced automation and the use of standardized, 40-foot-long containers to ship goods. That caused a big decrease in jobs and working hours. Employment of longshoremen in the Port of New York and New Jersey has dropped to 3,500 from 35,000 in the 1960s.
The shipping companies see the royalty payments as a relic of decades past, while the union still sees them as a core part of wages and as an important way to share productivity gains with members.
The dockworkers union is digging in on the issue.
''We have repeatedly asked them to leave this item alone,'' said Harold J. Daggett, the union's president.
Last week, a federal mediator asked the two sides to extend their contract until Feb. 1. But Mr. Daggett ruled out an extension unless USMX dropped its demands on the royalty payments.
The union has also complained about other demands the alliance is making for a proposed six-year contract, including delayed contributions to the union's health care fund and annual raises that are below inflation.
Notwithstanding its historical reputation, Mr. Daggett's union has grown tamer since its 1977 walkout. Federal prosecutors have cleaned out much of the organized crime influence in a union long considered one of the most mob-infested. But after decades of labor peace, the elements for a huge confrontation are in place. Mr. Daggett vowed to stand up to employers when he took the union's helm last year.
At the same time, the maritime alliance is taking its toughest bargaining stance in years. It sees an important opportunity for increased business in East Coast ports now that the Panama Canal is being widened. The alliance says high labor costs will hurt East Coast ports when Asian companies like Toyota and Samsung are deciding which coast to use for deliveries.
Mr. Capo also voiced fears of losing business to less expensive East Coast ports like Jacksonville, Fla.
''The I.L.A. faces some tremendous nonunion, non-I.L.A. competition, particularly in the South and the gulf,'' he said. ''With these kinds of wages, they can't survive in an open market.''
Dorothy Sue Cobble, a labor relations professor at Rutgers, said the maritime alliance's push to cut labor costs was an example of increased assertiveness among employers at a time when unemployment remains high and many unions are struggling.
''A lot of employers feel it's a good time to demand and receive givebacks,'' she said.
East Coast and West Coast dockworkers have separate unions. The West Coast association, the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, is known for being leftist and active in politics. It supported the Occupy Wall Street movement, and on Nov. 27, the union's clerical workers, worried that some jobs were being outsourced, began an eight-day strike that crippled the nation's two busiest ports, Los Angeles and Long Beach, Calif.
Business groups said the 11-day lockout that closed 29 West Coast ports in 2002 cost the nation's economy $1 billion a day until President Bush invoked the Taft-Hartley Act and ordered the ports reopened.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Seaports from Massachusetts to Texas, like Port Newark, will shut down on Sunday if longshoremen walk out. (B1)
 Traffic backed up Wednesday at Port Newark as shipping companies anticipated a strike by East Coast longshoremen. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LIBRADO ROMERO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (91%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); LOCKOUTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); FOOTWEAR (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); RETAILERS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); STRIKES (73%); PORT AUTHORITIES (72%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); BUDGET CUTS (50%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (63%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (63%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (85%) NEW JERSEY, USA (85%); WEST USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



899 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: The S.E.C. at a Turning Point

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Neil Barofsky's track record and unimpeachable integrity make him the ideal choice to oversee enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
The job of head of enforcement at the Securities and Exchange Commission is now open. The Obama administration should press for the appointment of Neil Barofsky, former special inspector general for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, to this position. Unfortunately, the administration has given no indication it will do so, leaving the impression that it is likely to be business as usual for the next four years, with regulators who are less than tough on the industry. 
(I have also endorsed Mr. Barofsky as a chairman of the S.E.C.; clearly, I want him at the commission one way or another.)
The departing director of the division of enforcement at the S.E.C. is Robert Khuzami, a former general counsel for the Americas at Deutsche Bank, a job he held from 2004 through early 2009. Although Mr. Khuzami was once a distinguished prosecutor, his appointment to the S.E.C. turned out to be a mistake because Deutsche Bank was so deeply involved in the securitization morass that led to the financial crisis of 2008. 
(For more details, I recommend this Web page, with information collated by UniteHere, a trade union. You should also read this assessment by Yves Smith on her nakedcapitalism blog.)
Mr. Khuzami has vigorously defended his record and insisted it would have been "unwise" to press Wall Street firms and their executives for admissions of guilt. Whether the S.E.C. failed to prosecute the executives who made the key decisions because it had no case or because of Mr. Khuzami's views, we may never know.

In addition, concerns continue to grow regarding the extent of mismanagement and illegal activity at Deutsche Bank during Mr. Khuzami's time there; Mr. Khuzami has recused himself from the latest S.E.C. investigations.
According to Jordan Thomas, a lawyer representing one of the whistleblowers from Deutsche Bank, as quoted in the Financial Times, 
During the financial crisis, many financial institutions faced an existential threat and the evidence suggests that Deutsche Bank crossed the line by substantially inflating the value of its credit derivatives portfolio - the largest risk area in its trading book.
This is precisely the kind of complex case that requires a skilled prosecutor with detailed knowledge of how the industry works. At the same time, it cannot be someone who has worked for a major financial institution either directly or as its outside counsel. The potential for a perceived conflict of interest is too great. 
In the past, we would have looked to the United States Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York for the right kind of talent. But in the last few years this office has focused much more on insider-trading cases, with much of its evidence collected through wiretaps. The human capital that is capable of directly prosecuting and winning complicated securities fraud cases is much depleted.
Fortunately, Mr. Barofsky is at hand and is an excellent choice for head of enforcement at the S.E.C. (though surely not the only one so qualified). A career prosecutor who worked for the United States Attorney's Office in a previous era (through 2008), Mr. Barofsky successfully pursued mortgage fraud cases and complex securities fraud and accounting fraud cases, including against the most senior executives of the former commodities giant Refco. He also worked on drug-trafficking cases, going up against some of the most dangerous criminals in the world.
In the fall of 2008, Mr. Barofsky, a Democrat, was nominated by the Bush administration to become the independent lawyer inside the Treasury Department (special inspector general, in Washington parlance) responsible for supervising the implementation of the divisive Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP. He was confirmed with bipartisan support and continued to enjoy such support until he stepped down in early 2011.
At TARP, Mr. Barofsky investigated and studied carefully almost every corner of the financial system, with the goal of preventing fraud and abuse in the use of taxpayer money. He prosecuted people who broke the rules and who were trying to steal from the government (and from you).
Remarkably, Mr. Barofsky had to contend with initial resistance from the Treasury team led by the secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr. The extent and sophistication of resistance to Mr. Barofsky's sensible compliance recommendations increased dramatically once Timothy F. Geithner was confirmed as Treasury secretary. 
The Treasury philosophy was that all of its financial stability policies were intended to "foam the runway" for banks - making it easier for them to earn their way out of the crisis. The Obama administration's much-hyped mortgage-modification program, for example, was designed and implemented in ways that were always going to be harmful to many homeowners, a point that Mr. Barofsky and his team made before, during and after this became painfully evident to the rest of us.
Mr. Barofsky understands the details and knows how to build an office that combines effectiveness and integrity with its own investigative capability. His reports will long stand out as beacons of clarity. (The TARP special inspector general reports are on the Web; the Barofsky reports are from February 2009 through January 2011.)
Another advantage to Mr. Barofsky's appointment is that we would not have to fear that he would later rotate into a senior position on Wall Street. As he made abundantly clear in "Bailout: An Inside Account of How Washington Abandoned Main Street While Rescuing Wall Street," Mr. Barofsky has burned all those bridges already. 
We need an honest and experienced prosecutor to oversee enforcement at the S.E.C. This person must be beyond reproach and able to tackle wrongdoers, no matter how powerful their political connections or how complicated their cover story. 
Fortunately, we have Mr. Barofsky. It is no time for business as usual at the S.E.C.; it sorely needs an effective head of enforcement.

        
Mary Miller vs. Neil Barofsky for the S.E.C.
        
Dropping the Ball on Financial Regulation
        
Read This Book, Win the Election
        
Money, Power and the Rule of Law
        
Why Does Wall Street Always Win?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); LAWYERS (87%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (79%); WRITERS (78%); SECURITIZATION (77%); CREDIT CRISIS (77%); DEREGULATION (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (67%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (66%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (65%) Daily Economist; financial crisis; financial regulation; Great Recession; Henry Paulson; regulatory capture; Simon Johnson; TARP; Timothy Geithner; Barofsky, Neil M; Khuzami, Robert S; Inspectors General; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Securities and Commodities Violations; Deutsche Bank AG; Securities and Exchange Commission; Treasury Department; Deutsche Bank AG|DB|NYSE; Today's Economist

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (83%); FINANCIAL TIMES GROUP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (97%) Deutsche Bank AG; Securities and Exchange Commission; Treasury Department

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (83%); DBK (FRA) (83%); DBK (BIT) (83%); DBETN (JSE) (83%); DBA (ASX) (83%); DB (NYSE) (83%) Deutsche Bank AG; DB; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (83%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); HENRY PAULSON (57%) Barofsky, Neil M; Khuzami, Robert S

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



900 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 410 words

HEADLINE: Bank C.E.O.'s on Thinning Ice

BYLINE: DOMINIC ELLIOTT and ANTONY CURRIE


HIGHLIGHT: At least one of the three big bank chief executives to survive the financial crisis could be without a job by the end of 2013, the authors contend. 

 BODY:
At least one of the three big bank chief executives to survive the financial crisis could be without a job by the end of 2013. 
Goldman Sachs's Lloyd Blankfein, JPMorgan Chase's Jamie Dimon and Brady Dougan at Credit Suisse have each suffered setbacks in the past year or more. The two U.S.-based bosses have done a better job of shrugging those off. But Mr. Dougan looks vulnerable. 
Holding on to the top role at a bank during the financial crisis has required guts and skill. The survivors' club halved in size in 2012: Deutsche Bank's Joseph Ackermann, Citigroup's Vikram Pandit and Robert Diamond at Barclays all left their banks - though for very different reasons.
Mr. Blankfein has weathered almost three years as the lightning rod for criticism of Wall Street's role in the crisis and of its excessive pay. He's not out of the woods: Goldman's return on equity for the first nine months of the year was a disappointing 8.8 percent. But for now, calls for his head have all but ceased.
Mr. Dimon, meanwhile, was knocked in 2012 by some disastrous trades that stripped shareholders of $6 billion of revenue. This blow to his reputation as a prudent risk manager forced him to reshuffle his executive team, putting two of them in the race to succeed him. But for now he has a good hold on the reins of a firm that still cranked out an 11 percent return on equity in the first three quarters.
Across the Atlantic, Mr. Dougan's summer flip-flop over whether to raise the capital deemed necessary by the Swiss central bank made him look weak and may have strained relations with the regulator. And UBS's October decision to quit most fixed-income trading called his strategy of sticking with the business into question. His rival's shares soared by a fifth.
Some major shareholders still support Mr. Dougan. And he has no obvious successor. But investor support can be fickle. And unlike his two American counterparts, Mr. Dougan does not hold the chairmanship. Citi showed in October how effective that role could be when Chairman Michael O'Neill ousted Mr. Pandit. None of the three crisis survivors should feel too secure in the corner office. But Mr. Dougan has the most to worry about.
 Dominic Elliott is a columnist and Antony Currie is an associate editor at Reuters Breakingviews. For more independent commentary and analysis, visit breakingviews.com. 

        
Wall Street Stocks Slump in Wake of Obama's Win
        
Reading the Fine Print in Abacus and Other Soured Deals

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); EXECUTIVES (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); WRITERS (84%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (72%) Barclays PLC; Blankfein, Lloyd C; Citigroup Inc; Credit Suisse Group AG; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Dimon, James; Dougan, Brady W; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Pandit, Vikram S; Barclays PLC|BCS|NYSE; Citigroup Inc|C|NYSE; Credit Suisse Group AG|CS|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Breakingviews; Financial Services; Investment Banking

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (93%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (90%)

ORGANIZATION: Barclays PLC; Citigroup Inc; Credit Suisse Group AG; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (93%); JPM (LSE) (93%); 8634 (TSE) (93%); GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); DEUT (JSE) (90%); DBK (FRA) (90%); DBK (BIT) (90%); DBETN (JSE) (90%); DBA (ASX) (90%); DB (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (90%); CS (NYSE) (90%) Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group AG; CS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group AG; CS; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Barclays PLC; BCS; NYSE; Citigroup Inc; C; NYSE; Credit Suisse Group AG; CS; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (93%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (90%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (90%)

PERSON: LLOYD BLANKFEIN (90%); JAMES DIMON (90%); VIKRAM PANDIT (89%) Blankfein, Lloyd C; Diamond, Robert E Jr; Dimon, James; Dougan, Brady W; Pandit, Vikram S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



901 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 492 words

HEADLINE: Strong Sales for 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' With Scarlett Johansson

BYLINE: PATRICK HEALY


HIGHLIGHT: The production of "Cat," along with the Broadway revival of "Glengarry Glen Ross" (starring Al Pacino), were the highest-earning plays in a pre-Christmas week that is almost always dominated by musicals. 

 BODY:
The Scarlett Johansson-led revival of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" is off to a strong start on Broadway, grossing $843,215 for its first seven preview performances last week - more money than any of the last three Broadway revivals of the play made in a single week, even after adjusting for inflation. Those revivals starred Anika Noni Rose (in 2008), Ashley Judd (2003) and Kathleen Turner (1990) in the role of Maggie, which Ms. Johansson is playing in the new production, whose box-office sales have benefited from the advent of premium ticket pricing of up to $175 a seat last week. 
The production of "Cat," along with the Broadway revival of "Glengarry Glen Ross" (starring Al Pacino), were the highest-earning plays in a pre-Christmas week that is almost always dominated by musicals.
According to box-office data released on Wednesday by the Broadway League, a trade association of theater owners and producers, the Disney musical "The Lion King" set a box-office record at the Minskoff Theater for an eight performance-week, grossing $2,129,609. "Wicked" was a close second with $2.1 million, followed by "The Book of Mormon" at $1.68 million. The musical "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark" showed softening at the box office, grossing $1.47 million (compared to $1.76 million for the same week last December). And ticket sales for the revival of "Evita" weakened further as its run nears an end next month, grossing $774,870 last week, about $35,000 less than the previous week.
A new holiday show, "A Christmas Story," continued to sell well, grossing $1.49 million and setting a record at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater for a nine-performance week; most other musicals held the standard eight performances. 
Several plays featuring well-known actors have been selling modestly or poorly this fall, and that trend persisted last week in spite of the tourist surge in New York City.
"Dead Accounts," a dark family comedy starring Katie Holmes and two-time Tony Award winner Norbert Leo Butz, took in $243,154 (or only 25 percent of its maximum possible gross). "Grace," with Paul Rudd and Michael Shannon, grossed $284,889 (or 31 percent of the maximum possible amount). Also struggling at the box office were two plays that, like "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," are still in preview performances and have yet to be reviewed: "Picnic," starring Maggie Grace and Ellen Burstyn, had the lowest gross of the week with $149,300, followed by "The Other Place" (starring Laurie Metcalf) with $149,652.
Over all, Broadway musicals and plays grossed $25.85 million last week, compared to $23.5 million the previous week and $23.3 million for the same week last year.

        
'Cat' Revival With Scarlett Johansson Is Set, With Benjamin Walker as Brick
        
'Glengarry' Revival, With Pacino and Cannavale, Recoups on Broadway
        
Theater Talkback: A Hot Ticket on Broadway, and a Cold Shoulder to Reviewers
        
'Glengarry Glen Ross' Off to a Hot Start at the Box Office
        
Theater Talkback: Hold the Applause

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); TICKET SALES (91%); CHRISTMAS (90%); THEATER (90%); MUSICAL THEATER (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); MOVIE THEATERS (75%); TRENDS (74%); RELIGION (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); MUSIC (68%) Cat on a Hot Tin Roof (Play); Glengarry Glen Ross (Play); Johansson, Scarlett; Theater

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (92%); KATIE HOLMES (56%) Johansson, Scarlett

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



902 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: City Agency Warns of Local Fiscal Problems Ahead

BYLINE: SAM ROBERTS


HIGHLIGHT: Manageable gaps between expenses and revenues are projected, the Independent Budget Office said, but those figures do not reflect the uncertain costs of labor contracts and of Hurricane Sandy recovery. 

 BODY:
Whatever happens in Washington as the deadline for a fiscal deal approaches, New York City is facing some daunting financial topography of its own in the coming year and beyond, the city's Independent Budget Office warned on Thursday. 
While manageable budget gaps are projected, the budget office says, those gaps fail to account for two major variables: the costs of labor contracts and of the Hurricane Sandy recovery.
"There is little money set aside in the budget for contract settlements covering years prior to 2013, and the mayor's assertion that any wage increases covering those years would have to be paid for by productivity is impractical," according to the budget office's latest fiscal outlook. "This stance may well be untenable for the next mayor."
Assuming that workers whose contracts expired in the 2010 fiscal year or later settled for annual compounding raises of 2 percent for the next two contract years and that teachers conform to the established pattern of two compounded raises of 4 percent, the cost to the city would be an additional $3.8 billion through next June alone - not counting more pension contributions and related expenses.
Regarding Hurricane Sandy, the budget report says, "The possibility that the city will indeed have to shoulder some of the cleanup and recovery costs - as well as expenditures to mitigate devastation from future storms - remains very real." Also, the storm's long-term impact on the local economy is uncertain.
Substantial cuts to libraries and after-school programs are forecast, as are the shrinking by attrition of 395 Correction Department jobs next year and, in 2014, the elimination of vision screening for kindergarten students.
Among sources of new revenue, the analysis says, the city's Transportation Department expects to raise $6.8 million from 428 new multi-space parking meters in Lower Manhattan and an additional $4.8 million in 2014 by increasing parking meter rates south of 96th Street to $3.50 an hour, up 50 cents.
"Over the past few years the city has weathered a number of diverse challenges, from the economic storm of the deepest national recession since the 1930s to the post-Christmas blizzard that knocked out much of the city's transportation routes for days to the most recent superstorm," the budget report concludes. "The fiscal difficulties that lay ahead for the next mayor and City Council may be more prosaic than a historic recession or mammoth storms, but the potential challenges remain no less real."

        
The 47 Percent Here? Far Fewer Escape City's Income Tax
        
To the City's Top 1%, a Third of the Income
        
Hey, City Hall, Here's How You Can Balance Your Books
        
Average New Yorker Produces Over 2 Pounds of Garbage Per Day
        
The 1 Percent? That's So 2011. It's the 6 Percent You Should Be Worried About.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CITIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET FORECASTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (64%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (64%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (50%) Independent Budget Office

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



903 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 1108 words

HEADLINE: In Bronx Gym, Man Who Went Astray Leads Youths on Straight Path

BYLINE: VINCENT M. MALLOZZI


HIGHLIGHT: Fernando Laspina, who opened a cultural center and boxing gym, has become a hero on the same South Bronx streets he once terrorized as a gang leader. 

 BODY:
On a recent night in the South Bronx, Fernando Laspina peeked out the front window of El Maestro and Juan Laporte's Boxing Gym and saw a cold, steady rain falling on the dimly lighted, rugged streets of his troubled youth.
"When I was teenager back in the early 1970s, I used to run around like crazy all along Southern Boulevard out here," said Mr. Laspina, shaking his head. "I was a leader of a street gang called the Savage Skulls. I was young and very foolish at that time, and I paid for it by going to jail."
Mr. Laspina, now 57, took a step back from the window and captured a much brighter scene in its dusty reflection: dozens of young men scattered in and around a tattered boxing ring, sparring, jabbing at speed bags and jumping rope. 
"This is my dream come true," said Mr. Laspina, turning toward the stable of young boxers with a proud smile. "By keeping busy in here, they are not out there getting into the kind of trouble I got myself into when I was a kid. To have a place like this has been a goal of mine since I got out of prison, a promise I am still keeping to my mother." 
Mr. Laspina, who juggles his role as the executive director of El Maestro with his day job as an afterschool coordinator for the New York City Housing Authority, is now hailed as a hero on the same streets he once terrorized. 
"I've known Fernando since the mid-1970s," said Ramon Jimenez, a lawyer and political activist who lives in the neighborhood. "In the 40-plus years I've spent in the South Bronx, I've met many politicians and many famous people, but I've never met anyone with the dedication, commitment and endless energy and refusal to be defeated like Fernando 'Ponce' Laspina - his story stands above the rest." 
Mr. Laspina, one of 18 children born in Ponce, P.R. - "that's where I got my nickname," he said - was 15 years old when he and his family settled into the area, which was already crawling with street gangs. 
"I couldn't speak English and I had some trouble fitting in," he said. "Before you knew it, I was getting jumped and guys were robbing what little money I had. I actually joined a gang to help protect myself."
His mother urged him to leave the Savage Skulls, and Mr. Laspina, who by then was pretty good with his fists, tried obliging her in October 1973, when he signed up to join a boxing organization run by the Police Athletic League. Later that same week, he was arrested for extortion and sent to Rikers Island.
Under the headline "5 in Bronx Youth Gangs Indicted in Merchant 'Protection' Racket,"an article in The New York Times published on Oct. 19, 1973, began, "Scores of shopkeepers in the South Bronx have been terrorized by street gangs into paying 'protection' money to escape beatings, arson and robbery." The article named all five who were indicted, including, Mr. Laspina, who was 18.
"My mother was crushed, and it really hurt me to let her down like that," he said. "That's when I promised her I would never let her down again and that when my legal troubles were behind me, I was going to turn my life around."
After spending nearly a year on Rikers Island, Mr. Laspina was freed on bail while awaiting trial. After a conviction and much legal wrangling, he served another year at the Elmira Correctional Facility in Elmira, N.Y., starting in 1975. While in prison, he earned a general equivalency diploma.
Shortly after his release, Mr. Laspina joined Mr. Jimenez and a band of students and faculty members in a successful challenge to plans to shut Hostos Community College or merge it into another institution during the city's fiscal crisis.
"It was the only bilingual college in the area and it was on the brink of closing down," Mr. Laspina said. 
He soon enrolled at Hostos, where he received an associate degree. He went on to Lehman College, where he received a bachelor of arts degree, and then to Buffalo State University, where he earned a master's in Latin American studies. 
In 1987, he returned to Hostos and began a 10-year stretch as an adjunct lecturer in Latin American and Caribbean studies. In 1997, he began working in the Bronx for the Housing Authority, counseling on and teaching a variety of subjects to students from first grade through high school.
In 2003, Mr. Laspina founded his dream organization, which is run by volunteers.
"My mom lived long enough to see it," said Mr. Laspina, whose mother died in 2007. "She lived long enough to see me turn my life around and fulfill that promise." 
El Maestro has been at its current location, 1300 Southern Boulevard, next to an abandoned lot, for two years, having moved, Mr. Laspina said, because he could no longer afford the almost $4,500 a month in rent for the old site. He now pays $3,000 a month, some of which comes out of his own pocket. 
The organization's two main missions - it serves as both a cultural center and a training center - are spelled out on each side of the long, red awning above the front door. The south side of the awning, which reads "El Maestro Inc.," is a center of Puerto Rican culture and heritage named for Pedro Albizu Campos, the deceased Puerto Rican nationalist leader who was known as El Maestro (The Teacher).
The north side of the awning, which reads "Juan Laporte's Boxing Gym," is named for the former featherweight champion who was born in Guayama, P.R., and is a friend of Mr. Laspina's.
Julio Pabon, a South Bronx activist and a local businessman who ran with a street gang named the Young Lords in the 1970s, called Mr. Laspina "a good example of what the Bronx has to offer."
"Most of my friends and Ponce's friends are either dead or in jail," Mr. Pabon said. "Ponce didn't just survive; he is now helping other people survive.
"In the South Bronx, our schools are not the best and our role models are few and distant. We have a very high unemployment rate, one of the highest obesity rates in the country, violent crime and inadequate housing, so the deck is stacked against any young person here who is trying to make something of their life.
"Without Ponce, I can't imagine where these kids would be today."
Mr. Pabon was talking about children like Jeffrey Cuadras, an 11-year-old from the neighborhood who is learning how to box.
"I like coming here because I feel safe," said Jeffrey, lacing up a pair of gloves as he peeked out the front window of the gym. "There's nothing out there but robbers and drug dealers, and I don't want to end up like that." 

        
A Puerto Rican Poet's Fight With Alzheimer's
        
Papers of a Puerto Rican Poet Will Find a Home at Columbia
        
Jack Dempsey vs. Rocky Graziano
        
Taking Off Badges and Lacing Up Gloves to Settle a Score
        
Flags Confused in Ad for Puerto Rican Day Parade

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); GANGS (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (74%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXTORTION (60%); ARRESTS (60%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (50%) Boxing; Hispanic-Americans; Puerto Ricans; Bronx (NYC); Bronx; People & Neighborhoods

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PUERTO RICO (79%) Bronx (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



904 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1488 words

HEADLINE: The Short Life of the Camel Corps

BYLINE: KENNETH WEISBRODE


HIGHLIGHT: The strange story of one of the Civil War's lesser-known innovations. 

 BODY:
The Civil War featured countless dazzling innovations: ironclads, hot-air balloons, the Gatling gun. But if armored warships and machine guns pointed to the future of warfare, another innovation, hailed at the time as a forerunner of combat to come, certainly did not: the Union Army's Camel Corps.
In 1836 an army officer from Georgia, George Crosman, first touted the idea of importing camels to the United States. The animals were perfect for making the long, grueling treks then being mapped out across the country. Still, not much came of the idea until about 15 years later when, thanks to some publicists like the well-known diplomat and writer George Perkins Marsh, the "Camel Transportation Company" was formed to operate a camel express between Texas and California and down to Panama, later to be called the "Dromedary Line." It wasn't alone: there was also an American Camel Company. 
Both companies soon failed, but the idea had taken hold. Among its adherents was Jefferson Davis, the secretary of war under Franklin Pierce. A native of Mississippi, Davis was interested in the integration and development of the Southwest, perhaps with an eye toward expanding the Southern economy - and the slave system it relied on - toward the Pacific. But he and others struggled to find ways to overcome what in pre-railroad days was called the "tyranny of distance." Davis's belief that camels could be the solution was affirmed by a retired naval officer named Edward Beale, who had become something of a zealot on the subject of camels after reading about them in the French missionary Évariste R. Huc's "Recollections of a journey through Tartary, Thibet and China, during the years 1844, 1845 and 1846," a famous account of travels around Central Asia. In 1855 Davis had a ship outfitted and sent to North Africa and the Levant to purchase several camels "for army transportation and for other military purposes."
Overseeing the project for Davis was Maj. Henry Wayne, another camel advocate, who argued that the animals could have direct military uses in "speedy communication," and even as cavalry. He speculated that "Americans will be able to manage camels not only as well, but better than Arabs, as they will do it with more humanity and with far greater intelligence." Moreover, he added, the project would be "a legacy to posterity, of precisely the same character as the introduction of the horse and other domestic animals by the early settlers of America."
Joining Wayne on the voyage were his young son and Lt. David Porter, a naval officer and relative of Beale. Porter was also the brother-in-law of another camel enthusiast, the explorer and illustrator Gwinn Harris Heap, whose own father had been the American consul in Tunis. Together they formed a small but vocal American camel lobby.
The men sailed to Europe, where they stopped along the way to ask advice from experienced camel owners, including the grand duke of Tuscany, who had several on his estate. They also met zoological experts and scientists in England and France, some of whom discouraged them, partly on environmental grounds but also on financial ones, as the Crimean War had driven up the price of camels. But they proceeded onward after leaving Wayne's son behind in a French school, where he remained for three years before seeing his father again. 
They traveled on to Tunis, Malta, Smyrna, Constantinople and Alexandria. They returned to Texas with about three dozen animals, including several Arabian (dromedary) and Bactrian camels, a "Tunis camel" and a Tulu, which was a mix of Bactrian and Arabian. A second trip, in 1856, resulted in another four dozen, as well as some camel handlers, Wayne's prediction about Americans' facility with the animals having proved too optimistic. (Among the handlers were two men who would become well-known figures around postwar Arizona and California: the Syrian Hadji Ali, a colorful, moderately successful businessman better known to Americans as "Hi Jolly"; and George Caralambo, a similarly colorful rancher who was renowned as "Greek George.")
The romance of camel-borne transportation took hold of the government's imagination in the late 1850s. Beale imported more dromedaries to California in 1857, and in 1860 some three dozen Bactrian camels were brought from Mongolia by a German entrepreneur, Otto Esche, also to California. Davis's successor, the Virginian John Floyd, was even more of a camel enthusiast, and he ordered a thousand camels to be bought and outfitted. 
The camels began to prove their worth as pack animals. These "ships of the desert" could carry upwards of 300 pounds and could travel up to four miles an hour with few stops (certainly fewer than horses). They carried salt, dry goods and even the mail between Tucson and Los Angeles. Not only did they appear to be more economical than horses or mules, but also more self-sufficient: they ate Texas mountain cedar and creosote brush, plentiful plants that other pack animals wouldn't go near.
Camels also had disadvantages. They were known, with justification, for terrible tempers. Horses were prone to panic around them - a fact that the camel lobby tried to spin, arguing that marauding Indians would be less likely to attack their caravans as a result. But this did little to persuade soldiers, who wanted little to do with them. This included the man in command of Texas and therefore of most of the camels, Gen. David Twiggs. Twiggs' views were clear: "I prefer mules for packing."
On Feb. 28, 1861, Confederate forces took over Camp Verde, Tex., where many of the camels were based. With the lines to the Pacific suddenly cut and the impending war clouds concentrated in the East, nobody knew what to do with the animals. Commanders used them to give rides to local children. Some camels in Arkansas were taken by Federal troops, who sent them on to Iowa and then proposed that they be auctioned. Elsewhere Confederate soldiers pushed a camel off a cliff because they thought it was a nuisance. "They were like a wart on a stick. We had them and couldn't get rid of them," said one. 
Beale did not give up. He wrote to the new Union secretary of war, Edwin M. Stanton, about devising new roles for the camels, but Stanton never replied. Eventually some were sold to the Ringling Brothers Circus. Others were made into jerky. Many were simply allowed to wander. In 1869 the first transcontinental railroad put an end to the "tyranny of distance" - and the need for camels.
A few of the camel handlers stayed on. Greek George changed his name to George Allen, got married and lived in what is now Hollywood. There were many rumors about his fate - that he had been killed by Apaches, or that he had committed suicide to avoid capture for a murder. In fact he died peacefully at Mission Viejo in 1913, at the age of 84.
Hi Jolly became a citizen around 1880 and became known as Philip Tedro. Like Greek George, he spoke better Spanish than English. He married in Tucson and had two daughters, Amelia and Herminia, and lived until 1902. Three decades later the state of Arizona built a monument to him: a stone pyramid with a camel on top.
As for the camels, there were sightings of their descendants throughout the Southwest until the middle of the 20th century. 
Despite their exotic nature, the camels did prove useful and, even with the coming of the railroads, might have served a supporting role in the settlement of the American West. So why did the Camel Corps fail? Part of it was due to the inability of the lobbyists, who saw the camels' advantages in theory, to convince soldiers to overlook the many disadvantages that they saw in fact. But other innovations were successfully forced on military men. The camels, however, had the added misfortune of having Jefferson Davis as their lead advocate. 
Still, why didn't the South make more use of the camels? Davis surely had other things on his mind during the war, and his commanders evidently failed to share his enthusiasm for the project. More decisive may have been the fact that so much of the war took place east of the Mississippi. The camels languished in the West. 
We are left to wonder. What if the war had been fought differently? Would the camels have made a fine American cavalry? Would they have one day become as ubiquitous a symbol of the Wild West as the horse and cowboy? 
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: C.F. Eckhardt, "Charley Eckhardt's Texas," Texas Escapes, June 1, 2007; Odie B. Faulk, "The U.S. Camel Corps: An Army Experiment"; Harlan D. Fowler, "Camels to California" and "Three Caravans to Yuma: The Untold Story of Bactrian Camels in Western America." 
 Kenneth Weisbrode is a writer and historian. His latest book is "The Atlantic Century." 

        
Robert Gould Shaw's Gruesome Task
        
The Fighting Second
        
Colonel Wilder's Lightning Brigade
        
The Adventures of Lightning Ellsworth
        
Van Dorn's Wild Ride

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ARMIES (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); MAMMALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NAVIES (89%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); ANIMALS (76%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (69%); WRITERS (69%) Camels; union army; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



905 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 365 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Dec. 27

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: The world's longest high-speed rail line; a new setback for Assad in Syria; Italy's refugee paradox; the mother-in-law and the Indian soap opera, and Amsterdam's bathtub-shaped museum. 

 BODY:
 NEWS China began service Wednesday morning on the world's longest high-speed rail line, from Beijing to Guangzhou - covering a distance in eight hours that is about equal to that from New York to Key West, Florida, or from London across Europe to Belgrade, Serbia. Keith Bradsher reports from Hong Kong. 
Syria's embattled leadership suffered a new setback Wednesday with the defection of its military police chief, the highest-ranking officer to abandon President Bashar al-Assad since the uprising against him began nearly two years ago. Kareem Fahim and Rick Gladstone report.
On the outskirts of Rome is an abandoned building colloquially known as the Salaam Palace, once a sparsely populated shelter where new arrivals from Africa squatted to create their own refuge. Today more than 800 refugees live there, a vivid reminder of what many say is Italy's failure to assist and integrate those who have qualified for asylum under its laws. Elisabetta Povoledo reports from Rome.
Japan's Parliament formally chose the nationalist ex-prime minister Shinzo Abe to lead the country again, ending a three-year break from decades of near-constant rule by his conservative Liberal Democratic Party. Martin Fackler reports from Tokyo.
 ARTS On Indian television, mothers-in-law are not a joke - they're the law. In soap operas as in life, the extended family is still the bedrock of Indian society, where modernization meets its match. Alessandra Stanley reports from Mumbai.
The new Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam - shaped like a bathtub, of all things - arrives years behind schedule at the tail end of the money-fueled, headline-hungry, erratically ingenious era of indulgent museum design that began to peter out with the global economy. Why a tub? That, says Michael Kimmelman, is the $170 million (well over budget) question. 
 SPORTS The resurgence of German soccer began, like the country's economic comeback, after a long slide toward stagnation amid dire prophecies of impending irrelevance. Since then Germany has invested nearly $1 billion in its youth soccer programs, and the products of the new factory system were exhibited in striking fashion this season. Nicholas Kulish reports.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (87%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (76%); POLICE FORCES (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); FAMILY (70%); BUDGETS (69%); CONSERVATISM (66%); LIBERALISM (66%); SOCCER (62%); YOUTH SPORTS (62%); ARMED FORCES (56%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (50%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (71%); SHINZO ABE (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMSTERDAM, NETHERLANDS (93%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (92%); KEY WEST, FL, USA (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%); GUANGZHOU, CHINA (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (69%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (73%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (73%); SOUTH CHINA (73%) SYRIA (94%); NETHERLANDS (93%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); SERBIA (92%); GERMANY (92%); HONG KONG (92%); ITALY (91%); INDIA (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); JAPAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



906 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(FiveThirtyEight)

PUB-DATE: December 27, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 2093 words

HEADLINE: As Swing Districts Dwindle, Can a Divided House Stand?

BYLINE: NATE SILVER


HIGHLIGHT: Most members of the House of Representatives come from hyperpartisan districts where they face essentially no threat of losing their seat to the other party - and have little incentive to work across party lines. 

 BODY:
In 1992, there were 103 members of the House of Representatives elected from what might be called swing districts: those in which the margin in the presidential race was within five percentage points of the national result. But based on an analysis of this year's presidential returns, I estimate that there are only 35 such Congressional districts remaining, barely a third of the total 20 years ago.
Instead, the number of landslide districts - those in which the presidential vote margin deviated by at least 20 percentage points from the national result - has roughly doubled. In 1992, there were 123 such districts (65 of them strongly Democratic and 58 strongly Republican). Today, there are 242 of them (of these, 117 favor Democrats and 125 Republicans).
So why is compromise so hard in the House? Some commentators, especially liberals, attribute it to what they say is the irrationality of Republican members of Congress. 
But the answer could be this instead: individual members of Congress are responding fairly rationally to their incentives. Most members of the House now come from hyperpartisan districts where they face essentially no threat of losing their seat to the other party. Instead, primary challenges, especially for Republicans, may be the more serious risk.
In the chart below, I've grouped the country's Congressional districts into seven categories based on the results of presidential voting there from 1992 through 2012:
 Landslide Democratic districts are those in which the presidential vote was at least 20 points more Democratic than in the country as a whole. (For example in 2008, when the Democrat Barack Obama won the popular vote by roughly seven percentage points nationwide, these districts were those in which Mr. Obama won by 27 percentage points or more.)
 Strong Democratic districts are 10 to 20 percentage points more Democratic than the country as a whole.
 Lean Democratic districts are 5 to 10 percentage points more Democratic than the country as a whole.
 Swing districts are within five percentage points of the national popular vote margin.
 Lean Republican districts are 5 to 10 percentage points more Republican than the country as a whole.
 Strong Republican districts are 10 to 20 percentage points more Republican than the country as a whole.
 Finally, Landslide Republican districts are at least 20 percentage points more Republican than the country as a whole.
As these figures make clear, the number of swing districts has been on a steady decline since at least 1992, and the number of landslide districts on a steady rise. The year 2008 was a partial exception: the number of landslide districts rose slightly from 2004, but so did the number of swing districts. However, the polarization of Congressional districts became sharper again in 2012.
Some of this was because of the redistricting that took place after the 2010 elections. Republicans were in charge of the redistricting process in many states, and they made efforts to shore up their incumbents, while packing Democrats into a few overwhelmingly Democratic districts. In the few large states where Democrats were in charge of the redistricting process, like Illinois, they largely adopted a parallel approach.
But redistricting alone did not account for the whole of the shift; instead, polarization has increased even after accounting for the change in boundaries.
Direct estimates of the 2012 presidential vote are available in 342 Congressional districts, based on the data compiled by David Nir of Daily Kos Elections. Mr. Nir's spreadsheet also estimates what the 2008 presidential vote was in each district based on its 2012 boundary lines.
The next graphic presents a comparison of how each of these districts voted in 2008 and 2012, holding each district's boundary lines constant. The correlation is extremely high. Mitt Romney came three or four points closer to defeating Mr. Obama than John McCain did in 2008, but for the most part the shift was fairly uniform in different parts of the country.
However, a more careful look at the chart reveals increasing polarization. The slope of the black regression line in the chart is greater than one (specifically, it is about 1.08). In plain English, this means that polarization increased by about 8 percent from 2008 to 2012 - above and beyond any changes brought about by redistricting. For example, a district that was 25 percentage points more Democratic than the country as a whole in 2008 was about 27 percentage points more Democratic than the national average this year. Likewise, a district that had been Republican-leaning by 25 percentage points in 2008 was typically 27 points more Republican than the rest of the country this year.
(Some 93 Congressional districts do not yet have their 2012 presidential vote reflected in Mr. Nir's spreadsheet, but it is possible to estimate what the vote was there to a high degree of accuracy. In each district, I estimated the 2012 vote as a function of what the vote had been in 2008 and the statewide shift from 2008 to 2012. Taking the indirect estimate of the vote in these districts and Mr. Nir's direct estimate for the other 342 is what yields my conclusion that there are only about 35 swing districts remaining.)
But these figures do not tell the whole story. There is also a second type of polarization, one that I remarked upon after the 2010 midterm elections. In addition to the sharp increase in the polarization of the presidential vote, there has also been a sharp decrease in ticket-splitting. Far fewer districts than before vote Democratic for president but Republican for the House, or vice versa. In 1992, there were 85 districts that I characterize as leaning toward one or another party based on its presidential vote. Of these districts, 27, or nearly one third, elected a member of the opposite party to the House, going against its presidential lean.
In 2012, there were only 53 such districts based on the presidential vote. But the decline in the number of ticket-splitting districts was sharper still. Of the 53 districts, just six, or about 11 percent, went against their presidential lean in their vote for the House.
Similarly, in 1992, there were 247 districts where the presidential vote was at least 10 percentage points more Republican or Democratic than in the country as a whole. Of these 42, or about 17 percent, split their tickets between their presidential and Congressional votes. Such splits are much rarer today. Of the 347 districts that were at least 10 points Democratic- or Republican-leaning in their presidential vote this year, only 6 (less than 2 percent) crossed party lines in their vote for the House.
There have been other periods in American history when polarization was high - particularly, from about 1880 through 1920. But it is not clear that there have been other periods when individual members of the House had so little to deter them from highly partisan behavior.
In the partisan era between 1880 and 1920, there were extremely rapid shifts in the composition of the House. For example, Democrats went from controlling 72 percent of House seats in 1890 to 26 percent in 1894. That is equivalent to Democrats losing about 200 seats in the House relative to today's baseline of 435 Congressional districts.
But because there are so many fewer swing districts today, the amount of turnover in the House is much less. The 63 seats that Republicans gained in 2010 was large by modern standards - but relatively small by historical ones considering that there had been more than a 17-point swing in the national popular vote for the House.
This year also featured a relatively large swing in the popular vote for the House: Democrats won it by one point nationally rather than losing it by seven in 2010, an eight-point shift. But they gained only eight House seats out of 435. The House has arguably never been so partisan - and yet there have probably never been so few members of the House who were at risk of losing their seats.
One of the firmest conclusions of academic research into the behavior of Congress is that what motivates members first and foremost is winning elections. If individual members of Congress have little chance of losing their seats if they fail to compromise, there should be little reason to expect them to do so. Republican leaders like House Speaker John A. Boehner may conclude that there are risks to their party if they fail to reach a compromise, as during the current fiscal negotiations. But as David Frum points out, the individual members of his caucus may bear few of those costs directly.
Meanwhile, the differences between the parties have become so strong, and so sharply split across geographic lines, that voters may see their choice of where to live as partly reflecting a political decision. This type of voter self-sorting may contribute more to the increased polarization of Congressional districts than redistricting itself. Liberal voters may be attracted to major urban centers because of their liberal politics (more than because of the economic opportunities that they offer), while conservative ones may be repelled from them for the same reasons.
In this environment, members of Congress have little need to build coalitions across voters with different sets of political preferences or values. Few members of Congress today are truly liberal on social issues but conservative on fiscal issues or vice versa.
Instead, partisanship has become more uniform. This also marks a break from previous eras, such as when voting on economic issues in Congress was not strongly correlated with voting on civil rights. 
What could reverse the trend toward greater partisanship? If one party were routinely being swept in elections, then perhaps individual members of the party would become more persuaded that their self-interest had become damaging to the party's collective interest. But it is not yet clear that we have reached that point.
Republicans performed very poorly in elections for the Senate this year, and they have lost the last two presidential elections. But their loss in 2008 was almost inevitable because of the economic condition of the country and the unpopularity of George W. Bush. This year's election was a more debatable case and might have been winnable for Mr. Romney, but Mr. Obama's margin of victory was only slightly wider than might have been predicted based on the improved jobs numbers throughout 2012.
Meanwhile, Republicans continue to control the majority of governorships and state legislatures after their 2010 sweep.
And they remain in control of the House of Representatives, in part because the median Congressional district is now about five points Republican-leaning relative to the country as a whole. Why this asymmetry? It's partly because Republicans created boundaries efficiently in redistricting and partly because the most Democratic districts in the country, like those in urban portions of New York or Chicago, are even more Democratic than the reddest districts of the country are Republican, meaning there are fewer Democratic voters remaining to distribute to swing districts.
Certainly, Republicans can't be entirely happy with their predicament. The Electoral College now seems to disadvantage them at least slightly, and if they struggle in the 2014 and 2016 elections, a better case can be made that the party is underachieving.
But because of the way districts are configured, their position in the House should be quite robust: it would require a Democratic wave year, and not a merely decent election for Democrats, as in 2012, for Republicans to lose control of the House.
These strengths and weaknesses for the Republican Party could be self-reinforcing, or at least they may have the same root cause. The district boundaries that give Republicans such strength in the House may also impede the party's ability to compromise, reducing their ability to appeal to the broader-based coalitions of voters so as to maximize their chances of winning Senate and presidential races. If so, however, that could mean divided government more often than not in the years ahead, with Republicans usually controlling the House while Democrats usually hold the Senate, the presidency, or both. As partisanship continues to increase, a divided government may increasingly mean a dysfunctional one.

        
Boehner's Three-Legged Stool of Doom
        
Let's Keep Talking About Redistricting
        
The Real G.O.P. Dark Horse: None of the Above
        
A Bad Economy Could Harm House Republicans
        
Freshmen Republicans Push House Toward Right

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); REDISTRICTING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); LIBERALISM (74%) Democrats; House of Representatives; partisanship; polarization; Republicans; Elections, House of Representatives; Presidential Election of 2012; Redistricting and Reapportionment; United States Politics and Government; Democratic Party; Republican Party; Politics

ORGANIZATION: Democratic Party; House of Representatives; Republican Party

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2012



907 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 8054 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
American Folk Art Museum: 'Foiled: Tinsel Painting in America' (through Jan. 13) Might tinsel painting, a decorative and resourceful form of picture making that was all the rage during the second half of the 19th century, be due for a comeback? Possibly, to judge from this cluttered but charming show, which seems tailor-made for the Etsy set. It includes some 150 works made by placing crinkly metallic foil under a protective surface of reverse-painted glass, most of them by unidentified artists. 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg) 
Asia Society and Museum: 'Bound Unbound: Lin Tianmiao' (through Jan. 27) Lin Tianmiao is one of a rare kind in China, where she lives: a nationally and internationally renowned female artist. This museumwide show presents installations that have not been widely seen. Influenced by American artists like Kiki Smith, Louise Bourgeois and Ann Hamilton -- who made the female body and traditional women's occupations hot topics during the 1990s when Ms. Lin was living in New York -- these productions are not particularly original. But they are striking for their surrealistic theatricality and labor intensive craft. 725 Park Avenue, at 70th Street, (212) 517-2742, asiasociety.org. (Ken Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Mickalene Thomas: Origin of the Universe' (through Jan. 20) This invigorating exhibition is dominated by big, brash collagelike paintings, thick with color and studded with rhinestones that depict cacophonous landscapes, spatially skewed interiors and, best of all, images of imperious black women among swaths of brightly patterned fabrics. Building on Conceptual identity art, borrowing from art history and 1970s blaxploitation extravagance, they subvert prevailing notions of beauty and taste and subvert the male gaze while offering resounding proof that the political, not only the personal, can also be stunningly pictorial. Bravo. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Materializing ''Six Years'': Lucy R. Lippard and the Emergence of Conceptual Art' (through Feb. 17) This big, intellectually enthralling exhibition of Conceptual works from the 1960s and early '70s is not a conventional museum period survey. Rather, it approximates how the rise of Conceptualism was seen while it was happening by one person: the curator, critic and writer Lucy R. Lippard, who was an extraordinarily energetic participant in and promoter of a trend that brought us the triumph of mind over matter in art. Anyone who wants art to be radically defiant of the market-driven system must see it. 200 Eastern Parkway, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'Caribbean: Crossroads of the World' (through Jan. 6) In size, cultural scope and freshness of material, the now two-museum exhibition ''Caribbean: Crossroads of the World'' is a big art event in New York City, itself one of the largest Caribbean cities in the world. Be warned: the thematically arranged show throws you into history at the deep end. Almost all the information is strictly visual; there are very few explanatory labels anywhere. But the visuals are so rich, and interact so provocatively, that you may well be inspired to go out and do some homework and come back for a second look. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org; Also on display at Queens Museum of Art, New York City Building, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 592-9700, queensmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Frick Collection: 'Mantegna to Matisse: Master Drawings From the Courtauld Gallery' (through Jan. 27) This show of 58 drawings from a London museum and institute of art history covers a lot of ground -- namely, the Renaissance, Baroque and Modern periods. The installation, which spills over from the lower-level galleries into the Cabinet Room off the lobby, encourages much back-and-forth between works of similar subject or virtuosity; Pontormo is paired with Michelangelo, Rubens with Rembrandt, and Goya with Daumier. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Frick Collection: 'Vincent van Gogh's Portrait of a Peasant (Patience Escalier)' (through Jan. 20) ''You'll shortly make the acquaintance of Mr. Patience Escalier -- a sort of man with a hoe, an old Camargue oxherd,'' Vincent van Gogh wrote to his brother, Theo, from the Provençal city of Arles in 1888. His bracingly vivid portrait the same year of this local character, with his grizzled beard and steely blue eyes offset by a ruddy complexion and bright yellow hat, normally resides at the Norton Simon Museum in Pasadena, Calif. But for the next few months it can be seen at the Frick as part of an exchange program between the two museums. Installed on a temporary wall in the Oval Room, it shocks the neighboring Whistler portraits with its feral gaze and forthright celebration of hard labor. 1 East 70th Street, (212) 288-0700, frick.org. (Rosenberg)
Guggenheim Museum: 'Gabriel Orozco: Asterisms' (through Jan. 13) For one-half of this two-part exhibition, Mr. Orozco and his team collected about 1,200 pieces of flotsam and jetsam that washed up on the beach of a nature preserve in Mexico. All are displayed by type in a color-coordinated rectangle on the floor along with framed grids of photographs of each item. A playing field on Pier 40 in Manhattan was similarly combed for detritus. The two presentations resemble exhibitions in a natural history museum. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'Picasso Black and White' (through Jan. 23) Billed as the first monochromatic look at Picasso's whole career, this exhibition is as eye-opening as it is elegant. That's especially true among the later works on the upper ramps, which push well past the obligatory Neo-Classicism and Analytic Cubism into bracingly sensual explorations of the figure, strident political cries de coeur à la Guernica, and winking homages to Delacroix and Velázquez. Also notable: Thirty eight of the show's 118 works have never been exhibited in this country, and 5, among them the sharply angular ''Bust of a Woman With a Hat'' (1939), have never been on view publicly. 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'Rise and Fall of Apartheid: Photography and Bureaucracy of Everyday Life' (through Jan. 6) With more than 500 photographs -- supplemented by books, magazines, posters and films -- spread over two floors, this show documenting institutionalized racism in South Africa from 1948 to the election of Nelson Mandela in 1994 can't help being overwhelming. But it's pitched as much to the mind, as to the heart. On the one hand, it's a grand narrative of stirring sights: ardent faces, agitated bodies, camaraderie, clenched fists, funerals. It's also a disquisition on the ordinariness of goodness and evil, on how people in a particular time and place encounter and partake of both, and go on with their lives. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Japan Society: 'Silver Wind: The Arts of Sakai Hoitsu (1761-1828)' (through Jan. 6) Have any artists ever, anywhere, caught the hello-ness of spring and the farewell-ness of autumn more sweetly and sharply than the Rimpa painters of Japan? Two shimmering fall exhibitions -- this show is running in conjunction with ''Designing Nature: The Rinpa Aesthetic in Japanese Art'' at the Metropolitan Museum of Art -- argue persuasively, that no, no artists ever have. Together the exhibitions add up to one of the largest Rimpa displays seen outside of Japan in years, with Japan Society's show giving us a more concentrated view of the style. 333 East 47th Street, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'George Bellows' (through Feb. 18) Organized by the National Gallery in Washington, this exhibition starts strong with the lush early paintings of New York City and its residents for which Bellows is justifiably well known. It then devotes more than half its space to a disorganized reprise of his restless but steady artistic decline, which ended with his death in 1925 at 42 from a ruptured appendix. It does little to clarify his achievement, partly because of the short shrift given to his plein-air oil studies and late landscape paintings. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Bernini: Sculpting in Clay' (through Jan. 6) Gian Lorenzo Bernini, one of the great marble sculptors of all time, never made an artwork in clay as a finished piece. He did, however, use clay to work out his ideas, and he probably produced thousands of studies in that generously plastic material. But today only 52 pieces in clay are known to have been made by him, and this revealing exhibition presents 39 of them. They range from small, quickly made sketches of angels and other beings that today look surprisingly modern to an amazing, half-size lion pausing to drink from an invisible pool. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Designing Nature: The Rinpa Aesthetic in Japanese Art' (through Jan. 13) Have any artists ever, anywhere, caught the hello-ness of spring and the farewell-ness of autumn more sweetly and sharply than the Rimpa painters of Japan? Two shimmering fall exhibitions -- this show is running in conjunction with ''Silver Wind: The Arts of Sakai Hoitsu (1761-1828)'' at Japan Society -- argue persuasively, that no, no artists ever have. Together the exhibitions add up to one of the largest Rimpa displays seen outside of Japan in years, with the Met's show giving us a broader view of the style. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Extravagant Inventions: The Princely Furniture of the Roentgens' (through Jan. 27) The first in-depth survey of the brilliant artistry and engineering of Abraham and David Roentgen, a father-and-son team of genius German cabinetmakers, features roll-top desks, writing tables, chairs and clocks. Rife with intricate inlay and marquetry, gilded mounts and hidden compartments revealed by the touch of a button, these objects were among the supreme status symbols of late-18th-century Europe. Video animations show seven of the desks in action. The show is, over all, a stealth blockbuster. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Faking It: Manipulated Photography Before Photoshop' (through Jan. 27) This absorbing, often amusing exhibition offers abundant evidence that photographers have been cheating since shortly after the medium's invention almost two centuries ago. It features prints dating from 1846 to the early '90s made from altered negatives; seemingly realistic images made by piecing together two or more negatives; hand-colored black-and-white prints; Surrealistic montages; and conceptual confections contesting the ideal of photographic truth. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Matisse: In Search of True Painting' (through March 17) This stunning exhibition skims across the great French modernist's long, productive career with a mere 49 stellar, often pivotal paintings arranged in pairs or groups according to subject. Examining his penchant for working in series and copying his own canvases, they shed new light on the arduous evolution of Matisse's seemingly effortless art, forming one of the most thrillingly instructive exhibitions about the artist, or painting in general, that you may ever see. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Chinese Gardens: Pavilions, Studios, Retreats' (through Jan. 6) To anyone strolling through the Chinese painting galleries at the Met, the whole world will look like a garden of infinite expansion. That's the impression given by the 80 paintings and objects that make up this fragrant exhibition, drawn entirely from the museum's deep holdings, about paradises lost and found; about nature blooming and fading; about cosmological events transpiring in backyard bamboo groves. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Huma Bhabha: Unnatural Histories' (through April 1) In this midcareer survey, long-enduring forms from the ancient world lend some gravity to the throwaway materials that are now commonplace in contemporary sculpture. You could also say that the precariousness of recent assemblage and installation art haunts Ms. Bhabha's monstrous, totemic figures, which are typically made of Styrofoam, clay, rubber, wood scraps and wire mesh; either way, the juxtaposition is arresting. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt: Tender Love Among the Junk' (through April 1) Mr. Lanigan-Schmidt makes luminous art out of trash: candy wrappers, cling wrap, reflective plastics, aluminum foil, plastic bottles, beer cans and too many other kinds of cheap refuse to list. As this four-decade retrospective reveals, his devotion to his materials and hobbylike processes has yielded an oeuvre of transcending beauty, eroticized religiosity and poignant autobiography. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, momaps1.org. (Johnson)
MoMA PS1: 'Now Dig This! Art & Black Los Angeles 1960-1980' (through March 11) This exhibition of works by black artists who lived and worked in Los Angeles during a time of revolutionary changes happening in art and society had its debut at the Hammer Museum last year as part of the citywide extravaganza ''Pacific Standard Time: Art in L.A. 1945-1980.'' Focusing mainly on assemblage, the show includes pieces by Melvin Edwards, Betye Saar, David Hammons and nearly 30 others. It contributes a valuable chapter to the American art history of the last 50 years. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
Morgan Library and Museum: 'Durer to de Kooning: 100 Master Drawings From Munich' (through Jan. 6) A few years ago the Morgan lent a cache of drawings to the Staatliche Graphische Sammlung in Munich. Now it's payback time, and 100 choice drawings from that venerable German museum are in New York. Mantegna, Michelangelo and Raphael are among the serious marquee names, nicely balanced with cartoon heads by Sigmar Polke. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 686-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Fantasy and Invention: Rosso Fiorentino and Sixteenth-Century Florentine Drawing' (through Feb. 3) With just under 30 works, including an unfinished Rosso painting on loan from the Walters Art Museum in Baltimore, a Rosso drawing from the Metropolitan Museum and a smattering of drawings and letters by other Italian masters in the Morgan's collection, this small exhibition is a fine little introduction to the eccentricities of Florentine Mannerism and to one of the style's quirkiest practitioners, who was lauded by Vasari as ''bold and well grounded in draftsmanship, graceful in manner, sublime in the highest flights of the imagination.'' 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Doris Duke's Shangri-La: Architecture, Landscape and Islamic Art' (through Feb. 17) The Honolulu estate known as Shangri La is a masterpiece of refined eclecticism. Doris Duke, the owner, referred to it as a ''Spanish-Moorish-Persian-Indian complex.'' Whatever you call it, it looks magnificent in this show and the accompanying book. Both combine sparkling new color shots of the home and gardens taken by Tim Street-Porter; architectural documents and vintage photographs; pieces of the collection; and projects by contemporary artists who had residencies at Shangri La (which has served, since Duke's death in 1993, as the Doris Duke Foundation for Islamic Art). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Born Out of Necessity' (through Jan. 28) The title may or may not have an extra preposition, but the show itself is a fascinating array of recent acquisitions that have a fairly direct bearing on quality of life or actual survival. They range from classic (the 1908 Dixie cup) to cutting edge; cover both analog and digital; and include the tiny (the latest in earplugs) and the quite large (the 1952 United States Army Jeep). Whether born ''of'' or ''out of'' necessity, the displays attest to human ingenuity responding to human need. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Inventing Abstraction: 1910-1925' (through April 15) This dizzying yet magisterial cornucopia covers a period when abstraction was the holy grail of modern art, feverishly pursued in numerous new styles and all mediums by creative types in Europe, Russia and elsewhere. Displaying some 350 artworks by 84 artists, including works of poetry, music and dance, it portrays with new accuracy the advent of western abstraction as a grand enterprise carried out by a heady, sometimes volatile mix of personalities, ideas and mediums. Bravi. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Edvard Munch: The Scream' (through April 29) A version of Edvard Munch's ''Scream'' is on view at this museum for the next six months, having come almost straight from the auction block. Protected by a Plexiglas box, like the Mona Lisa, it has been given a prominent perch opposite van Gogh's ''Starry Night'' in the fifth-floor painting and sculpture galleries. There is talk of timed tickets. But if you can put up with all the pageantry, you'll have a rare chance to get acquainted with ''The Scream'' in person and in context. The museum has built a mini-exhibition around the work, surrounding it with Munch paintings and prints that amplify its motifs and mood. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
Museum of Modern Art: 'New Photography 2012' (through Feb. 4) In her pellucid photographs, Anne Collier contemplates old record album covers and an Edward Weston photograph in an old MoMA date book. In montages by Michele Abeles we see the bodies of naked men through spaces between grids and stripes cut from other printed materials. Shirana Shahbazi's abstractions picture alluring colors and light of photography itself. Zoe Crosher recycles amateur snapshots by a woman who worked as an escort in the 1960s, '70s and '80s. The two members of a team known as Birdhead use nondigital cameras and black-and-white film to shoot scenes in their hometown, Shanghai. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Quay Brothers: On Deciphering the Pharmacist's Prescription for Lip-Reading Puppets' (through Jan. 7) The first major museum retrospective devoted to the strange puppet-haunted universe unleashed in the Quay Brothers' stop-action film animations includes their magical miniature stage sets, a sizable sampling of drawings, prints, collages and early illustration designs as well as works by artists who influenced them. More than 30 years of animated and live-action shorts, television commercials, music videos and imaginative documentaries in particular allow devotees and neophytes alike to grasp the essence of Timothy and Stephen Quay's achievement and its evolution, strengths and weaknesses all. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Alina Szapocznikow: Sculpture Undone, 1955-1972' (through Jan. 28) This small but intense exhibition is the museum's second show of an Eastern European female artist in less than a year, following the Conceptual performance and photography of ''Sanja Ivekovic: Sweet Violence.'' For many Americans it will be their first look at Ms. Szapocznikow's precocious Pop-Surrealist sculpture, much of which parallels work made on these shores by Lynda Benglis, Eva Hesse and Hannah Wilke. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Tokyo 1955-1970: A New Avant-Garde' (through Feb. 25) Modernist art, insurgent and utopian, ignited like a firecracker cluster in cities across the globe in the early 20th century, and Tokyo was one of them. Rising from the ashes after World War II, it produced huge amounts of new art, feisty, fantastic, often politically subversive. And a wave of it comes surging out at you like a blast of sound -- half noise, half music -- in this surprising exhibition made up of loans from Japan and little-seen material from MoMA's collection. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through March 11) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; National Academy Museum: 'John Cage: the Sight of Silence' (Jan. 13) This solo show of John Cage's lambent late watercolors, produced in the decade or so before his death in 1992, is a superb, late addition to the 2012 Cage centenary year. It's a sort of companion to the Philadelphia Museum of Art's ''Dancing Around the Bride: Cage, Cunningham, Johns, Rauschenberg and Duchamp,'' which focuses on a transformative moment in American modernism when a heroic view of art ended, and another view, cool, wry and brainy, began. (That Philadelphia show runs through Jan. 21.) 1083 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 369-4880, nationalacademy.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Ferdinand Hodler: View to Infinity' (through Jan. 7) Near the end of this exhibition you come to a small, chapel-like room containing a painting from 1915 of Ferdinand Hodler's longtime model and lover Valentine Godé-Darel on her deathbed; three small, vibrantly colored landscapes; and a self-portrait. Thus ring the basic themes that unfold in this extraordinarily touching show of late works by the Swiss Symbolist: Self, Other, Love, Death and World. 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Ken Johnson)
New Museum: 'Judith Bernstein: ''HARD'' ' (through Jan. 20) Ms. Bernstein is well-known for the giant drawings of phallic screws that she began making in the late 1960s. Two from the '70s are the main attractions in this much-abbreviated, 40-year retrospective, her first show in a museum. In these bravura performances of draftsmanship on vast sheets of paper, the screws extend horizontally as if they were drilling tunnels through mountains. Rendered by sweeping strokes of charcoal, they appear wildly hairy and scarily purposeful: biomechanical monstrosities of testosterone-fueled fury. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; New Museum: 'Rosemarie Trockel: A Cosmos' (through Jan. 20) This elegant, mind-expanding exhibition sidesteps the standard retrospective format and a linear, canonical version of art history. Ms. Trockel emphasizes her recent work in numerous mediums -- most impressively ceramics, photography and drawing, sharing the spotlight with outsider artists, botanical illustrations and zoological models and even natural specimens. The result is completely entrancing, a celebration of nature and also of human nature -- its curiosity, ingenuity and yearning for expression -- encapsulated by the artist's magnanimous vision. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Smith)
New-York Historical Society: 'John Rogers: American Stories' (through Feb. 18) The sculptor John Rogers (1829-1904) was the Norman Rockwell of his time. For a few decades following the Civil War, his lively, anecdotal, figurative tableaus known as Rogers Groups sold by the tens of thousands to middle- and upper-middle-class folks for about $15 apiece. Including examples of the technically impressive bronze masters from which the multiples were cast in plaster, this exhibition showcases an artist who was as remarkable for his entrepreneurial savvy as for his idealistic vision of life in America. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Rubin Museum of Art: 'Candid: The Lens and Life of Homai Vyarawalla' (through Jan. 14) The Indian photojournalist Homai Vyarawalla (1913-2012) was on the spot time and again to record the history of modern South Asia being made. This small, evocative, event-filled retrospective catches highlights of her career, including her coverage of Mohandas Gandhi's funeral; important events in the career of the charismatic Jawaharlal Nehru; and visits from Nikita Khrushchev, Ho Chi Minh and Jacqueline Kennedy. As one of the few female photographers in the Indian press corps in her day, Ms. Vyarawalla was a pioneer; in 1970 she abruptly put down her camera and disappeared until her recent rediscovery by younger peers. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; South Street Seaport Museum: 'Compass: Folk Art in Four Directions' (through Feb. 3) The American Folk Art Museum presents some 200 works from its unparalleled collection in this beautifully orchestrated exhibition. Paintings, sculpture, textiles, scrimshaw, painted furniture and much, much more are arrayed along themes that reflect the history of Lower Manhattan -- seafaring, commerce, social life and that all-important factor, the weather -- but not too tightly. Poetic license is taken, yielding an intricate constellation of connected artworks, histories and concerns that highlights one of the city's great treasures. 12 Fulton Street, Lower Manhattan, (212) 748-8600, southstreetseaportmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Studio Museum in Harlem: 'Fore' (through March 10) In 2001 the Studio Museum in Harlem opened a dynamite group exhibition called ''Freestyle,'' which turned out to be the first in a series of shows introducing emerging artists of African-American descent. In the latest edition, ''Fore,'' organized by three young staff curators, Lauren Haynes, Naima J. Keith and Thomas J. Lax, covers the waterfront in terms of media, which it samples and mixes with turntablist flair, and in its contents, ranging from abstract to personal to political, sometimes combining all three. Firelei Báez, Sadie Barnette, Crystal Z. Campbell, Zachary Fabri, Yashua Klos, Akosua Adoma Owusu, Valerie Piraino and Nikki Pressley are some of the names to look for. 144 West 125th Street, (212) 864-4500, studiomuseum.org. (Cotter)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Richard Artschwager!' (through Feb. 3) Mr. Artschwager had his first career retrospective at the Whitney Museum in 1988, and now, at 88, he is having his second. Much of the work -- the furniturelike sculptures covered with wood-grain Formica and the paintings that appeared to be done with smudged soot -- is familiar. His recent portraits of George W. Bush and Osama bin Laden, and his high-color landscapes of the American Southwest are not. An installation of his famous ''blps'' (pronounced blips), abstract lozenge forms, usually black and shaped like the uprights in an exclamation point, is in place on and around the High Line near the site of the Whitney's future home at Gansevoort and Washington Streets. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Wade Guyton: OS' (through Jan. 13) Something of a rarity this fall season, a beautiful, thoughtfully staged show makes a cogent case for a young painter with no overt political ax to grind working in New York. Made entirely with computer, scanner and printer -- the OS refers to computer operating systems -- his works methodically explore the possibilities of technology as just another if especially up-to-date paintbrush. The results are full of glitches and irregularities that provide their own pictorial life, full of the ghosts of painting past and strikingly original. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Sinister Pop' and 'Dark and Deadpan: Pop in TV and the Movies' (through March 31) The dark and truculent mood of this collection show is conversant with recent presentations of Warhol's death-and-disaster paintings, but the curators make plenty of room for other artists (including photographers). The point is not to cast a pall over Pop as we know it; it's to find common ground between the winking consumerism of early-1960s art and the antiwar, anti-corporate sentiment of work made later in the decade and into the 1970s. (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605; 'Calder: The Complete Bronzes' (through Feb. 9) The ingenious master of spare, levitating modern sculpture in wire, wood and sheet metal turns out to have been almost as adept with the ancient dead-weight staple of bronze, as demonstrated by 35 examples and some dozen plaster models in this eye-opening show. They run the gamut from figurative to abstract; dabble in Surrealism; achieve their own kind of levitation; and delve into art history while enabling the artist to use his hands and amazing tactile sense in a different way. L&M Arts, 45 East 78th Street, (212) 861-0020, lmgallery.com. (Smith)
Bob Dylan: 'Revisionist Art' (through Jan. 12) Bob Dylan may be a genius but he's no polymath. His music is great. His attempts at visual art have gone from bad to worse. From paintings based on photographs, he has turned to full-on appropriation with silk-screened works that rejigger the words and pictures on the covers of magazines like Time, Life, Playboy and Rolling Stone. Alternately obscure or obvious, these attempts at social satire suggest that the line between naïveté and cynicism is sometimes very thin. Gagosian Gallery, 980 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 744-2313, gagosian.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Echoes of the Past: The Buddhist Cave Temples of Xiangtangshan' (through Jan. 6) In the Buddhist way of thinking, all things must pass, though that seems a shame if they're as out-of-this-world beautiful as Chinese Buddhist art is. But could that vision of transience be changing in the 21st century, as still-crude technology lets images live on out there in digital clouds? Regret and hope alike run through this multifaceted show that presents a dozen gorgeous sixth-century sculptures and a digital simulation of the cave temple in China from which some of them were long ago removed. Institute for the Study of the Ancient World, 15 East 84th Street, (212) 992-7800, isaw.nyu.edu. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Ann Hamilton: 'the event of a thread' (through Jan. 6) Art as thought-provoking playground, this elaborate installation-performance piece centers on 42 large swings to be enjoyed by viewers, and the enormous silk curtain hanging among them, from the rafters, that their swinging agitates. A kind of weaving together of language and sound, movement and stillness, form and behavior, public and private, it is the artist's most interactive work yet and a big improvement over her fastidious previous efforts, which often resembled esoteric window displays. Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Where is Jack Goldstein?' (through Jan. 15) Jack Goldstein, who died a suicide at 57 in 2003, was one of contemporary art's mystery men. He made his mark in New York in the late 1970s and 1980s as one of group of artists working with media-inspired imagery. Then in the 1990s, he more or less disappeared, personally and professionally. This show of 13 paintings -- with images lifted from photographs of lightning strikes, unexplained explosions and aerial bombardments -- makes a strong case for a continued interest. Venus Over Manhattan, 980 Madison Avenue, at 76th Street, (212) 980-0700, venusovermanhattan.com. (Cotter)
Galleries: Chelsea
Agnes Denes: 'Sculptures of the Mind: 1968 to Now' (through Jan. 19) By the end of the 1960s, art's final frontier was mind itself, and Agnes Denes has been one of its brainiest and far-ranging explorers. This much abridged retrospective includes a miniature tableau of skeletons in philosophical conversation, diagrams of a system of symbolic logic that Ms. Denes thought up, and photographs of outdoor works like the wheat field she planted on a parcel of landfill near the World Trade Center in 1982. Leslie Tonkonow, 535 West 22nd Street, (212) 255-8450, tonkonow.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Carroll Dunham' (through Jan. 19) All nine of Mr. Dunhams big, comical and exhilarating paintings represent landscapes resembling a South Pacific paradise, with chunky, fat-leafed trees and colorful, spongy flowers. Six feature the figure of a naked woman of heroic proportions with chalk-white skin and untamed black hair drawn in thick black lines, bathing, swimming and cavorting in this Edenic setting. She might be the artist's own inner wild woman. Gladstone, 515 West 24th Street, (212) 206-9300, gladstonegallery.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; 'Keltie Ferris' (through Jan. 12) Keltie Ferris's big, scintillating paintings feel fresh, direct and very much of this moment. That's partly because they seem to picture a kind of visual experience that did not exist before the advent of digital forms of visualization. Made with lively immediacy on canvases up to nearly nine feet in their longest dimensions, they give the impression of computer-screen imagery breaking up into pixels and blurs. Mitchell-Innes & Nash, 534 West 26th Street, (212) 744-7400, miandn.com. (Johnson)
Alicja Kwade: 'The Heavy Weight of Light' (through Jan. 12) Elegantly understated works by this Berlin artist are as much thought experiments as sculptures. A folding screen of clear glass panels with electric globe lights on the floor on either side becomes a puzzle about perceptions and reflections. Clocks on the walls run faster and slower than normal. Pieces of pipe and lumber apparently have become rubberized. It gives pause to consider a world so arbitrarily variable. Harris Lieberman, 508 West 26th Street, (212) 206-1290, harrislieberman.com. (Johnson)
John A. Parks: 'Paint and Memory' (through Jan. 19) The strange, seemingly innocent paintings that dominate this show are small, based on the artist's childhood memories and painted with his fingers. The loosely Pointillist, somewhat Vuillardian hazes of color, light and form that result demarcate trees, gardens, brick buildings, puffy clouds and, above all, scrambling children, whose feral energy and natural subversiveness are vividly conveyed. The distinction between illustration and painting is rendered moot by the teeming quality of both surface and subject. 532 Gallery Thomas Jaeckel, 532 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (917) 701-3338, 532gallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Charles Ray' (through Jan. 12) This striking show features the sculptor's latest forays into post-Conceptual realism, namely two male nudes -- one standing and one crouching -- and a clothed, homeless woman sleeping on a bench. Oddly luminous, finely detailed, 10 percent larger than life and carved by computer-driven machines in solid stainless steel, they form a beautifully spare arrangement and a cat's cradle of ricocheting ideas that both update and disrupt longstanding sculptural motifs, techniques and traditions. Matthew Marks Gallery, 522 West 22nd Street, (212) 243-0200, matthewmarks.com. (Smith)
'Arpita Singh' (through Jan. 5) Arpita Singh, who was born in West Bengal in 1937 and has long lived in New Delhi, makes an infrequent New York appearance with this small, fine show of recent watercolors. Ms. Singh began her career as an abstract artist, then switched to painting folkloric scenes of daily life in Bengal before settling on the enigmatic, quasi-narrative mode that has become her signature. And that's what we see here: art that isn't precisely topical or allegorical or autobiographical, but partly all of these. DC Moore Gallery, 535 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 247-2111, dcmooregallery.com. (Cotter)
Galleries: Other
'The Islands of Benoît Mandelbrot: Fractals, Chaos, and the Materiality of Thinking' (through Jan. 27) This heady, compact exhibition presents efforts from the 1960s and '70s to visualize a species of mathematical formulas known as fractals, a term coined by the mathematician Benoît Mandelbrot (1924-2012). The visual impact of the computer printouts, short films, 3-D models, letters, sketches and Polaroids on display is low, but the philosophical import is great considering the enormous advances in scientific imaging technology that have happened since those early days. Bard Graduate Center, 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Hito Steyerl' (through Jan. 5) The New York solo debut of the Berlin-based artist and writer Hito Steyerl is one of the most stimulating gallery shows of the season. The artist works primarily in video, but broadens the medium to include documentary, staged history, found film images, and the near-equivalent of home movies. And whether dealing with radical politics or personal friendship, the two in some cases inseparable, she refuses to nail down a single idea, or point of view. Instead, we get art as an act of moral thinking-in-progress. e-flux, 311 East Broadway, at Grand Street, Lower East Side, (212) 619-3356, e-flux.com. (Cotter)
Out of Town
&#x2605; Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden: 'Ai Weiwei: According to What?' (through Feb. 24) As seen in its first American survey, the work of the lionhearted Chinese artist Ai Weiwei, is no match for his prominent role as a human rights advocate. The sculptures and installation pieces too often adhere to the fashionable international genre of handsome, Conceptually generated artworks. Explanatory labels do much of the heavy lifting, along with historically-charged materials and objects, like Chinese antique furniture and wood from destroyed Qing dynasty temples. The artist's photographs and videos suggest that his documentary work may be best. On the National Mall, at Independence Avenue Southwest and Seventh Street, Washington, (202) 633-4674, hirshhorn.si.edu; free. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art: 'Oh Canada' (through April 8) Seesawing between bigness and intimacy, the personal and the communal, this 62-artist survey of contemporary art in the Great White North may tell you more about Canada's identity crisis than it does about Canadian art. A sense of place, if not nationhood, does emerge in stark photographs of Newfoundland by Ned Pratt and Kim Morgan's hanging latex cast of a lighthouse on Prince Edward Island. Elsewhere, cartoonlike pencil drawings by Annie Pootoogook and Shuvinai Ashoona depict contemporary Inuit life and the artist Amalie Atkins stars in a prairie fairy tale involving musical wolves and bears with golden teeth. 87 Marshall Street, North Adams, (413) 662-2111, massmoca.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
National Gallery of Art: 'Roy Lichtenstein: A Retrospective' (through Jan. 13) The first major survey of this Pop artist's career work since his death, at 73, in 1997, is a big show and has some slow spots, but on the whole it moves right along. As always, Lichtenstein's large-featured images, with their Ben-Day dot patterns; thick, black contours; and flat, bright colors are almost ergonomically comfortable to the eye. On the National Mall, between Third and Seventh Streets, at Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, (202) 737-4215, nga.gov. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; Philadelphia Museum of Art: 'Dancing Around the Bride: Cage, Cunningham, Johns, Rauschenberg and Duchamp' (through Jan. 21) The Philadelphia show, an ensemble performance composed of entirely stars, with an elusive sun, Marcel Duchamp, at the center, focuses on a transformative moment in American modernism when a heroic view of art ended, and another view, cool, wry and brainy, began. In Manhattan, the most radical of all those stars, John Cage, gets a solo show of his lambent late watercolors in honor of his 2012 centenary year. (That Manhattan show, ''John Cage: The Sight of Silence'' at the National Academy Museum, runs through Jan. 13.) Benjamin Franklin Parkway at 26th Street, (215) 763-8100, philamuseum.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; The Walters Art Museum: 'Revealing the African Presence in Renaissance Europe' (through Jan. 21) This history-rattling exhibition is a visual gift, with marvelous things by artists familiar and revered -- Durer, Rubens, Veronese -- along with images most of us never knew existed. Together, they map a history of art, politics and race that few museums have addressed in full-dress style. Like the best scholarship, the Walters show, organized by Joaneath Spicer, the museum's curator of Renaissance and Baroque art, is as much about questions as answers. It takes a prized piece of art history, one polished to a glow by generations of attention, and turns it in an unexpected direction, so it catches the searching, scouring rays of new investigative light. (From Feb. 16 to June 9 it will be at the Princeton University Art Museum in Princeton, N.J.) 600 North Charles Street, Baltimore, (410) 547-9000, thewalters.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Yale University Art Gallery (continuing) In a museum era dominated by vying forces of bad economics and compulsive building, it's a miracle when something comes out right, which makes the opening of the splendidly renovated and expanded Yale University Art Gallery a happy event. The angels of art, design and budgetary planning were on duty. Everything worked. The country's oldest university art museum has arrived at a kind institutional ideal of opposites in balance: an encyclopedic teaching museum, big enough to get lost in, small enough for intimate art encounters. New galleries of Indo-Pacific art are a particular attraction, but so are other collections, including one of the countries premier holdings in American art and a small, matchless display of very early Italian Renaissance painting. A special exhibition, ''Societe Anonyme: Modernism for America,'' made up of Yale-owned material, is on view through July 14. 1111 Chapel Street, New Haven, (203) 432-0600, artgallery.yale.edu. (Cotter)
Last Chance
Terry Allen: 'Ghosts: Works from ''Dugout'' / ''Ghost Ship Rodez'' / and Others' (closes on Saturday) This Sante Fe, N.M., resident is known in discerning popular music circles for albums from the fringes of country western. In his visual art he favors a style you might call Old West Psychedelic, a funky mix of drawing, writing, sculpture and multimedia installation that combines comedy and tragedy, realistic grit and visionary imagination. This show is a good introduction to a trippy yet earthy mind too rarely heard from here in New York. Nyehaus, 358 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 366-4493, nyehaus.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605; William Baziotes: 'A Centennial Exhibition: Surrealist Drawings of the 1930s' (closes on Saturday) More low than high, these raucous sometimes ribald figurative images in watercolor and gouache reveal quite a different side of the well-respected second-tier Abstract Expressionist painter best known for the tasteful restraint, diaphanous colors and blurry organic shapes of his mature style. These heady cocktails of Miró, Picasso, Surrealist automatism and sometimes ancient myth also hint at misbehaviors to come, from underground comics to William N. Copley and Peter Saul. Susan Teller Gallery, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, SoHo, (212) 941-7335, susantellergallery.com. (Smith)
&#x2605; 'Egon Schiele's Women' (closes on Friday) New York's most thorough look at Egon Schiele since a 2005 exhibition at the Neue Galerie finds the artist working through a long and impressively varied list of female models, including his mother; a rebellious sister who sometimes posed nude for him; anonymous pregnant women in a maternity hospital; a pair of young prostitutes known as the ''black-haired girls''; his redheaded lover Wally Neuzil; and his strait-laced bourgeois wife, Edith. In an accompanying book, the gallery owner, Jane Kallir, argues persuasively that Schiele, in contrast to contemporaries like Gustav Klimt, ''did not judge his women; he merely observed.'' Galerie St. Etienne, 24 West 57th Street, (212) 245-6734, gseart.com. (Rosenberg)
Institute of Contemporary Art, Pennsylvania: 'Jeremy Deller: Joy in People' (closes on Sunday) The British artist Jeremy Deller, the subject of this thought-provoking show, is the anti-Damien Hirst. He has fashioned a Turner Prize-winning career devoted to breaking down the traditional walls between art and the world at large. Rather than producing visually arresting objects for sale in antiseptic galleries he has organized parades; created odd signs and bumper stickers; made a film about Depeche Mode fans around the world; and orchestrated a historical re-enactment of a large, violent conflict between striking coal miners and police in Orgreave, in South Yorkshire, in 1984. University of Pennsylvania, 118 South 36th Street, Philadelphia, (215) 898-7108, icaphila.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Regarding Warhol: Sixty Artists, Fifty Years' (closes on Monday) The Met's latest foray into recent art has undoubtedly been a crowd-pleaser, not the least for the mini-Warhol retrospective of 50 works that forms its spine. But with 100 often significant works by 59 other relentlessly predictable artists -- including Gerhard Richter, Cindy Sherman and Jeff Koons -- it is largely a shapeless, enthusiastic muddle. A dismaying return to the great-man, über-artist approach to art history, it does little to diminish the perception that where new art is concerned, the Met has a very long way to go. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Steve Wheeler: 'The Oracle Visiting the 21st Century' (closes on Saturday) This irrepressible group show examines the influence of the Indian Space painter Steve Wheeler (1912-92) on both his own generation and succeeding ones. It includes work by fellow Indian Spacers like Robert Barrell (1912-95), and also finds striking visual analogies in recent efforts by Tom Burckhardt, Elizabeth Murray and Margrit Lewczuk, and especially Luke Gray and Baker Oversteet. But the unquestionable star is the visiting oracle himself, represented in nine works that provide a new sense of artistic breadth. David Findlay Jr. Gallery, 724 Fifth Avenue, near 57th Street, (212) 486-7660, davidfindlayjr.com. (Smith)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEW MUSEUM: 'ROSEMARIE TROCKEL: A COSMOS': (through Jan. 20) This elegant, mind-expanding exhibition sidesteps the standard retrospective format and a linear, canonical version of art history. Ms. Trockel emphasizes her recent work in numerous mediums -- most impressively ceramics, photography and drawing, sharing the spotlight with outsider artists, botanical illustrations and zoological models and even natural specimens. The result is entrancing, a celebration of nature and also of human nature -- its curiosity, ingenuity and yearning for expression -- encapsulated by this artist's magnanimous vision. (An exhibition view, above, shows Judith Scott's ''Untitled,'' from 1989, foreground, with Ms. Trockel's wall art ''Belle Époque,'' left, from 2011, and ''Silent Way,'' from 2012. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith) (PHOTOGRAPH BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); PAINTING (79%); HISTORY (78%); TRENDS (78%); ART HISTORY (74%); WOMEN (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (76%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



908 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 453 words

HEADLINE: 'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' Sells Well

BYLINE: By PATRICK HEALY

 BODY:
The Scarlett Johansson-led revival of "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof" is off to a strong start on Broadway, grossing $843,215 for its first seven preview performances last week - more money than any of the last three Broadway revivals of the play made in a single week, even after adjusting for inflation. Those revivals starred Anika Noni Rose (in 2008), Ashley Judd (2003) and Kathleen Turner (1990) in the role of Maggie, which Ms. Johansson is playing in the new production, whose box-office sales have benefited from the advent of premium ticket pricing of up to $175 a seat last week. 
The production of "Cat," along with the Broadway revival of "Glengarry Glen Ross" (starring Al Pacino), were the highest-earning plays in a pre-Christmas week that is almost always dominated by musicals.
According to box-office data released on Wednesday by the Broadway League, a trade association of theater owners and producers, the Disney musical "The Lion King" set a box-office record at the Minskoff Theater for an eight performance-week, grossing $2,129,609. "Wicked" was a close second with $2.1 million, followed by "The Book of Mormon" at $1.68 million. The musical "Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark" showed softening at the box office, grossing $1.47 million (compared to $1.76 million for the same week last December). And ticket sales for the revival of "Evita" weakened further as its run nears an end next month, grossing $774,870 last week, about $35,000 less than the previous week.
A new holiday show, "A Christmas Story," continued to sell well, grossing $1.49 million and setting a record at the Lunt-Fontanne Theater for a nine-performance week; most other musicals held the standard eight performances.
Several plays featuring well-known actors have been selling modestly or poorly this fall, and that trend persisted last week in spite of the tourist surge in New York City.
"Dead Accounts," a dark family comedy starring Katie Holmes and two-time Tony Award winner Norbert Leo Butz, took in $243,154 (or only 25 percent of its maximum possible gross). "Grace," with Paul Rudd and Michael Shannon, grossed $284,889 (or 31 percent of the maximum possible amount). Also struggling at the box office were two plays that, like "Cat on a Hot Tin Roof," are still in preview performances and have yet to be reviewed: "Picnic," starring Maggie Grace and Ellen Burstyn, had the lowest gross of the week with $149,300, followed by "The Other Place" (starring Laurie Metcalf) with $149,652.
Over all, Broadway musicals and plays grossed $25.85 million last week, compared to $23.5 million the previous week and $23.3 million for the same week last year.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER REVIEWS (91%); TICKET SALES (91%); MOVIE REVENUES (90%); CHRISTMAS (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); THEATER & DRAMA (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MOVIE THEATERS (75%); TRENDS (74%); RELIGION (73%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); MUSIC (68%); THEATER (58%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (88%); KATIE HOLMES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



909 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: The 2012 Sidney Awards, Part II

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Sixty years ago, scientists believed that schizophrenia was caused by emotional conflict with the patient's parents. A cold mother would deliver conflicting messages of hope and rejection and drive her child into madness.
Then scientists rejected that cruel model and concluded that schizophrenia was a brain disease. But the drugs that treated schizophrenia as a biological disorder did not work well. Now, as Tanya Marie Luhrmann notes in an essay, ''Beyond the Brain'' in The Wilson Quarterly, that model has failed, too.
Schizophrenia is seen as the result of a complex interaction of unrelated causes: myriad genes, a mother's illness during pregnancy, childhood stress, cultural factors and many other things. Researchers have been driven to this conclusion, in part because this mental illness shows up differently, at different rates, in different cultures. 
Patients in India, for example, do much better than patients in the West. Indian society regards mental illness differently. Indian doctors, for example, tell patients they are perfectly well, but should take certain pills to rebuild their strength. This deception seems to work.
Luhrmann's article wins a Sidney Award as one of the best essays of the year. The award was designed to encourage people to step back at this time of the year and look at the big picture. Walter Russell Mead's ''The Once and Future Liberalism'' in The American Interest certainly encourages that.
Mead argues that our current political argument is a conflict between two versions of liberalism, the small state Manchester liberalism of the 1890s (the current doctrine of the Republican Party) and the big organization managerial state liberalism of the 1950s (the current doctrine of the Democratic Party).
Both are obsolete. He spends much of his essay describing how the latest version of liberalism, which was great in its day, is breaking down. It rested on economic and demographic foundations that no longer exist.
Mead says it's time to gratefully say farewell to both. He doesn't offer a replacement, but persuasively asks you to think anew.
The exclamation point was not a standard feature on typewriters until the 1970s. Nobody wore blue or pink or yellow ribbons to show their emotional attachments to various causes until 1979. No state specifically allowed victim statements at sentencing hearings as late as 1978.
But all that has changed. Today we are awash in exclamation points and affiliation symbols and sentiment more generally. This transformation has been nicely analyzed by Pamela Haag in ''Death by Treacle'' in The American Scholar.
Haag writes, ''Maybe this century's culture is a culture of feeling in which the ideal citizen-feeler has the qualities of soulful transparency, audacious disclosure, and candor, and who knows the skills of whispered confession. ...'' The interesting thing, she notes, is that all this sentiment is not actually bringing people closer together.
There is a parasitic wasp that lays its eggs in the belly of an orb spider. The larva releases chemicals that alter the spider's brain so that it weaves webs in the shape of larva cocoons, instead of normal spider web patterns. The spider even weaves a specific geometric pattern to camouflage the cocoon.
This is not the only parasite that releases chemicals to change its host's thinking. The scientist Jaroslav Flegr believes parasites transmitted by cat feces have altered his brain. Kathleen McAuliffe tells his story in ''How Your Cat Is Making You Crazy'' in The Atlantic. Men infected in this way tend to wear more rumpled clothes and have fewer friends. Infected women wear nicer clothes and have more friends.
There are many more essays worthy of Sidney Awards that I want to bring to your attention, so let me just briefly list a few:
''The Thought Police'' by Paul Berman in The New Republic, on how radical Islamist thugs used intimidation to defeat Arab liberals in their struggle for the future of the Middle East.
''The Caging of America'' by Adam Gopnik in The New Yorker. One gets the sense that the inhumanity of our prisons will be regarded with disbelief by future generations. This essay surveys the scene.
''The Writing Revolution'' by Peg Tyre in The Atlantic. About a school on Staten Island that improved its academic outputs by teaching its underprivileged students the nuts and bolts of writing.
''Broken BRICs'' by Ruchir Sharma in Foreign Affairs. Everyone assumes that the rising economies of Asia and elsewhere (BRICs, Brazil, Russia, India, and China) will own the future. Sharma challenges this thesis. Emerging economies are fading. In 2011, Sharma notes, ''the difference in per capita incomes between the rich and the developing nations was back to where it was in the 1950s.''
''The Education of Dasmine Cathey'' by Brad Wolverton in The Chronicle of Higher Education. This humane article takes us into the world of one midlevel college football player, who, among other things, tried to teach himself to read.
Here are some honorable mentions, too: ''Atonement,'' by Dexter Filkins in The New Yorker, about an Iraq war veteran who seeks out the family he harmed; ''The Meme Generation,'' by Matt Labash in The Weekly Standard, about the impact of the Web's viral-content culture on America; ''In Nothing We Trust,'' by Ron Fournier and Sophie Quinton in National Journal, about how Americans are losing faith in the institutions that made this country great; ''Happyism,'' by Deirdre N. McCloskey in The New Republic, about the creepy new economics of pleasure; and, lastly, ''Not Fade Away,'' by Robert Kagan in The New Republic, about the myth of the American decline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (90%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LIBERALISM (89%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); BRAIN (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (69%); SENTENCING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



910 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 957 words

HEADLINE: Closing Loopholes Isn't Enough

BYLINE: By LEONARD E. BURMAN and JOEL B. SLEMROD. 
Leonard E. Burman, a professor of public administration at Syracuse University, and Joel B. Slemrod, a professor of economics at the University of Michigan, are the authors of ''Taxes in America: What Everyone Needs to Know.''

 BODY:
REPUBLICANS in Congress say they will do anything rather than raise tax rates. Apparently, that includes rushing headlong over the fiscal cliff and throwing the economy into a possible recession.
When, in an effort to avert the now infamous tax increases and spending cuts to take effect on Tuesday, House Speaker John A. Boehner proposed his so-called Plan B -- which would have nudged up tax rates only for those earning over $1 million a year -- rank-and-file Republicans promptly rebelled, storming their party caucus with the rhetorical equivalents of pitchforks.
One can't argue with religion -- and for some, the unwillingness to bend on marginal rates is just that. But for many politicians, the refusal to raise tax rates rests on a faulty premise. 
The Congressional Budget Office projects that if the United States follows a likely scenario in terms of demographic changes, spending and economic growth through 2035, America's coffers may fall short by as much as $2 trillion a year in current dollars. With a predicted gap so large, any deal to restore the country's fiscal balance must include at least some new revenue.
But even those Republicans who acknowledge that additional tax dollars will be necessary say we can get what we need without increasing a single tax rate. All we have to do is close up some ''loopholes'' and ''broaden the base''! We can keep in place the Bush-era tax cuts, they say, and make up any lost revenue simply by eliminating various deductions, exclusions and credits.
At first glance, the idea seems great. Who wouldn't want to root out the tax evaders and finaglers who are shirking the shared burden? And the idea of a broader base of taxpayers paying lower rates across the board sounds so much simpler and fairer for every citizen.
But closing loopholes is neither sufficient to do the job nor as ''fair'' to everyone as it might seem.
There is no painless way to raise revenue, as past attempts have shown. Increased levies on corporations are ultimately passed along to shareholders, workers or customers. Raising taxes on foreign companies increases the cost of capital as businesses keep their cash overseas. Even a fix as ''obvious'' as doubling down on audits to catch tax cheaters ends up creating a burden for honest citizens caught in the snare.
Closing loopholes and purging deductions are no more exempt from the laws of tax physics than any of the above.
Both Democrats and Republicans have considered phasing out the mortgage interest deduction, and there are good economic arguments for doing that. But it might depress an already weak housing market and hit some middle-class homeowners hard.
Eliminating the charitable deduction could devastate many philanthropic organizations and the people they serve. You can go down the line with many exemptions, deductions and credits and find an unintended, and unfortunate, consequence.
Likewise, more sweeping attempts to broaden the base can end up doing more harm than good.
Most states tax only retail sales to consumers -- but some, for example, also tax sales to other businesses. This tax, called a gross receipts tax, certainly has a larger base than a retail sales tax since businesses at each stage of manufacturing, distribution and marketing end up being taxed.
Supporters of the idea say this cascading tax can be assessed at a much lower rate and still collect the same revenue over all, spreading out the pain. But it is a poorly designed tax, because it taxes products that involve many stages of production more than those produced in only one or two steps. That, in turn, encourages companies to merge to avoid paying multiple layers of tax -- whether or not that makes any business sense.
To be sure, there are constructive ways to broaden the base. There are few compelling reasons, for example, that employer-provided health insurance, which is part of compensation, should be exempt from income tax. This tax break costs around $250 billion a year and makes gold-plated health insurance more attractive to workers, which drives up health costs. Eliminating it would be a good first step in shoring up the federal budget.
We could also turn the mortgage interest deduction into a flat 15 percent tax credit and cut the maximum deductible mortgage to $500,000, which would help many homeowners who do not itemize deductions, while curtailing subsidies for high-income people who don't need help. This would raise about $40 billion in 2014, according to the nonpartisan Tax Policy Center. And we could allow a deduction for charitable contributions over 2 percent of adjusted gross income, which would save $20 billion in 2014 without discouraging most donations.
But in the end, none of these fixes will be enough to raise the revenue we need to balance the budget, begin to pay off America's debt and avoid the fiscal cliff. Nor can we cut spending enough to achieve those goals. An aging population expects the government to make good on promises for retirement support and increasingly expensive health care -- so cuts in popular programs big enough to avoid higher taxes are simply not in the cards.
That leaves us with one choice: do all of the above. Let's trim spending where we can, broaden the base where it makes the most sense and, yes, raise marginal tax rates as well. Returning tax rates to Clinton-era levels for married filers making over $250,000 a year and singles making $200,000 or more, as President Obama has proposed, would be a good start, and might provide the impetus for more serious discussions of tax and entitlement reform.
The only thing we shouldn't do is pretend any of these fixes will be painless or easy for everyone. They won't. Even in a happy, thriving democracy, someone ends up holding the bag.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY WALTER GREEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TAX FRAUD (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TAX INCENTIVES (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); CHARITIES (76%); CHARITABLE GIVING (76%); CAUCUSES (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); CHARITIES LAW (63%); PHILANTHROPY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



911 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CITY ROOM; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1081 words

HEADLINE: At Gym, Man Who Went Astray Leads Youths on Straight Path

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
On a recent night in the South Bronx, Fernando Laspina peeked out the front window of El Maestro and Juan Laporte's Boxing Gym and saw a cold, steady rain falling on the dimly lighted, rugged streets of his troubled youth.
"When I was teenager back in the early 1970s, I used to run around like crazy all along Southern Boulevard out here," said Mr. Laspina, shaking his head. "I was a leader of a street gang called the Savage Skulls. I was young and very foolish at that time, and I paid for it by going to jail."
Mr. Laspina, now 57, took a step back from the window and captured a much brighter scene in its dusty reflection: dozens of young men scattered in and around a tattered boxing ring, sparring, jabbing at speed bags and jumping rope.
"This is my dream come true," said Mr. Laspina, turning toward the stable of young boxers with a proud smile. "By keeping busy in here, they are not out there getting into the kind of trouble I got myself into when I was a kid. To have a place like this has been a goal of mine since I got out of prison, a promise I am still keeping to my mother." 
Mr. Laspina, who juggles his role as the executive director of El Maestro with his day job as an afterschool coordinator for the New York City Housing Authority, is now hailed as a hero on the same streets he once terrorized.
"I've known Fernando since the mid-1970s," said Ramon Jimenez, a lawyer and political activist who lives in the neighborhood. "In the 40-plus years I've spent in the South Bronx, I've met many politicians and many famous people, but I've never met anyone with the dedication, commitment and endless energy and refusal to be defeated like Fernando 'Ponce' Laspina - his story stands above the rest."
Mr. Laspina, one of 18 children born in Ponce, P.R. - "that's where I got my nickname," he said - was 15 years old when he and his family settled into the area, which was already crawling with street gangs.
"I couldn't speak English and I had some trouble fitting in," he said. "Before you knew it, I was getting jumped and guys were robbing what little money I had. I actually joined a gang to help protect myself."
His mother urged him to leave the Savage Skulls, and Mr. Laspina, who by then was pretty good with his fists, tried obliging her in October 1973, when he signed up to join a boxing organization run by the Police Athletic League. Later that same week, he was arrested for extortion and sent to Rikers Island.
Under the headline "5 in Bronx Youth Gangs Indicted in Merchant 'Protection' Racket," an article in The New York Times published on Oct. 19, 1973, began, "Scores of shopkeepers in the South Bronx have been terrorized by street gangs into paying 'protection' money to escape beatings, arson and robbery." The article named all five who were indicted, including, Mr. Laspina, who was 18.
"My mother was crushed, and it really hurt me to let her down like that," he said. "That's when I promised her I would never let her down again and that when my legal troubles were behind me, I was going to turn my life around."
After spending nearly a year on Rikers Island, Mr. Laspina was freed on bail while awaiting trial. After a conviction and much legal wrangling, he served another year at the Elmira Correctional Facility in Elmira, N.Y., starting in 1975. While in prison, he earned a general equivalency diploma.
Shortly after his release, Mr. Laspina joined Mr. Jimenez and a band of students and faculty members in a successful challenge to plans to shut Hostos Community College or merge it into another institution during the city's fiscal crisis.
"It was the only bilingual college in the area and it was on the brink of closing down," Mr. Laspina said.
He soon enrolled at Hostos, where he received an associate degree. He went on to Lehman College, where he received a bachelor of arts degree, and then to Buffalo State University, where he earned a master's in Latin American studies.
In 1987, he returned to Hostos and began a 10-year stretch as an adjunct lecturer in Latin American and Caribbean studies. In 1997, he began working in the Bronx for the Housing Authority, counseling on and teaching a variety of subjects to students from first grade through high school.
In 2003, Mr. Laspina founded his dream organization, which is run by volunteers.
"My mom lived long enough to see it," said Mr. Laspina, whose mother died in 2007. "She lived long enough to see me turn my life around and fulfill that promise."
El Maestro has been at its current location, 1300 Southern Boulevard, next to an abandoned lot, for two years, having moved, Mr. Laspina said, because he could no longer afford the almost $4,500 a month in rent for the old site. He now pays $3,000 a month, some of which comes out of his own pocket.
The organization's two main missions - it serves as both a cultural center and a training center - are spelled out on each side of the long, red awning above the front door. The south side of the awning, which reads "El Maestro Inc.," is a center of Puerto Rican culture and heritage named for Pedro Albizu Campos, the deceased Puerto Rican nationalist leader who was known as El Maestro (The Teacher).
The north side of the awning, which reads "Juan Laporte's Boxing Gym," is named for the former featherweight champion who was born in Guayama, P.R., and is a friend of Mr. Laspina's.
Julio Pabon, a South Bronx activist and a local businessman who ran with a street gang named the Young Lords in the 1970s, called Mr. Laspina "a good example of what the Bronx has to offer."
"Most of my friends and Ponce's friends are either dead or in jail," Mr. Pabon said. "Ponce didn't just survive; he is now helping other people survive."In the South Bronx, our schools are not the best and our role models are few and distant. We have a very high unemployment rate, one of the highest obesity rates in the country, violent crime and inadequate housing, so the deck is stacked against any young person here who is trying to make something of their life.
"Without Ponce, I can't imagine where these kids would be today."
Mr. Pabon was talking about children like Jeffrey Cuadras, an 11-year-old from the neighborhood who is learning how to box.
"I like coming here because I feel safe," said Jeffrey, lacing up a pair of gloves as he peeked out the front window of the gym. "There's nothing out there but robbers and drug dealers, and I don't want to end up like that."
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Fernando Laspina, a former gang leader, at the South Bronx gym he started as a way to give young people an alternative to the neighborhood's streets. ''To have a place like this has been a goal of mine since I got out of prison,'' Mr. Laspina, 57, said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY EARL WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Web Log

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); GANGS (75%); EXECUTIVES (71%); EXTORTION (60%); ARRESTS (60%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



912 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 857 words

HEADLINE: Stalemate in Washington Is Eroding Confidence of Consumers

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
For months, consumers have powered spending, while businesses pulled back ahead of the looming fiscal impasse in Washington. Now, as doubts grow about whether the president and Congress can reach a compromise before a year-end deadline, evidence has emerged that consumers, too, are becoming more pessimistic about the economy.
Consumer confidence in the first half of December took a sharper-than-expected dip, falling to its lowest level since August, according to a new survey released Thursday by the Conference Board. Wall Street also registered its frustration with the stalemate in Washington on Thursday, sending stocks sharply lower before recovering late in the day. 
The gloom comes despite signs the economy has been holding up recently during the rising worries -- other data released Thursday showed a healthy gain in new-home sales and a slight drop in new jobless claims. Indeed, the Conference Board's data show consumer anxiety is centered on the outlook ahead for the economy, rather than on current conditions.
''People are realizing that we may not get a compromise and they're getting nervous,'' said Guy Berger, United States economist with RBS Securities. ''It's a precarious situation. So far consumers are worried about the future. Once they start worrying about the present, we're in trouble.''
If Congress and President Obama cannot agree on a deal to cut the deficit by Jan. 1, more than $500 billion in tax increases and spending cuts are set to take effect.
Taxes have been the main sticking point -- while the president favors eliminating Bush-era tax cuts on incomes over $250,000 and preserving current rates for lower incomes, many Republicans have been wary of supporting any tax increase. Republicans have been pushing for deeper spending cuts, something many Democrats have resisted.
Both sides remained dug in, and at midday Thursday Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the Democratic majority leader, said he thought it was unlikely a compromise would be reached before Jan. 1.
With Wall Street tracking every turn of negotiations in Washington, shares tumbled after Mr. Reid's remarks but recovered later in the day after reports the House would reconvene Sunday and take up the issue. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 1.73 points, to 1,418.10, while the Dow Jones industrial average sank 18.28 points, to 13,096.31
While an eventual deal that blunts part of the effect is expected in the coming weeks, some fallout from missing the Tuesday deadline will be felt right away -- including a two percentage point increase in payroll taxes as well as the end of unemployment benefits for more than two million Americans. All that has increased the uncertainty for individuals, who until recently had shrugged off the fiscal standoff in Washington.
''Expectations have certainly shifted and it seems like consumer attitudes have caught up with business confidence,'' said Michael Griffin, executive director at Corporate Executive Board, a member-based advisory firm. Surveys by the group have shown business sentiment weakening for three consecutive quarters, he said.
Consumers have had reasons to be more optimistic lately. After a deep decline caused by the housing bubble, home prices have begun to recover in many parts of the country. And the job market has been showing signs of improvement, with unemployment hitting a four-year low of 7.7 percent in November.
On Thursday, the Labor Department reported that initial claims last week for state unemployment benefits fell by 12,000, to a seasonally adjusted level of 350,000. Figures for jobless claims have been volatile since Hurricane Sandy, but the four-week moving average for new unemployment claims now stands at its lowest point in nearly five years. Sales of new single-family homes in November rose 4.4 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 377,000, according to the Commerce Department.
By contrast, the Conference Board's consumer confidence index fell to 65.1 in December from 71.5 in November. That was much sharper than the 1.5 point drop economists had been expecting. The board's expectations index was off more sharply, sinking to 66.5 from 80.9 in November.
Several economists said the current situation recalls the standoff over raising the federal debt ceiling in the summer of 2011. In that case, too, consumer confidence eroded as both sides in Washington refused to blink until the last moment, but experts added the consequences were likely to be longer-lasting this time because the changes in tax policy affect individuals directly.
''In a lot of ways, this is a replay of the summer of 2011,'' Mr. Berger said. ''But it's more serious this time.''
The longer the stalemate continues, the deeper the damage, economists said.
''It takes a while for consumer confidence to go up but it takes just a short while for consumer confidence to go down,'' said Chris G. Christopher Jr., senior principal economist at IHS Global Insight. ''The fiscal cliff has put a damper on things, and retailers are going to feel it in December.''
''As we get closer to Jan. 1, and the political rhetoric gets ramped up, people get worried,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Consumers have been buying at stores like Macy's, but are growing pessimistic. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW BURTON/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
A home for sale in South Barrington, Ill. Sales of new single-family homes rose in November as did prices in much of the nation. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT OLSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B5) CHARTS: Consumer Confidence: Index measures attitudes toward the economy, 1985 = 100. (Source: The Conference Board)
New-Home Sales: Annual pace of new private homes sold during the month, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Commerce Department)
Jobless Claims: Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. (Source: Labor Department, via Bloomberg)
 Prices of New Homes: Median price for new homes. (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NEW HOME SALES (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); CORPORATE TAX (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); HARRY REID (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



913 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1257 words

HEADLINE: E.P.A. Chief Set to Leave; Term Fell Shy Of Early Hope

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER

 BODY:
Lisa P. Jackson is stepping down as administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency after a four-year tenure that began with high hopes of sweeping action to address climate change and other environmental ills but ended with a series of rear-guard actions to defend the agency against challenges from industry, Republicans in Congress and, at times, the Obama White House.
Ms. Jackson, 50, told President Obama shortly after his re-election in November that she wanted to leave the administration early next year. She informed the E.P.A. staff of her decision on Thursday morning and issued a brief statement saying that she was confident ''the ship is sailing in the right direction.''
She has not said what she intends to do after leaving government, and no successor was immediately named, although it is expected that Robert Perciasepe, the E.P.A. deputy administrator, will take over at least temporarily. 
Ms. Jackson's departure comes as many in the environmental movement are questioning Mr. Obama's commitment to dealing with climate change and other environmental problems. After his re-election, and a campaign in which global warming was barely mentioned by either candidate, Mr. Obama said that his first priority would be jobs and the economy and that he intended only to foster a ''conversation'' on climate change in the coming months.
That ambivalence is a far cry from the hopes that accompanied his early months in office, when he identified climate change as one of humanity's defining challenges. Mr. Obama put the White House's full lobbying power behind a House cap-and-trade bill that would have limited climate-altering emissions and brought profound changes in how the nation produces and consumes energy.
But after the effort stalled in the Senate, the administration abandoned broad-scale climate change efforts, instead focusing on smaller regulatory actions largely though the Clean Air Act.
White House and E.P.A. officials said that Ms. Jackson's decision to leave government was her own and that the timing had been negotiated with the White House.
Mr. Obama praised her in a statement, calling her ''an important part of my team.''
''Over the last four years, Lisa Jackson has shown an unwavering commitment to the health of our families and our children,'' the president said. ''Under her leadership, the E.P.A. has taken sensible and important steps to protect the air we breathe and the water we drink, including implementing the first national standard for harmful mercury pollution, taking important action to combat climate change under the Clean Air Act, and playing a key role in establishing historic fuel economy standards that will save the average American family thousands of dollars at the pump, while also slashing carbon pollution.''
After Republicans took control of the House in 2010, Ms. Jackson became a favored target of the new Republican majority's aversion to what it termed ''job-killing regulations.'' One coal industry official accused her of waging ''regulatory jihad,'' and she was summoned to testify before hostile House committees dozens of times in 2011. She was frequently subjected to harsh questioning that at times bordered on the disrespectful.
Ms. Jackson, the first African-American to head the E.P.A., brushed off that treatment as part of the territory and a reflection of the new partisan reality in Washington. More difficult for her was the occasional lack of support from environmental groups, who saw every compromise as a betrayal, and from the White House, which was trying to balance worries about the economy and the president's re-election campaign against the perceived costs of tough environmental policies.
The White House rejected or scaled back a number of proposed new regulations from the environmental agency, most notably the withdrawal of a proposed new standard for ozone pollution that Ms. Jackson sought in the summer of 2011. Mr. Obama rejected the proposal on the grounds that it would be too costly for industry and local government to comply with at a time of continuing economic distress. Other new rules, including those for emissions from industrial boilers and cement factories, were either watered down or their introduction delayed after complaints from lawmakers, lobbyists and businesses.
Despite a number of disappointments, however, Ms. Jackson has achieved some notable firsts, including the finding that carbon dioxide and five other gases that contribute to global warming meet the definition of pollutants under the Clean Air Act. That so-called endangerment finding, which has survived federal court challenges from industry, allowed the agency to negotiate strict new emissions standards for cars and light trucks, the first time the federal government has limited global warming pollution.
The new vehicle standards will eliminate billions of tons of carbon dioxide emissions and double the fuel efficiency of the American light-duty transportation fleet over the next decade.
The finding also formed the basis of the first steps toward regulating greenhouse gas emissions from new power plants and, possibly, toward requiring existing ones to reduce global warming pollution. The rule governing new power plants in effect bans the construction of new coal-fired power plants unless they capture carbon dioxide emissions, a technology so far unproven on a commercial scale.
The E.P.A. under Ms. Jackson also established the first standards for emissions of mercury, arsenic and other airborne toxins from power plants, and finalized a rule reducing industrial pollution that crosses state borders. The latter rule was struck down by a federal court and is under appeal.
Ms. Jackson, a native of New Orleans who holds chemical engineering degrees from Tulane and Princeton, has spent most of her professional career at the E.P.A. She led the Department of Environmental Protection in New Jersey from 2006 to 2008 under Gov. Jon S. Corzine, who named her his chief of staff in late 2008, shortly before Mr. Obama chose her to head the federal environmental agency.
This month, the E.P.A.'s inspector general, prodded by Republicans in Congress, announced that he was opening an inquiry into Ms. Jackson's use of a secondary e-mail account to conduct business inside the agency. Ms. Jackson has said that she used the second account because her public e-mail address was widely known and that her e-mail alias -- ''Richard Windsor'' -- derived from the name of her dog and her former home in Windsor Township, N.J.
It is not known when the inquiry will be completed.
In a brief interview on Wednesday evening, Ms. Jackson said that she hoped to decompress after four intense years running the E.P.A., which has 17,000 employees and an $8 billion annual budget. She said she would probably do some consulting and public speaking but has not begun looking for a new job. She is thought to be a candidate for the presidency of Princeton.
Asked what she considered most important in her tenure, Ms. Jackson mentioned the endangerment finding, because it was the first time that the federal government began to address climate change. She also said that although it received little notice during her tenure, she was proud of her role in expanding the environmental agenda to include voices that have been little heard, including low-income communities, Native Alaskans and American Indian tribes.
''Before me,'' she said, ''some people said that African-Americans don't care about the environment. I don't think that will ever be the case again.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Lisa P. Jackson of the E.P.A. with President Obama last January. She is stepping down after four years leading the agency. (POOL PHOTO BY MIKE THEILER) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); AIR QUALITY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); FAMILY (87%); EMISSIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); LOBBYING (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); RESIGNATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); AIR POLLUTION (75%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (64%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); LISA P JACKSON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



914 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: Time to Confront Climate Change

 BODY:
Four years ago, in sharp contrast to the torpor and denial of the George W. Bush years, President Obama described climate change as one of humanity's most pressing challenges and pledged an all-out effort to pass a cap-and-trade bill limiting greenhouse gas emissions.
Then came one roadblock after another. Congress did not pass a climate bill, cap-and-trade became a dirty word, and, with the 2012 elections approaching, climate change disappeared from the president's vocabulary. He spoke about green jobs and clean energy but not about why these were necessary. In the immediate aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, he spoke only obliquely about the threat of rising seas and extreme weather events, both of which scientists have linked to a warming climate. 
Since his re-election, Mr. Obama has agreed to foster a ''conversation'' on climate change and an ''education process'' about long-term steps to address it. He needs to do a good deal more than that. Intellectually, Mr. Obama grasps the problem as well as anyone. The question is whether he will bring the powers of the presidency to bear on the problem.
Enlisting market forces in the fight against global warming by putting a price on carbon -- through cap-and-trade or a direct tax -- seems out of the question for this Congress. But there are weapons at Mr. Obama's disposal that do not require Congressional approval and could go a long way to reducing emissions and reasserting America's global leadership.
One imperative is to make sure that natural gas -- which this nation has in abundance and which emits only half the carbon as coal -- can be extracted without risk to drinking water or the atmosphere. This may require national legislation to replace the often porous state regulations. Another imperative is to invest not only in familiar alternative energy sources like wind and solar power, but also in basic research, next-generation nuclear plants and experimental technologies that could smooth the path to a low-carbon economy.
Mr. Obama's most promising near-term strategy may be to invoke the Environmental Protection Agency's authority under the Clean Air Act to limit emissions from stationary sources, chiefly power plants.
The agency has already taken a step in that direction by proposing strict emission standards for new power plants that virtually ensure that no new coal-fired plants will be built unless they capture their carbon emissions, which would require employing new technologies that have not been proved on a commercial scale. But that leaves the bigger problem of what to do with existing coal-fired power plants, which still generate roughly 40 percent of the nation's power and obviously cannot be shut down quickly or by fiat.
The Natural Resources Defense Council recently proposed an innovative scheme that would set overall emissions targets but let the individual states -- and the utilities that operate in them -- figure out how to meet them by making their boilers more efficient, switching to cleaner fuels or by subsidizing energy efficiency and encouraging reduced consumption by individuals and businesses.
Any such regulations are likely to be strongly opposed by industry and will require real persistence on the administration's part. If Mr. Obama takes this approach, he will certainly need a determined leader at E.P.A. to devise and carry out the rules. Lisa Jackson, the E.P.A. administrator who on Thursday announced her resignation after four productive years in one of the federal government's most thankless jobs, was just such a leader.
She suffered setbacks -- most notably the White House's regrettable decision to overrule her science-based proposal to update national health standards for ozone, or smog. But she accomplished much, including tougher standards for power plant emissions of mercury and other air toxics, new health standards for soot, and, most important, her agency's finding that carbon dioxide and five other gases that contribute to global warming constituted a danger to public health and could thus be regulated under the Clean Air Act.
That ruling, known as the endangerment finding, made possible the administration's historic new emissions standards for cars and light trucks. It also provided the basis for the first steps toward regulating emissions from new power plants, and, possibly, further steps requiring existing plants to reduce global warming pollution.
In 2009, at the climate summit meeting in Copenhagen, Mr. Obama pledged to reduce this country's greenhouse gas emissions by 17 percent below 2005 levels by 2020. This seemed an impossible goal once Congress rejected the cap-and-trade bill. But the increased use of cheap natural gas, the new fuel standards, the mercury rules and other factors have already put this country on track for a 10 percent reduction by 2020.
By some estimates, reaching the 17 percent goal is well within Mr. Obama's grasp. He has the means at hand to seize it.
This is part of a continuing series on what President Obama and Congress should tackle in the next four years. Other editorials are at nytimes.com/secondterm.
The Second Term: This is part of a continuing series on what President Obama and Congress should tackle in the next four years. Other editorials are at nytimes.com/secondterm.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); POWER PLANTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WEATHER (78%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (77%); WIND ENERGY (75%); SOLAR ENERGY (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (74%); SCIENCE NEWS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); TROPICAL STORMS (69%); HURRICANE SANDY (69%); APPROVALS (64%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (61%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (57%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



915 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 467 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Leader Fires Woman From Cabinet

BYLINE: By RICK GLADSTONE

 BODY:
Iran's president on Thursday dismissed his health minister, the only woman to serve in the cabinet since the 1979 Islamic Revolution, after she publicly criticized the government's response to acute shortages of medicine imports, an indirect consequence of the Western sanctions imposed on the country. 
Accounts in the state-run news media of the dismissal of the minister, Marzieh Vahid-Dastjerdi, did not provide an explanation for it. Iran's Press TV Web site said President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad had appointed a caretaker health minister, Mohammad Hassan Tariqat-Monfared, and had told him in a presidential decree that the reduction of people's health care expenses was among ''the main priorities of this important ministry.''
Dr. Vahid-Dastjerdi, a gynecologist, was appointed in 2009 and is considered an advocate of women's rights in Iranian society. She spoke out last month, apparently angering the president, by saying that an allocation in the budget of foreign currency needed to purchase medicines abroad was inadequate.
''I have heard that luxury cars have been imported with subsidized dollars, but I don't know what happened to the dollars that were supposed to be allocated for importing medicine,'' Dr. Vahid-Dastjerdi said on state television, according to a translation of her remarks reported by Reuters.
Absent such an allocation, she said, it was necessary to impose a large increase in the price of medicines, which would add to the inflationary pressures already afflicting the economy because of a plunge in value this year of the Iranian currency, the rial. Mr. Ahmadinejad opposed the price increase.
Many economists have attributed the rial's depreciation to Iran's increased isolation, a consequence of the penalties imposed by the United States and European Union to pressure Iran to stop enriching uranium for its disputed nuclear energy program. Some of Mr. Ahmadinejad's critics in Iran have also blamed what they call his economic mismanagement for the currency problems.
The medicine shortage in Iran has become an urgent problem because many Western-made drugs are increasingly hard to obtain. Under the sanctions, a broad Western ban on many financial transactions with Iran has dissuaded many foreign companies from doing business with the country, even though medicines are among items exempted from the sanctions.
Recently, the president of the Iranian Academy of Medical Sciences, Seyed Alireza Marandi, bitterly complained about the medical impact of the sanctions in a letter to Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general. Dr. Marandi called the sanctions brutal measures that had increased mortality rates ''as a result of the unavailability of essential drugs and shortages of medical supplies and equipment,'' according to a report by the Fars News Agency.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); DRUG SHORTAGES (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (79%); WOMEN (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (77%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (77%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); BUDGETS (74%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); RELIGION (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (72%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); INFLATION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (67%); CURRENCIES (67%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (62%); MOTOR VEHICLES (52%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (79%); BAN KI-MOON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (53%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



916 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1452 words

HEADLINE: Carbon Taxes Make Ireland Even Greener

BYLINE: By ELISABETH ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
DUBLIN -- Over the last three years, with its economy in tatters, Ireland embraced a novel strategy to help reduce its staggering deficit: charging households and businesses for the environmental damage they cause.
The government imposed taxes on most of the fossil fuels used by homes, offices, vehicles and farms, based on each fuel's carbon dioxide emissions, a move that immediately drove up prices for oil, natural gas and kerosene. Household trash is weighed at the curb, and residents are billed for anything that is not being recycled.
The Irish now pay purchase taxes on new cars and yearly registration fees that rise steeply in proportion to the vehicle's emissions.
Environmentally and economically, the new taxes have delivered results. Long one of Europe's highest per-capita producers of greenhouse gases, with levels nearing those of the United States, Ireland has seen its emissions drop more than 15 percent since 2008. 
Although much of that decline can be attributed to a recession, changes in behavior also played a major role, experts say, noting that the country's emissions dropped 6.7 percent in 2011 even as the economy grew slightly.
''We are not saints like those Scandinavians -- we were lapping up fossil fuels, buying bigger cars and homes, very American,'' said Eamon Ryan, who was Ireland's energy minister from 2007 to 2011. ''We just set up a price signal that raised significant revenue and changed behavior. Now, we're smashing through the environmental targets we set for ourselves.''
By contrast, carbon taxes are viewed as politically toxic in the United States. Republican leaders in Congress have pledged to block any proposal for such a tax, and President Obama has not advocated one, although the idea has drawn support from economists of varying ideologies.
Yet when the Irish were faced with new environmental taxes, they quickly shifted to greener fuels and cars and began recycling with fervor. Automakers like Mercedes found ways to make powerful cars with an emissions rating as low as tinier Nissans. With less trash, landfills closed. And as fossil fuels became more costly, renewable energy sources became more competitive, allowing Ireland's wind power industry to thrive.
Even more significantly, revenue from environmental taxes has played a crucial role in helping Ireland reduce a daunting deficit by several billion euros each year.
The three-year-old carbon tax has raised nearly one billion euros ($1.3 billion) over all, including 400 million euros in 2012. That provided the Irish government with 25 percent of the 1.6 billion euros in new tax revenue it needed to narrow its budget gap this year and avert a rise in income tax rates.
The International Monetary Fund, which oversees the rescue plan, recently suggested that Ireland should ''expand the well-designed carbon tax'' and its automobile taxes to generate even more money.
Although first proposed by the Green Party, the environmental taxes enjoy the support of all major political parties ''because it puts a lot of money on the table,'' said Frank Convery, an economist at University College Dublin. The bailout plan for 2013 requires Ireland to embrace a mix of new tax revenues and spending cuts.
Not everyone is happy. The prices of basic commodities like gasoline and heating oil have risen 5 to 10 percent. This is particularly hard on the poor, although the government has provided subsidies for low-income families to better insulate homes, for example. And industries complain that the higher prices have made it harder for them to compete outside Ireland.
''Prices just keep going up, and a lot of people think it's a scam,'' said Imelda Lyons, 45, as she filled her car at a gas station here. ''You call it a carbon tax, but what good is being done with it to help the environment?''
The coalition government that enacted the taxes was voted out of office last year. ''Just imagine President Obama saying in the debate, 'I've got this great idea, but it's going to increase your gasoline price,' '' said Mr. Ryan, who lost his seat in the last election and now leads the Green Party. ''People didn't exactly cheer us on.''
A recent report estimated that a modest carbon tax in the United States that increased incrementally over time could generate about $1.25 trillion in revenue from 2012 to 2022, reducing the 10-year deficit by 50 percent, based on projections from the Congressional Budget Office.
''I think most economists -- on the right and the left -- think a carbon tax is a good idea,'' said Aparna Mathur, a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute, a conservative research group that held a daylong seminar on carbon taxes in November. Some economists estimate that a carbon tax could raise $400 billion annually in the United States, she said. But the issue remains a nonstarter in the American political arena. even though Gilbert Metcalf, the Obama administration's deputy assistant Treasury secretary for environment and energy, long promoted carbon taxes as a Tufts University economist.
The Competitive Enterprise Institute, a conservative advocacy group, has even filed a Freedom of Information suit seeking the release of Treasury Department e-mails containing the word ''carbon'' to make sure that nothing is in the works. Like many other economists, Dr. Metcalf has argued that carbon taxation is preferable to government regulation or cap-and-trade systems because it sets a straightforward price on greenhouse gas emissions and is relatively hard to evade.
Although carbon taxes in some ways disproportionately affect the poor -- who are less able to buy new, more efficient cars, for example -- such taxes do heavily penalize the wealthy, who consume far more. As with ''sin taxes'' on cigarettes, the taxes also alleviate some of the societal costs of pollution.
For several years, the European Commission has encouraged debt-ridden members of the European Union to embrace environmental taxes, saying that its economists have concluded they have ''a less detrimental macroeconomic impact'' than new income taxes or corporate taxes.
''Europeans don't like taxes either,'' said Connie Hedegaard, the European commissioner for climate action. ''But this is good for the environment, and also good for our competitiveness.''
Some of Europe's strongest economies, like Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands, have taxed carbon dioxide emissions since the early 1990s, and Japan and Australia have introduced them more recently.
Ireland took the plunge after its economy collapsed in 2008 as a result of loose credit policies that created a real estate bubble; in one year, tax revenues fell 25 percent. With a huge bailout in 2010 by the European Union and the International Monetary Fund, Ireland's deficit soared to 11.9 percent of its gross domestic product, or over 30 percent with all loans factored in.
The environmental taxes work in concert with austerity measures like reduced welfare payments and higher fees for health care that are expected to save 2.2 billion euros this year. The carbon tax is levied on fossil fuels when they enter the country and is then passed on to consumers at the point of purchase. The automobile sales tax, which ranges from 14 to 36 percent of a car's market price depending on its emissions, is simply folded into the sticker price.
That sent manufacturers racing to reduce emissions. Automakers like Mercedes and Volvo began making cars with high-efficiency diesel engines that shut off rather than idle when they stop, for example. ''For manufacturers it's all, 'How low you can get?' '' said Donal Duggan, a brand manager at an MSL showroom near central Dublin.
Other emissions taxes on cars, including the annual car registration fee, or road tax, are billed directly to customers, potentially adding thousands to annual operating costs. Ninety percent of new car sales last year were in the two lowest-emission tiers.
The taxes on garbage had an immediate impact. In Dun Laoghaire Rathdown County in southeastern Dublin, each home's ''black bin'' for garbage headed to the landfill is weighed at pickup to calculate quarterly charges. Green bins for recyclables are emptied free of charge.
''There was a big furor initially, but now everything I throw out, I think, 'How could I recycle this?' '' said Tara Brown, a mother of three.
Of course, new environmental taxes bring new pain. Gas, always expensive in Europe, sells here for about $8 a gallon, around 20 percent more than in 2009 because of tightening market supplies and the new tax.
Still, Dr. Convery, the economist, is encouraging the government to raise carbon tax rates for 2013, declaring, ''You don't want to waste a good crisis to do what we should be doing anyway.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A Nissan electric car being recharged outside the Windsor Airside Nissan dealership in Dublin. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DEREK SPEIRS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EURO (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); WIND ENERGY (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); LANDFILLS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); TAX INCREASES (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (70%); AUTOMAKERS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (68%); INCOME TAX (60%); WIND POWER PLANTS (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBLIN, IRELAND (90%) IRELAND (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



917 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: Bookstore Closings Seen as an Opening For Many Libraries

BYLINE: By KAREN ANN CULLOTTA

 BODY:
At the bustling public library in Arlington Heights, Ill., requests by three patrons to place any title on hold prompt a savvy computer tracking system to order an additional copy of the coveted item. That policy was intended to eliminate the frustration of long waits to check out best sellers and other popular books. But it has had some unintended consequences, too: the library's shelves are now stocked with 36 copies of ''Fifty Shades of Grey.''
Of course, librarians acknowledge that when patrons' passion for the sexy series lacking in literary merit cools in a year or two, the majority of volumes in the ''Fifty Shades'' trilogy will probably be plucked from the shelves and sold at the Friends of the Library's used-book sales, alongside other poorly circulated, donated and out-of-date materials. 
''A library has limited shelf space, so you almost have to think of it as a store, and stock it with the things that people want,'' said Jason Kuhl, the executive director of the Arlington Heights Memorial Library. Renovations will turn part of the library's first floor into an area resembling a bookshop that officials are calling the Marketplace, with cozy seating, vending machines and, above all, an abundance of best sellers.
As librarians across the nation struggle with the task of redefining their roles and responsibilities in a digital age, many public libraries are seeing an opportunity to fill the void created by the loss of traditional bookstores. They are increasingly adapting their collections and services based on the demands of library patrons, whom they now call customers.
Today's libraries are reinventing themselves as vibrant town squares, showcasing the latest best sellers, lending Kindles loaded with e-books, and offering grass-roots technology training centers. Faced with the need to compete for shrinking municipal finances, libraries are determined to prove they can respond as quickly to the needs of the taxpayers as the police and fire department can.
''I think public libraries used to seem intimidating to many people, but today, they are becoming much more user-friendly, and are no longer these big, impersonal mausoleums,'' said Jeannette Woodward, a former librarian and author of ''Creating the Customer-Driven Library: Building on the Bookstore Model.''
''Public libraries tread a fine line,'' Ms. Woodward said. ''They want to make people happy, and get them in the habit of coming into the library for popular best sellers, even if some of it might be considered junk. But libraries also understand the need for providing good information, which often can only be found at the library.''
Cheryl Hurley, the president of the Library of America, a nonprofit publisher in New York ''dedicated to preserving America's best and most significant writing,'' said the trend of libraries that cater to the public's demand for best sellers is not surprising, especially given the ravages of the recession on public budgets.
Still, Ms. Hurley remains confident that libraries will never relinquish their responsibility to also provide patrons with the opportunity to discover literary works of merit, be it the classics, or more recent fiction from novelists like Philip Roth, whose work is both critically acclaimed and immensely popular.
''The political ramifications for libraries today can result in driving the collection more and more from what the people want, rather than libraries shaping the tastes of the readers,'' Ms. Hurley said. ''But one of the joys of visiting the public library is the serendipity of discovering another book, even though you were actually looking for that best seller that you thought you wanted.''
''It's all about balancing the library's mission and its marketing, and that is always a tricky dance,'' she added.
While print books, both fiction and nonfiction, still make up the bulk of most library collections -- e-books amount to to less than 2 percent of many collections in part because some publishers limit their availability at libraries -- building renovation plans rarely include expanding shelf space for print products. Instead, many libraries are culling their collections and adapting floor plans to accommodate technology training programs, as well as mini-conference rooms that offer private, quiet spaces frequently requested by self-employed consultants meeting with clients, as well as teenagers needing space to huddle over group projects.
Though an increase in book weeding these days -- a practice long known in library parlance as deselection -- might be troubling to some bibliophiles, library officials say, many books enjoy a happy life after being sold.
A recent visit to the Friends of the Public Library of Cincinnati and Hamilton County Warehouse Sale proved to be not unlike wandering into a reader's nirvana for Jeff Borden, 61. A writer and adjunct professor from Chicago, Mr. Borden said he and his wife, Johanna Brandon, left the November sale with shopping bags brimming with an eclectic and bargain-priced assortment of fiction and nonfiction, including the noir novel ''The Leopard,'' by Jo Nesbo, and ''Go Down Together: The True, Untold Story of Bonnie and Clyde'' by Jeff Guinn.
''The books are piling up all over the house,'' said Mr. Borden, who estimated that the couple spent about $50, money that officials said will be given to the library system to finance programs including its children's story time.
''Great fiction is still being written, as well as rotten fiction,'' Mr. Borden added. ''To my way of thinking, you need to get them in the door of the library first, and if someone's search for 'Shades of Grey' leads them to read D. H. Lawrence, well, that's not a bad deal.''
Gretchen Caserotti, the assistant director for public services at the public library in Darien, Conn., said, ''We are terrifically excited about the sea change at libraries, and rethinking our model in a new world.''
The Darien library has a three-requests policy similar to the one in Arlington Heights.
''The library should be as they say, a third place -- you have home, work or school, and then you come to the library because it is the center and heart of the community,'' Ms. Caserotti said. ''Our staff is 100 percent committed to hospitality, customer service and welcoming people to the library as if they were visiting our home. We need to remember it is their library, not ours, and they are paying for it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Used book sales benefit the Cincinnati Public Library and attract readers like Vicki Culler, above. Jan Eischen, below right, a volunteer, was on sorting duty. (A14)
 Libraries like Cincinnati's are finding that the books they must discard bring in bargain hunters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TYLER BISSMEYER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC LIBRARIES (91%); LIBRARIES (91%); BOOKSTORES (90%); LIBRARIANS (89%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (76%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (76%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); CITY LIFE (63%); CITIES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



918 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Shares Dip and Rise With Fiscal Moves

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Stocks fell for a fourth day on Thursday, but recovered most of their losses after the House, in the barest sign of progress, said it would come back to work on the fiscal crisis this weekend.
It was a ragged session for stocks, with shares falling more than 1 percent after the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, warned that a deal was unlikely before the deadline, only to rebound on news that the House would reconvene Sunday, a day before the Dec. 31 deadline when tax increases and federal spending cuts would be mandated.
''There's no conviction in the move or the overall market, based on the across-the-board reduction we've seen in volume,'' said Joseph Cangemi, managing director at ConvergEx Group, in New York. ''But there will be continued weakness until there's sustained positive direction coming from our leaders.'' 
The market has been prone to quick reactions to headlines and those moves have sometimes seemed more pronounced because of reduced trading volume. About 5.12 billion shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange, the Nasdaq and the NYSE MKT, formerly known as NYSE Amex, well below the daily average this year of about 6.48 billion shares.
Investors are looking for any hint that lawmakers will avert the $600 billion in tax increase and spending cuts that are scheduled to take effect next week and that could push the nation's economy into recession.
''Markets turned around in a heartbeat, as the House session is the first announcement of anything getting done,'' said Randy Bateman, chief investment officer of Huntington Asset Management, in Columbus, Ohio, which oversees $14.5 billion in assets. ''I'm not convinced it will result in a deal, but you could get enough concessions by both parties to at least avoid the immediacy of going over the cliff.''
In a sign of the anxiety, the CBOE Volatility Index, or VIX, rose above 20 for the first time since July, suggesting rising worries, but ended down 0.4 percent as the stock market rebounded.
Stocks in the materials and the financial sectors, which are more vulnerable to the economy's performance, bore the brunt of the selling before recovering. Shares of Bank of America fell 0.6 percent to $11.47 while Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold fell 0.7 percent to $33.68.
Some of 2012's biggest gainers bucked the broader trend and rallied, a sign of year-end ''window dressing.'' Expedia, the online travel agency, was the top percentage gainer in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, climbing 4.1 percent to $60.30. The price of its stock has doubled this year.
The Dow Jones industrial average slipped 18.28 points, or 0.14 percent, to 13,096.31 at the close. The S.& P. declined 1.73 points, or 0.12 percent, to 1,418.10. The Nasdaq composite index fell 4.25 points, or 0.14 percent, to close at 2,985.91.
The Marvell Technology Group, the chip maker, fell 3.5 percent to $7.14 after it said it would seek to overturn a jury's finding of patent infringement. The stock fell more than 10 percent in the previous session after a jury found that Marvell had infringed patents held by Carnegie Mellon University and ordered the company to pay $1.17 billion in damages.
The four-day decline was the S.& P. 500's longest losing streak in three months. The index has lost 1.8 percent over the period as investors grappled with the possibility that a budget deal might not be reached until next year.
President Obama arrived back in Washington from Hawaii to restart stalled negotiations with Congress. The House speaker, John A. Boehner, and other Republican leaders were to hold a conference call with other Republican lawmakers. The expectation was that lawmakers would be told to get back to Washington quickly if the Senate passed a bill.
The Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, announced the first of a series of measures that should push back the date when the federal government would hit its legal borrowing authority, a limit known as the debt ceiling, by about two months.
Economic data seemed to confirm worries about the impact of the budget impasse on the economy.
The Conference Board, an industry group, said its index of consumer confidence in December fell to 65.1 as the budget crisis restrained growing optimism about the economy. The gauge fell more than expected from 71.5 in November.
Interest rates were lower. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 5/32, to 99 1/32 and the yield fell to 1.73 percent from 1.75 percent late Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); TRENDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TAX LAW (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ONLINE TRAVEL BOOKINGS (60%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%)

COMPANY: CONVERGEX INC (70%); FREEPORT-MCMORAN COPPER & GOLD INC (62%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); NYSE MKT LLC (55%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (53%); CBOE HOLDINGS INC (52%)

TICKER: FCX (NYSE) (62%); BAC (NYSE) (53%); BAC (LSE) (53%); 8648 (TSE) (53%); CBOE (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (70%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (70%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (70%); NAICS331410 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT ALUMINUM) SMELTING & REFINING (62%); NAICS213114 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR METAL MINING (62%); NAICS212234 COPPER ORE & NICKEL ORE MINING (62%); NAICS212222 SILVER ORE MINING (62%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (62%); SIC3341 SECONDARY SMELTING & REFINING OF NONFERROUS METALS (62%); SIC3331 PRIMARY SMELTING & REFINING OF COPPER (62%); SIC1081 METAL MINING SERVICES (62%); SIC1044 SILVER ORES (62%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (62%); SIC1021 COPPER ORES (62%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: HARRY REID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (68%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



919 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; HIGH AND LOW FINANCE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Reading Pessimism In the Market For Bonds

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
''Certificates of Confiscation.''
Three decades ago, that was what some people said bonds really were. The interest the bond paid would not be enough, they said, to offset the declining value of dollars as inflation added up. The ''real'' -- after-inflation -- bond yield would be negative.
That was just as the great bull market in bonds began. Bonds were great investments, and the bond bears turned out to have been dead wrong.
Now we have come full circle. The government is selling bonds that are absolutely, positively guaranteed to not pay enough to offset inflation over the coming years. It is even possible that someone who bought a new Treasury security that will be issued on Monday will end up getting fewer dollars back than he or she invested -- interest and principal combined -- between now and when the bond matures in 2017. 
The securities are inflation-protected Treasury notes. If inflation ticks up significantly over the coming years, investors will get back more dollars than originally invested. But not enough to come close to keeping up with inflation. If there is no inflation, they will get back less than they invested.
When those securities were auctioned last week, buyers agreed to accept a real yield of negative 1.496 percent. It takes a lot of pessimism -- about the economy and the future of the United States -- to think an investment certain to lose money is an investment worth making.
The great bear market in bonds, both corporates and governments, lasted 35 years, from 1946 to 1981. The bull market lasted about 30 years. A new bear market almost certainly has begun.
If that is true, those seeking a little income now by going out the yield curve will come to rue the decision. They will get the promised interest, but as market interest rates rise, the price of those bonds will decline and decline and decline.
On Oct. 26, 1981, which can be dated as the bottom of the great bond bear market, the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds rose to 15.21 percent. On that date, a Treasury bond issued in 1970 and scheduled to mature in 2000 was quoted at less than 56 percent of face value. It had a coupon of 7.875 percent, but that was not deemed enough to compensate investors for the risk.
At market extremes, it is often worth analyzing what has to be true for a given investment to be a good, or bad, value. Back in 1981, you had to assume that inflation would not only remain in double digits for decades, but that it would also continue to rise, for a newly issued Treasury bond to turn out to be a bad investment. Yet many investors assumed it would be. After all, a lot of people on Wall Street in 1981 could not remember a time when bonds were good investments.
A few weeks before rates peaked, Seth Glickenhaus, an experienced bond trader and head of Glickenhaus & Company, an investment advisory firm, spoke the conventional wisdom when he said, ''Anyone who buys a bond today to hold for more than five years is out of his mind.''
Michael Gavin, the head of United States asset allocation for Barclays, pointed out this month that over the past 30 years an investor who stayed invested in American, or British, 10-year government bonds would have earned more than 5 percent a year over inflation.
''It does not require advanced market math to understand that returns like these are no longer remotely plausible,'' he wrote. ''But they say that fish don't know that they live in water -- until they are removed from it -- and we wonder if some of the many market participants whose entire professional experience has been conditioned by the financial backdrop created by the bond market rally might underestimate some consequences of its termination.''
Even if rates stay where they are for the next five years, and investors collect the interest coupons, he said, ''bonds will be transformed from wealth creators into wealth destroyers.''
Or at least they will be unless there is severe deflation. For that is the only situation that will allow today's new long-term bonds to turn into good investments.
Is that possible? To think it is likely, you pretty much have to assume that economic growth is a thing of the past in both the United States and Europe. It is not an optimistic outlook.
James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer -- and a bear on bonds for some time -- argues there are parallels between 1981 and now, at least in conventional wisdom. ''Central banks are harmless, said the bond bears in 1981; in a social democracy, inflation is ineradicable,'' he writes in the current issue of his publication. ''Central bankers are harmless, charge the bond bulls of 2012; in an overleveraged economy, inflation is unachievable.''
One reason bond yields are so low now -- at least in markets like Britain and the United States -- is the fact that after the Greek fiasco investors have come to fear default more than currency depreciation. That had led to a rush to default-proof bonds, which means bonds issued by countries that can print the currency they borrowed. (It may be that Treasuries will not always be default-proof because a Tea Party-influenced Congress will refuse to allow the government to pay its bills. But so far markets assume the politicians will not be that stupid.)
It is interesting to look at the relationship of stocks and bonds when the bond market is near extremes in valuation. Those moments tend to come when economic uncertainty is high and fears are widespread. In the past, such fears have proved to be wrong.
In 1946, there was a consensus among many economists that a new depression was likely. After all, the 1930s depression did not end until armies put unemployed people to work. Now that the war was over and armies were shrinking, would not the economy retreat again?
Bond prices turned down -- and yields up -- in the spring of 1946. Stocks sold off that fall, and it was not until 1950 that the stock market got back to where it was when the bond bear market began.
Then stocks enjoyed a phenomenal period. One reason interest rates were rising was that economic growth presented good investment opportunities. The stock market was a very good place to put money throughout the 1950s and into the mid-1960s, occasional recessions and bear markets notwithstanding.
During the last 10 or 15 years of the bond bear market, however, the stock market gyrated but went nowhere. In 1981, as the bond bear market was ending, the Dow Jones industrial average was lower than it had been 15 years earlier. The economy was in recession and optimism was hard to find. There was a consensus that the United States had lost its competitive edge and could not compete with Japan. Share prices did not hit bottom until the summer of 1982.
But in 1982 the golden age of American stock and bond markets began. For nearly two decades, both were usually good places to invest, and the United States economy did well. But the technology stock bubble's bursting in 2000 signaled an end to an era in the stock market. A share of Fidelity Magellan -- one of the most successful mutual funds of the 1980s and 1990s -- is now worth less than a share was worth 13 years ago.
As 2012 ends, pessimism is high. Some economists talk of a prolonged period without economic growth in the industrialized world, as the United States and Europe fail to compete with China and India. Investors find a bond guaranteed to lose value -- but not to lose all value -- to be worth buying.
It is no wonder that major corporations now are issuing long-term bonds even though they don't appear to have any need for the money. As economic growth picks up in coming years, those companies will appear to have been prescient. The buyers, on the other hand, will seem to have been as foolish as were those who disdained bonds 30 years ago.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: In September 1981, during a lengthy bond bear market, Wall Street was telling The New York Times that bonds were a bad investment. A bull market soon followed. (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); YIELD CURVE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); AUCTIONS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



920 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Deep Down, He Wants to Help

BYLINE: By A. O. SCOTT. 
Watch A. O. Scott with David Carr in ''The Sweet Spot,'' on culture and criticism, at nytimes.com.

 BODY:
''I'm not a bad guy,'' Steve Butler insists, and one of the reasons ''Promised Land'' works is that he's right. Played by Matt Damon (who wrote the screenplay with John Krasinski), Steve, a corporate predator who is also a true believer in his company's cause, is both the apparent villain and a magnet for the audience's sympathy.
That cause is the contentious drilling technique for natural gas known as fracking, which has caused an economic boom -- as well as considerable environmental worry -- in places that sit atop gas-rich shale. ''Promised Land,'' directed by Gus Van Sant, is an earnest attempt, sometimes effective, sometimes clumsy, to dramatize the central arguments about fracking and its impact. Issues that have been addressed in Josh Fox's documentary ''Gasland'' and in a series of articles by Ian Urbina in The New York Times crystallize in the story of Steve, a man whose ambition comes into conflict with his conscience. 
Not at first, though. What is most impressive about Steve when we first meet him is that his job is also a cause. An Iowa native who watched his hometown fade away after a nearby factory closed down, he is convinced that rural life cannot be sustained by agriculture alone.
With his co-worker Sue (Frances McDormand), he arrives in a small farming town, believing that he is offering the local landowners a lifeline. Some of them, hearing the amounts his company is offering for drilling rights to their land, are eager to sign up, but Steve runs into trouble when an old-timer (Hal Holbrook) starts raising questions about what fracking will do to the water supply, the livestock and the land itself.
And then a guy named Dustin Noble shows up. He's an environmental activist played by Mr. Krasinski, who treads the same line between awesome guy and smug jerk that he has so gracefully walked in the later seasons of ''The Office.'' Dustin is Steve's rival and mirror image, a more obnoxious and more effective version of the friendly young salesman who is charming the locals with a mixture of straight talk and transparent bluff.
Fliers and posters showing dead cattle start turning up all over town, which annoys Steve. Even worse is that Dustin seems to share Steve's interests in Alice (Rosemarie DeWitt), the pretty schoolteacher that every small town in a movie like this one must have.
It also needs a wise, almost magical geezer (that is Mr. Holbrook's job); semi-sleazy public officials; sassy waitresses; and a lot of guys in plaid flannel shirts and trucker hats. But the nice thing about this movie is that it spends most of its running time wandering away from its native clichés, rather than wallowing in them.
Mr. Van Sant's style of directing, watchful and low-key, puts character ahead of story, and the script invites the actors to be warm, funny and prickly. All of them -- perhaps most notably, Ms. McDormand and Titus Welliver, playing a cynical store owner -- are excellent company, and you can see why Steve seems to be in no hurry to wrap up his business and move on.
''Promised Land'' itself, however, has a point to make, and it does so in a way that is both honorable and disappointing. It admirably tries to represent both sides of the fracking debate, even though its allegiance is clearly to the antifracking position. There is nothing wrong with such advocacy, except that in this case it means that the movie veers away from its strengths, ending in a welter of convenient (and dubious) plot twists and puffed-up speeches.
Viewers who are already skeptical of fracking are likely to find gratification in the film's sentimental, studiously ambiguous conclusion. Those seeking scientific information will need to look elsewhere -- not that rigorous science is what anyone expects from a movie. But ''Promised Land'' feels divided against itself, not quite sure how to reconcile its polemical intentions with its storytelling impulses, and thus finally unable to fulfill its own promise.
''Promised Land'' is rated R (Under 17 requires accompanying parent or adult guardian). Strong feelings, strong language.
Promised Land
Opens on Friday in New York and Los Angeles.
Directed by Gus Van Sant; written by John Krasinski and Matt Damon, based on a story by Dave Eggers; director of photography, Linus Sandgren; edited by Billy Rich; music by Danny Elfman; production design by Daniel B. Clancy; costumes by Juliet Polcsa; produced by Mr. Damon, Mr. Krasinski and Chris Moore; released by Focus Features. Running time: 1 hour 46 minutes.
WITH: Matt Damon (Steve Butler), John Krasinski (Dustin Noble), Frances McDormand (Sue Thomason), Rosemarie DeWitt (Alice), Scoot McNairy (Jeff Dennon), Titus Welliver (Rob) and Hal Holbrook (Frank Yates).

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Promised Land: Matt Damon and Frances McDormand in this film, opening on Friday in New York and Los Angeles. (C1)
In ''Promised Land,'' Hal Holbrook is a citizen who raises questions about the effects of fracking on land and livestock.
John Krasinski plays an opponent of fracking.
 Rosemarie DeWitt is a love interest for Matt Damon's character. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SCOTT GREEN/FOCUS FEATURES) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); MAMMALS (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (75%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (75%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (70%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (65%); TRUCK DRIVERS (61%)

PERSON: MATT DAMON (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (76%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



921 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1991 words

HEADLINE: Lionized for Lightning Victory in '91 Gulf War

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN; Ravi Somaiya contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf, who commanded the American-led forces that crushed Iraq in the 1991 Persian Gulf war and became the nation's most acclaimed military hero since the midcentury exploits of Generals Dwight D. Eisenhower and Douglas MacArthur, died on Thursday in Tampa, Fla. He was 78.
The general, who retired soon after the gulf war and lived in Tampa, died of complications arising from a recent bout of pneumonia, said his sister Ruth Barenbaum. In 1993, he was found to have prostate cancer, for which he was successfully treated.
In Operation Desert Storm, General Schwarzkopf orchestrated one of the most lopsided victories in modern warfare, a six-week blitzkrieg by a broad coalition of forces with overwhelming air superiority that liberated tiny Kuwait from Iraqi occupation, routed Saddam Hussein's Republican Guard and virtually destroyed Iraq's infrastructure, all with relatively light allied losses. 
Winning the lightning war was never in doubt and in no way comparable to the traumas of World War II and the Korean conflict, which made Eisenhower and MacArthur into national heroes and presidential timber. But a divisive Vietnam conflict and the cold war had produced no such heroes, and the little-known General Schwarzkopf was wreathed in laurels as the victor in a popular war against a brutal dictator.
A combat-tested, highly decorated career officer who had held many commands, served two battlefield tours in Vietnam and coordinated American landing forces in the 1983 invasion of Grenada, he came home to a tumultuous welcome, including a glittering ticker-tape parade up Broadway in the footsteps of Lindbergh, MacArthur and the moon-landing Apollo astronauts.
''Stormin' Norman,'' as headlines proclaimed him, was lionized by millions of euphoric Americans who, until weeks earlier, had never heard of him. President George Bush, whose popularity soared with the war, gave him the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Congress gave him standing ovations. Queen Elizabeth II made him an honorary knight. European and Asian nations conferred lavish honors.
In his desert fatigues, he was interviewed on television, featured on magazine covers and feted at celebrations in Tampa, Washington and other cities. He led the Pegasus Parade at the Kentucky Derby in Louisville and was the superstar at the Indianapolis 500. Florida Republicans urged him to run for the United States Senate.
Amid speculation about his future, a movement to draft him for president arose. He insisted he had no presidential aspirations, but Time magazine quoted him as saying he someday ''might be able to find a sense of self-fulfillment serving my country in the political arena,'' and he told Barbara Walters on the ABC News program ''20/20'' that he would not rule out a White House run.
Within weeks, the four-star general had become a media and marketing phenomenon. Three months after the war, he signed a $5 million contract with Bantam Books for the world rights to his memoirs, ''It Doesn't Take a Hero,'' written with Peter Petre and published in 1992. Herbert Mitgang, reviewing the book for The New York Times, called it a serviceable first draft of history. ''General Schwarzkopf,'' he wrote, ''comes across as a strong professional soldier, a Patton with a conscience.''
All but drowned out in the surge of approbation, critics noted that the general's enormous air, sea and land forces had overwhelmed a country with a gross national product equivalent to North Dakota's, and that while Iraq's bridges, dams and power plants had been all but obliterated and tens of thousands of its troops killed (compared with a few hundred allied casualties), Saddam Hussein had been left in power.
Postwar books, news reports and documentaries -- a flood of information the general had restricted during the war -- showed that most of Iraq's elite Republican Guard, whose destruction had been a goal of war planners, had escaped from an ill-coordinated Marine and Army assault, and had not been pursued because of President Bush's decision to halt the ground war after 100 hours.
''The Generals' War: The Inside Story of the Conflict in the Gulf'' (1995), by Michael R. Gordon of The New York Times and the retired general Bernard E. Trainor, portrayed a White House rushed into ending the war prematurely by unrealistic fears of being criticized for killing too many Iraqis and by ignorance of events on the ground. It cast General Schwarzkopf as a second-rate commander who took credit for allied successes, blamed others for his mistakes and shouted at, but did not effectively control, his field commanders as the Republican Guard slipped away.
He was depicted more sympathetically in other books, including ''In the Eye of the Storm'' (1991), by Roger Cohen and Claudio Gatti. ''His swift triumph over Iraq in the 1991 gulf war came as a shock to a nation that had been battered, by failing industries and festering economic problems, into a sense that the century of its power was at an end,'' they wrote. ''Schwarzkopf appeared abruptly as an intensely human messenger of hope, however illusory or fragile.''
Old official photographs show a medaled military mannequin, a 6-foot-3-inch 240-pounder with grim determined eyes. But they miss the gentler man who listened to Pavarotti, Willie Nelson and Bob Dylan; who loved hunting, fishing and ballet; and, like any soldier, called home twice a week from the war zone.
Herbert Norman Schwarzkopf Jr. was born on Aug. 22, 1934, in Trenton, one of three children of the man whose name he shared and the former Ruth Bowman. At 18, he dropped the Jr. and his first name but kept the initial. His father, New Jersey's first state police superintendent, investigated the 1932 Lindbergh kidnapping; he was also a West Point graduate, fought in World Wars I and II, became a major general and trained Iran's national police in the 1940s.
As a boy, General Schwarzkopf attended Bordentown Military Institute near Trenton. But from 1946 to 1950 he lived in Iran, Switzerland, Germany and Italy with his father. Fluent in French and German at 17, he enrolled at Valley Forge Military Academy in Wayne, Pa., played football and was a champion debater.
At West Point, he was on the football and wrestling teams and sang in the choir. He loved history and dreamed of leading men in battle. ''He saw himself as Alexander the Great,'' recalled Gen. Leroy Suddath, his old roommate, ''and we didn't laugh when he said it.'' In 1956, he graduated 43rd in a class of 480.
After infantry and airborne training at Fort Benning, Ga., he served two years with airborne units in America and Europe, took a two-year assignment in Berlin and a career-officer course at Fort Benning, then earned a master's in guided-missile engineering in 1964 from the University of Southern California.
Captain Schwarzkopf went to Vietnam as an adviser to a South Vietnamese airborne division in 1965 and once withstood a 10-day enemy siege. He returned a major in 1966, taught at West Point for two years, and as a lieutenant colonel attended the Command and General Staff College at Fort Leavenworth, Kan.
In 1968 he married Brenda Holsinger. They had three children: Cynthia, Jessica and Christian.
A battalion commander in his second Vietnam tour, in 1969-70, he was wounded twice and won three Silver Stars for bravery. Men in his command were killed in two 1970 actions that deeply affected him.
On Feb. 18, an artillery shell aimed at the enemy roared over a hill where one of his companies was dug in. It hit a treetop and exploded, killing Sgt. Michael E. Mullen. Form letters sent over the colonel's name seemed to implicate him, and the sergeant's parents held him partly responsible as they crusaded to expose military callousness. The case became an antiwar cause célèbre and tarnished the colonel's record, perhaps unjustly. A 1976 book, ''Friendly Fire,'' by C. D. B. Bryan, called the death accidental, but a 1995 memoir by the sergeant's mother, ''Unfriendly Fire,'' blamed the military.
On May 28, the colonel ordered his helicopter down to rescue troops who had wandered into a minefield. Some were airlifted out, but he stayed behind with his troops. A soldier tripped a mine, shattering his leg and wounding the colonel, who crawled atop the thrashing victim to stop him from setting off more mines. Three other troopers were killed by an exploding mine, but the colonel led the survivors to safety. The episode sealed his reputation as a commander willing to risk his life for his men.
He came home dismayed at the Army's leadership and convinced that the peace movement and the news media were prolonging the war. One of his sisters, Ms. Barenbaum, had become a peace activist, and for years they did not speak. He later concluded that politicians had lost the war, and the failure, at a cost of 58,000 American lives, left him devastated. For a time, he considered resigning his commission.
His decision to stay in the service came at a military nadir for America. As historians have noted, the Army during and after Vietnam fell into decay -- a conscript force rife with racial antagonisms, drug abuse and disciplinary failures. Soldiers were disillusioned, the uniform seemed tarnished in a nation that no longer cared, and once proud traditions had given way to progress measured by infamous ''body counts.'' But in the late '70s and the '80s, reforms in recruitment, living conditions, planning, training and leadership restored much of what had been lost: self-respect and professionalism in an all-volunteer service.
He became a colonel in 1975, a brigadier general in 1978, a major general in 1982 and a lieutenant general in 1986. He moved from personnel and planning to brigade posts in Alaska and Washington State, from the Pacific Command in Hawaii to a division in Europe and back to Washington in charge of personnel.
In 1983, while assigned to an elite tank division at Fort Stewart, Ga., he was tapped to coordinate the task force that invaded Grenada. Revolutionaries had staged a coup, killed the prime minister and, with Cuban aid, were building an airfield, purportedly to supply Latin American insurgents. It was also feared that American medical students on the island might become hostages. Operation Urgent Fury suppressed the rebels, restored order and brought the students home safely.
In 1988, General Schwarzkopf was given his fourth star and named commander of the United States Central Command at MacDill Air Force Base in Tampa, supervising military activities in 19 countries in the Middle East, the Horn of Africa and the Persian Gulf. He developed contingency plans for war in Iraq, and two years later they were needed.
On Aug. 2, 1990, Iraqi forces occupied Kuwait. General Schwarzkopf moved his headquarters to Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, and amassed hundreds of ships, thousands of aircraft and 765,000 allied troops, including 540,000 Americans and large Arab contingents under Prince Khaled bin Sultan of Saudi Arabia, who was co-commander in the gulf war. A trade embargo and warnings failed to force an Iraqi withdrawal from Kuwait, and after a deadline passed on Jan. 15, 1991, the world's first heavily televised war began.
Audiences saw live missiles striking targets and fighters taking off from aircraft carriers. Cable news delivered continuous reports, and networks anchored newscasts from Baghdad. In Riyadh, General Schwarzkopf controlled the flow of information in briefings. Some reporters were allowed into the field, subject to military supervision and censorship. The result was a dramatic war -- and a highly visible commander in fatigues.
The ground war was over in a few days, thanks to what he called his ''left hook'' strategy, in which he placed forces behind enemy lines for a swift, decisive strike.
The general supported Mr. Bush's presidential campaigns in 2000 and 2004 and Senator John McCain's 2008 race against Senator Barack Obama, but he never ran for political office.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: General Schwarzkopf in 1990. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID LONGSTREATH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A1)
Gen. H. Norman Schwarzkopf with American soldiers in the Saudi Arabian desert in 1991. He commanded Operation Desert Storm, which liberated Kuwait. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS)
General Schwarzkopf with Secretary of Defense Dick Cheney, left, and Gen. Colin L. Powell, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in New York in 1991. At right with President George Bush. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY AMY SANCETTA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 BARRY THUMMA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); DESERT STORM (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); VIETNAM WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); DEATHS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CELEBRITIES (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (69%); INTERVIEWS (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (64%); PROSTATE DISEASE (56%); PNEUMONIA (56%); PROSTATE CANCER (55%); AUTO RACING (50%); HISTORIC SITES (50%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (59%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); DICK CHENEY (58%); ELIZABETH II (50%); BARBARA WALTERS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (94%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (73%); LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (66%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); EARTH'S MOON (74%); INDIANA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); KUWAIT (92%); GULF STATES (88%); VIET NAM (87%); ASIA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GRENADA (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



922 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 5405 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Cat on a Hot Tin Roof' (in previews; opens on Jan. 17) Break out the bourbon. While Blanche DuBois is the most frequent Broadway habitué among Tennessee Williams's gallery of damaged, desperate women, Maggie the Cat now moves into second place to tie with Amanda and Laura Wingfield. Since Barbara Bel Geddes first prowled the Pollitt family's Mississippi Delta plantation home in 1955, this sultry drama of Southern decadence, greed and mendacity has returned in five major productions -- this one being its third in a decade. Following in the heels of Elizabeth Ashley, Kathleen Turner, Ashley Judd and Anika Noni Rose -- not to mention Elizabeth Taylor on-screen -- the latest actress to don Margaret's figure-hugging slip and indomitable determination is Scarlett Johansson, who won a Tony Award in 2010 for her Broadway debut in ''A View From the Bridge.'' Appearing alongside her in this Rob Ashford production is Benjamin Walker (''Bloody Bloody Andrew Jackson'') as Maggie's boozing, depressed husband, Brick, with Ciaran Hinds as Big Daddy and Debra Monk as Big Mama. Richard Rodgers Theater, 226 West 46th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Other Place' (in previews; opens on Jan. 10) Sharr White's twisty drama earned Laurie Metcalf an Obie Award in 2011; now it and she are making a somewhat delayed transfer to Broadway, with two new actors (including Daniel Stern) joining them. Ms. Metcalf plays a renowned neurologist whose research may be hitting too close to home -- and that's about all that's safe to divulge about the plot. Joe Mantello directs, as he did in 2011. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, Manhattan, (800) 432-7250, mtc-nyc.org. (Eric Grode)
'Picnic' (in previews; opens on Jan. 13) Despite being a Pulitzer Prize winner (in 1954) and possibly William Inge's best-known play, ''Picnic'' has only been revived one other time on Broadway, when the Roundabout presented Kyle Chandler and Ashley Judd as the young lovers in 1994. Almost 20 years later, the Roundabout once again revisits it; this time the ubiquitous director Sam Gold (''Seminar,'' ''Circle Mirror Transformation'') has surrounded his young leads, Maggie Grace and Sebastian Stan, with a canny blend of theater mainstays (Reed Birney, Elizabeth Marvel) and Hollywood royalty (Ellen Burstyn). American Airlines Theater, 227 West 42nd Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Grode)
'Water by the Spoonful' (in previews; opens on Jan. 8) It's not often that plays win the Pulitzer Prize before their New York debut, so Quiara Alegría Hudes's 2012 winner is eagerly anticipated. The second play in her Elliot Trilogy, following her 2007 work, ''Elliot, a Soldier's Fugue,'' follows the life of a young Puerto Rican veteran of the Iraq war and the two overlapping worlds -- one online, one real -- that keep him physically and psychologically afloat. Two ''Elliot'' veterans -- the actor Armando Riesco and the director Davis McCallum -- are on board for this one, too. Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Grode)
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Katie Finneran and Anthony Warlow (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
'Chaplin: The Musical' Though Rob McClure does a graceful impersonation of the title character of this soppy bio-musical, the off-screen Charlie Chaplin is often missing in action, devoured by a swarm of man-eating clichés. This gray-toned sour-smell-of-success story, featuring vaporous songs by Christopher Curtis and directed by Warren Carlyle, takes those clichés very seriously (2:30). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Dead Accounts' As a prodigal son returned to Cincinnati from New York City, Norbert Leo Butz conjures fireworks out of very thin air in Theresa Rebeck's new comedy, directed by Jack O'Brien and featuring Katie Holmes. The play throws out many weighty subjects, but they all blur into a jet stream of semi-snappy dialogue before changing course and evaporating (2:00). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Elf' This stage musical based on the Will Ferrell movie returns to Broadway with Wayne Knight as the celebrity Santa, though he isn't around much. The production, like all the holiday-themed shows clogging New York theaters, has some funny moments, a couple of decent musical numbers and a lot of generic-feeling songs and synthetic sentiment. Jordan Gelber in the role of Buddy, the human raised as an elf who comes to New York to find his real father, never really finds a comfort zone for the sometimes awkward, sometimes perceptive character (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, elfmusical.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
'Evita' This just in: Eva Perón is still dead. That, anyway, is on the evidence of Michael Grandage's unsmiling revival of Andrew Lloyd Webber and Tim Rice's 1978 bio-musical, which feels about as warm-blooded as a gilded mummy. Elena Roger, Michael Cerveris and Ricky Martin are the stars of this earnest combination of requiem mass and history pageant (2:30). Marquis Theater, 1535 Broadway, at 45th Street, Manhattan, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'Glengarry Glen Ross' The fight has gone out of the boys from David Mamet's 1984 Pulitzer Prize-winning drama of sharks in a small pond. In Daniel Sullivan's deflated production, which stars an extravagantly gesturing Al Pacino, it's as if all the competitive fierceness has been sucked from them by some cosmic super-vacuum cleaner. It also stars Bobby Cannavale as the hotshot Ricky Roma (1:40). Schoenfeld Theater, 236 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Golden Boy' Bartlett Sher directs a superbly cast revival of Clifford Odets's 1937 drama about a young man (Seth Numrich) torn between a career as a boxer and his first love, the violin. It's a richly atmospheric production that cuts to the emotional quick of Odets's still-vital play (2:45). Belasco Theater, 111 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'Grace' Craig Wright's cool, strangulated essay of a play about forms of faith isn't as intellectually unsettling as it means to be. But the cast (which includes Paul Rudd, Ed Asner and Kate Arrington) is very good under Dexter Bullard's direction. And Michael Shannon confirms his status as our most convincing interpreter of uneasy American manhood (1:40). Cort Theater, 138 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Heiress' Masterpiece Theater on Broadway. Moisés Kaufman's revival of Ruth and Augustus Goetz's sturdy war horse, starring a one-note Jessica Chastain, is lovely to look at, easy to follow -- and aside from a vivid supporting performance from Judith Ivey -- about as full of real life as an Olde New York Christmas window in a department store (2:45). Walter Kerr Theater, 219 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Mystery of Edwin Drood' A boisterous, well-cast revival of Rupert Holmes's Tony-winning 1986 musical, which gives the audience the chance to choose the identity of the killer of the titular hero. Chita Rivera lends an air of authentic glamour, Jim Norton is a cutup as the music-hall proprietor, and the young cast sings the lovely score with great skill (2:35). Studio 54, 254 West 54th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundabouttheatre.org. (Isherwood)
'Newsies' This Disney musical -- adapted from the 1992 movie and inspired by the newsboy strike of 1899 -- markets Urchin Appeal with extra! extra! enthusiasm. Jeff Calhoun directs a cast of comely, if overgrown, ragamuffins. The largely interchangeable songs are by Alan Menken and Jack Feldman (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com. (Brantley)
'Nice Work if You Can Get It' Every now and then a bubble of pure, tickling charm rises from the artificial froth of this pastiche 1920s musical, directed by Kathleen Marshall and featuring songs by George and Ira Gershwin. But mostly the production, starring Matthew Broderick and Kelli O'Hara, registers as a shiny, dutiful trickle of gags and production numbers (2:30). Imperial Theater, 249 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Once' This gentle musical, set in Dublin, about a love affair that never quite happens -- based on the 2006 movie -- inventively uses songs (by Glen Hansard and Marketa Irglova) and dance to convey a beautiful shimmer of might-have-been regret. Staged by John Tiffany and Steven Hoggett (''Black Watch''), the production stars the immensely appealing Steve Kazee and Cristin Milioti (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). Brooks Atkinson Theater, 256 West 47th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?' Pam MacKinnon's shattering 50th-anniversary revival of Edward Albee's hair-raising drama of marital discord stars an electrifying Tracy Letts (of ''August: Osage County'' fame) as George and Amy Morton (ditto) as Martha, ably supported by Carrie Coon and Madison Dirks as the young couple they use as cannon fodder. Not to be missed (3:05). Booth Theater, 222 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Bare' Having shepherded a sanitized overhaul of that delirious orgy of pig's blood on prom night, ''Carrie,'' this year, the director Stafford Arima has now turned to this tragic tale of star-cross'd gay lovers in a coed Roman Catholic boarding school. While the boys try to keep their romance secret, the truth comes spilling out during the school drama club's production of -- you guessed it -- ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Retooled significantly since its first incarnation in 2000, this emo musical has been updated to reflect attitudes toward homophobia and bullying in the ''It Gets Better'' era. But despite touching moments and a committed cast, the material is too painfully earnest and riddled with clichés to connect with audiences not still mired in adolescence (2:30). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, baremusicalnyc.com. (Rooney)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Emotional Creature' This collage of songs, monologues and spoken-word pieces by Eve Ensler explore the problems facing young women around the globe, from sex-slavery to the plague of mean girls. Performed with vivifying passion by a talented young cast of six (1:30). Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Forbidden Broadway: Alive and Kicking' Gerard Alessandrini's essential satirical cheat sheet to Broadway musicals returns after a three-year absence, packing polished brass knuckles. A precisionist cast of four provides vocal cartoons as evocative as Al Hirschfeld's caricatures. This show not only tickles but also pierces the Achilles' heels of the productions under scrutiny (1:40). At the 47th Street Theater, 304 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Forever Dusty' If Kristen Holly Smith turned up to your costume party in Dusty Springfield drag and started singing, there would be no mistaking the woman she was channeling. But doing a passable impersonation is a far cry from capturing the essence of one of the most distinctive female vocalists of all time, as this amateurish inflated cabaret act demonstrates. Written in by-the-numbers basics by Ms. Smith and Jonathan Vankin, and directed with minimal finesse by Randal Myler, this misconceived bio-musical is a soulless tribute to the platinum-haired, panda-eyed queen of white soul. She deserves better (1:40). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, foreverdusty.net. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'The Freedom of the City' The masterful contemporary Irish dramatist Brian Friel puts a human face on the Troubles in Northern Ireland with this stirring drama from 1973 about the shooting by British soldiers of three nonviolent civilian protesters at a march, which echoes the tragic events of Bloody Sunday the year before. Staged by Ciaran O'Reilly with a firm handle on the narrative's time-shuffling structure and a stinging clarity that illuminates the play's multiple perspectives, this drama steadily tightens its grip, from its absorbing beginnings through to its shattering conclusion. The standout among the generally solid cast is Cara Seymour as a stubbornly optimistic housewife and mother of 11 children, living in two rooms with a useless husband and no running water (2:00). (Resumes performances on Wednesday.) Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actor's Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
'Golden Age' Terrence McNally's comedy-drama, set backstage on the first night of the opera composer Vincenzo Bellini's last opera (''I Puritani''), is sadly hackneyed and contrived. Lee Pace plays the composer, and Bebe Neuwirth the famed singer Maria Malibran (2:30). City Center, 131 West 55th Street, Manhattan, (212) 581-1212, manhattantheatreclub.com. (Isherwood)
'Golden Land' The upbeat six-person acting ensemble in this National Yiddish Theater-Folksbiene production seems game for the two-hour rendition of the entire New York Jewish immigrant experience, from the 1880s to the 1940s. In montages and medleys, partly in Yiddish and partly in English, the audience is transported to Ellis Island, the Lower East Side, the Triangle shirtwaist factory fire, union protests, the Holocaust and more. The characters are more or less generic immigrant archetypes, but the actors do a great job of hiding how exhausted they must be from the constant march of history and costume changes (2:00). Baruch Performing Arts Center, 55 Lexington Avenue, at 25th Street, nationalyiddishtheatre.org. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'The Great God Pan' The new play from the terrific young playwright Amy Herzog (''4000 Miles'') is an oblique but moving drama about a young man (the excellent Jeremy Strong) agonized by the discovery that he may (or, if he can trust his hazy memory, may not) have been sexually abused as a child. Under Carolyn Cantor's direction, an altogether terrific cast, including Becky Ann Baker and Peter Friedman, draws out all the quiet heartbreak in Ms. Herzog's keenly observed writing (1:25). Playwrights Horizons, 416 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 279-4200, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place -- the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic community in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Jason Zinoman)
&#x2605; 'The Old Man and the Old Moon' The marvelous and folksy PigPen Theater Company tells this tall tale using live songs, puppets and shadow screens (2:10). Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (866) 811-4111, pigpentheatre.com. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'The Piano Lesson' August Wilson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, set in Pittsburgh in 1936, returns in a galvanizingly beautiful staging by Ruben Santiago-Hudson, featuring memorable performances virtually across the board. A highlight of the year in theater (2:50). Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Tribes' Nina Raine's smart, lively and beautifully acted play asks us to hear how we hear, in silence as well as speech. This British import considers the passive and aggressive forms of listening within an insular, intellectual family, whose members include a deaf son. David Cromer is the expert director (2:15). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Nomenclature would seem to be fate for the title characters of Christopher Durang's sunny comedy about gloomy people. David Hyde Pierce, Kristine Nielsen and Sigourney Weaver portray three siblings (if not three sisters) whose parents burdened them with Chekovian names. Nicholas Martin directs this surprisingly mild-mannered work from a savage satirist (2:30). Mitzi E. Newhouse Theater, Lincoln Center, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
Off Off Broadway
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). Arts@Renaissance (garden level of the former Greenpoint Hospital), 2 Kingsland Avenue, at Maspeth Avenue, Brooklyn, (718) 388-5454, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
Extravaganzas
'Big Apple Circus: Legendarium' For its 35th season, the Big Apple Circus returns with another first-rate show that's lower-tech than past performances, but still high quality fun (2:00). Damrosch Park, Lincoln Center, (800) 922-3772, bigapplecircus.org. (Jaworowski)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Gauguin!' George Fischoff's one-man musical about Paul Gauguin. Saturday only (1:00). Nola Studios, 250 West 54th Street, Clinton, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Mary Poppins' Supernanny (2:30). New Amsterdam Theater, 214 West 42nd Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'War Horse' The galloping, tear-pulling Tony winner (2:45). Vivian Beaumont Theater, 150 West 65th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
'Bad Jews' (closes on Sunday) The wonderful Tracee Chimo (''Circle Mirror Tranformation,'' ''Bachelorette'') gives a sensational performance in Joshua Harmon's play, portraying a smart, funny and seriously abrasive young woman who is embroiled in a dispute with her cousin over who is entitled to a family heirloom (1:40). Black Box Theater at the Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Bring It On: The Musical' (closes on Sunday) An A-list of musical-theater artists -- Tom Kitt (''Next to Normal''), Lin-Manuel Miranda (''In the Heights''), Jeff Whitty (''Avenue Q'') and Amanda Green -- teamed to create this featherweight concoction inspired by the cult-fave movie about rival cheerleaders. The human pyrotechnics in the cheerleading sequences are the highlight (2:15). St. James Theater, 246 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Chris March's Butt-Cracker Suite' (closes on Saturday) The designer Chris March expanded his fan base as a popular ''Project Runway'' contestant and in his eccentric spinoff series, ''Mad Fashion,'' on Bravo. The most devoted of those fans may be willing to indulge him as the creator, director, designer, producer and tutu-clad star of this ''trailer park ballet,'' a campy alternative for those weary of the annual pilgrimage to see Tchaikovsky's ''Nutcracker.'' But while it looks to John Waters, Pee-wee Herman and Honey Boo Boo for inspiration, this low-rent pop-culture hash, choreographed by Ben Franklin, is far too tame to succeed as the trashtastic fun it aspires to be (1:20). Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Rooney)
'A Christmas Story, The Musical' (closes on Sunday) An amiable, blessedly ungarish holiday musical for family audiences, faithfully adapted from the popular 1983 movie drawing on the writings of Jean Shepherd (2:20). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, Manhattan, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com, achristmasstorythemusical.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'A Civil War Christmas' (closes on Sunday) Paula Vogel's play is a beautifully stitched tapestry of American lives set during the chilly winter of 1964. Characters include Abraham Lincoln (a dignified Bob Stillman) and his troubled wife, Mary Todd Lincoln (an affecting Alice Ripley) but also Mary Todd's dressmaker, a slave who purchased her freedom named Elizabeth Keckley (the fine Karen Kandel) along with soldiers on both sides of the conflict. It's a rare holiday entertainment that won't nauseate the adults, and should edify the children without boring them (2:30). New York Theater Workshop, 79 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 279-4200, nytw.org, ticketcentral.com. (Isherwood)
'Falling' (closes on Sunday) The Martin family, in Deanna Jent's compact play, is trying to live a normal life despite the outsize presence of their severely autistic son, Josh (effectively portrayed by Daniel Everidge). When a Bible-toting grandmother visits, the emotional temperature rises, and with it Josh's potential for violence. Despite some implausible stacking of the dramatic deck by the playwright, ''Falling'' makes some sound points and invites further investigation into the disorder (1:15). Minetta Lane Theater, 18 Minetta Lane, Greenwich Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Webster)
'From the Ground Up' (closes on Sunday) Daring Australians fly through the air in Circus Oz's fast and furious show, which owes something to vaudeville as well as the circus. Recommended for ages 5 and up, this is the holiday offering at the New Victory Theater, and it's a good one: a little naughty, a little nice, a little death-defying (1:40). New Victory Theater, 209 West 42nd Street, 10th floor, Manhattan, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org. (Saltz)
'The Holiday Guys: Happy Merry Hanu-Mas!' (closes on Sunday) Marc Kudisch and Jeffry Denman's new seasonal stage show -- a celebration of both Christmas and Hanukkah -- is moderately diverting, nonthreatening and nontaxing, which seem to be the main theatrical criteria at this time of year. And when the two men put aside the predictable banter and just sing, it's downright pleasant (1:20). Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Genzlinger)
'It's a Wonderful Life: The 1946 Live Radio Play' (closes on Sunday) Irish Repertory Theater's adaptation of Frank Capra's perennial holiday movie offers six actors (and one effects specialist) handling 25 roles, in a 70-minute condensation of the original, which was more than two hours. The film's fans may pine for the deleted passages, but the production's invention, humor and charm helps to soothe the loss (1:10). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Webster)
'Let's Kill Grandma This Christmas' (closes on Sunday) After worming her way into grandma's will, a slutty blonde conspires with her sister's husband to off the family matriarch. The end product is the theatrical equivalent of a mediocre holiday movie, replete with the usual Hollywood clichés: a potty-mouthed grandma; lots of bickering beneath the Christmas tree; a triumphant, drunken meltdown from the mousy pushover; a high-fiving, unemployed meathead; a nasally henpecked nerd; and even an O.J. Simpson joke, which is almost a parody of lazy writing (2:10). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, letskillgrandmatheplay.com. (Rampell)
'Radio City Christmas Spectacular' (closes on Sunday) After last year's update, this annual extravaganza returns with a paucity of new material. But the Rockettes are forever splendid: regal in their precision, radiant in their costumes, exuberant in their high kicks. Yes, there's a cheesy narrative thread, but also a new and fascinating look at Rockettes fashions through the decades. (It's the troupe's 85th year.) And then there are those dancers, as much a timeless New York treasure as the view from the Empire State Building (1:30). Radio City Music Hall, (866) 858-0008, ticketmaster.com. (Webster)
'Restoration Comedy' (closes on Monday) Amy Freed's mash-up of two late-17th-century frolics juggles bawdy humor and elastic morality as it examines questions of love, marriage and licentiousness. While the adventures of an inveterate womanizer and the efforts of his prim wife to tame him via masked seduction are diverting, the play is not really the thing here. Ed Sylvanus Iskander's raucous production, featuring the Flea's caffeinated and fabulously costumed young acting ensemble, the Bats, is more about the Baroque-glam rock happening. In addition to libidinous displays of pole dancing and other savory skills set to Scissor Sisters tunes during the play proper, the lengthy evening also includes a preshow musicale with cocktails, an extended variety entr'acte with dumplings being served and a girl group covering En Vogue and Mariah Carey, and a post-show dance party (3:25). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theflea.org. (Rooney)
'Silence! The Musical' (closes on Sunday, but performances will resume on Jan. 18) An ''unauthorized parody'' of the grisly movie with the Hannibal Lecter character crooning noxious songs and a hilarious sendup of Jodie Foster's intense Clarice Starling. Not as funny as it needs to be (1:30). Elektra Theater, 674 Eighth Avenue, at 42nd Street, (212) 352-3101, silencethemusical.com. (Isherwood)
'13 Things About Ed Carpolotti' (closes on Sunday) Penny Fuller does a beautiful job in Barry Kleinbort's one-act solo musical with a cabaret feel. As a recent widow in this modest but poignant and clever production, Ms. Fuller reflects on the good times, deals with the financial aftermath of her husband's death and reveals a joyous surprise ending brought about by the power and ingenuity of true love, even beyond the grave (1:05). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Gates)
&#x2605; 'What Rhymes With America' (closes on Sunday) Melissa James Gibson's touching, mournful play examines the disappointed lives of a quartet of interlocked characters. A wonderful cast under Daniel Aukin's direction brings out all the piquant, off-kilter charm of Ms. Gibson's writing (1:20). Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 279-4200, atlantictheater.org. (Isherwood)
'Working: the Musical' (closes on Sunday) Based on Studs Terkel's landmark oral history of the American worker, this 1977 revue incorporates contributions from a handful of composers, including Mr. Schwartz, Mary Rodgers, Micki Grant and James Taylor. This revised presentation, directed by Gordon Greenberg for Prospect Theater Company, also has new material by Lin-Manuel Miranda. The result is wildly uneven, but strikes a chord in intimate, contemplative moments that celebrate how even the most seemingly marginal professions are an intrinsic part of the fabric of American life. Anyone with an interest in late-20th century musical theater will want to investigate (1:40). 59E59 Theaters, 59 East 59th Street, Manhattan, (212) 279-4200, 59e59.org. (Rooney)

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: 'THE PIANO LESSON': August Wilson's Pulitzer Prize-winning play, set in Pittsburgh in 1936, returns in a galvanizingly beautiful staging by Ruben Santiago-Hudson, featuring memorable performances virtually across the board. (Roslyn Ruff, above, who infuses her character with a captivating, quiet authority, is particularly striking.) A highlight of the year in theater (2:50). Pershing Square Signature Center, 480 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 244-7529, signaturetheatre.org. (Charles Isherwood) (PHOTOGRAPH BY KARLI CADEL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); CELEBRITIES (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (75%); THEATER (59%)

PERSON: SCARLETT JOHANSSON (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



923 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Deepens Storm's Loss as Businesses Stay Closed

BYLINE: By JULIE TURKEWITZ

 BODY:
In the Rockaways, none of the 450 employees of the Madelaine Chocolate Company will receive a paycheck this week. Until a few days ago, the floor of the company's 200,000-square-foot complex was a muddy, sludgy, chocolaty mess, and its factory has temporarily closed. Outside, foiled Santas and candy roses lay victim to the hurricane.
Not far away, the cash register at Fast Break, a local deli, is silent, its employees out of work. Next door, Browns Hardware will be shut until at least February.
The story is much the same throughout the region, where residents who lost their jobs as a result of Hurricane Sandy are streaming into career centers in New York and New Jersey, desperate for a paycheck. 
''Here, it's like anyone who didn't lose his home lost his job,'' said Juan Colon, 57, who worked at Madelaine for 26 years.
The devastating storm, which destroyed many businesses, left tens of thousands of New York and New Jersey residents unemployed. How long they will remain jobless is uncertain. In some cases, they may be able to resume their old jobs as their employers get back on their feet, assuming those businesses reopen.
The latest jobs reports from New York and New Jersey, for November, suggested the toll the storm took on the local labor force -- New York State lost 29,100 private jobs, while New Jersey lost 8,100.
In the same month, New Jersey processed an unprecedented number of first-time claims for unemployment insurance: 138,661, surpassing the previous record of 83,518 established in December 2009, which came at the height of the recession. And in New York, 158,204 individuals filed initial claims for unemployment, nearing the record set in January 2009, also at the height of the recession.
The unemployment problem has eased a bit as ''Grand Reopening'' signs have popped up at mattress stores, gas stations and other businesses. And the number of people filing for unemployment for the first time has slowed significantly in recent weeks.
But there are still many people struggling to pay their bills, finding themselves out of a job at a time when the overall unemployment picture remains bleak.
''We were spared the storm, but not the repercussions,'' said Hector Valle, 57, who lives on Staten Island. The hurricane left Mr. Valle's home untouched, but dealt his family a mighty blow: His wife worked at Bellevue Hospital Center as a nurse's assistant for the last 25 years. When the hurricane shuttered Bellevue, she was transferred to Woodhull Medical Center -- a move that caused her to lose her overtime work, as well as part of her night differential pay.
The couple's income fell to $1,400 a month from $2,200 a month.
''There's nobody coming to my house to help,'' said Mr. Valle, who has been unemployed for three years, ''because they're like, 'You're fine.' We're not fine.''
Those most affected are the people who already have trouble finding jobs: older workers, single parents with child-care concerns and immigrants who speak little English.
And the storm has further handicapped many of those looking for new work: Interview outfits lie moldy in Dumpsters; computers have been destroyed, résumé files gone forever. Many lack access to transportation. ''There are a lot of barriers to employment, from no phone to no home,'' said Thomas Munday, director of a city-run Workforce 1 Career Center on Staten Island.
When they do get jobs, many residents will face new, longer commutes, and fewer benefits.
At the Madelaine chocolate company this month, Jorge Farber, the president and chief executive, shuffled past ribbons of ruined Reese's foil, wearing yellow rubber shoe covers slicked with slime. He intends to reopen, but could not estimate a date.
The company is the largest employer in the Rockaways, and normally pumps out 100,000 pounds of chocolate a day. It was started 64 years ago by two men fleeing the Holocaust, and about a quarter of its employees are Haitian immigrants. Many had family members who died in the 2010 Haitian earthquake.
Some of the laid-off employees have packaged chocolate here for decades. For them, Mr. Farber said, the company is a good provider: Line workers, many of whom do not speak English, make about $15 an hour, plus benefits. It would be difficult for them to find new jobs with the same salary and benefits.
Over nearly three decades, Mr. Colon rose to a supervisor position, earning about $900 a week.
When the storm left him without a job, he signed up for unemployment benefits. But he is getting only $325 a week, he said.
''I don't know what I will do,'' said Mr. Colon, who lives in a fourth-floor apartment in Far Rockaway with his wife, 22-year-old daughter and a grandchild. ''Nobody can survive on $300.''
There is no telling when the company will be able to bring him back.
Some may find work related to hurricane recovery. New York State qualified for a federal grant that will allow it to hire 5,000 temporary cleanup workers for jobs that last about six months and pay $11 to $15 an hour. The city has already hired 788 people to fill some of those temporary jobs, according to Angie Kamath, deputy commissioner of work force development for the city's Department of Small Business Services. And it will hire 400 more in the coming weeks, she said.
''We hope and expect that that number will continue to grow,'' Ms. Kamath said. ''The state has every intention to go after additional funding.''
The storm's aftermath has also created private jobs. Areas hit by hurricanes almost always see a temporary boost in employment because of rebuilding activities, said Allison Plyer, chief demographer at the Greater New Orleans Community Data Center, which tracked employment after Hurricane Katrina. ''There will be no doubt billions of dollars of private and flood insurance to rebuild homes and businesses,'' she said.
But few of those jobs will last. Many will go to out-of-state contractors. And not everyone who is out of work can fill labor-intensive cleanup positions.
Ms. Plyer also cautioned against using the experience of Hurricane Katrina to predict what will happen after Hurricane Sandy.
After Hurricane Katrina, residential areas were destroyed, while New Orleans's business district remained relatively intact. Businesses bounced back, but the housing stock and the area's population did not, leaving employers seeking workers. ''Unemployment rates sunk to their lowest level,'' Ms. Plyer said, continuing: ''All the McDonald's were offering signing bonuses. You couldn't find anyone to work for them.''
''Katrina entailed a massive population displacement that basically emptied out the city,'' she added.
On Staten Island, unemployed residents inundated a city-operated career center in St. George after the storm. About 500 people showed up during two days to apply for 240 storm cleanup jobs. (Normally 350 individuals will seek employment assistance during a five-day week.)
Mr. Valle, who once worked as a customer service representative, waited outside the center hoping to land one of those cleanup jobs. He left when all the positions had been filled.
''That was like an audition for 'American Idol,' '' he said. ''I have never been in line with 500, 600 people for a job in my life.''
His wife, he said, had been their support for the last three years. ''Sandy just yanked that from under us,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Cleanup at the Madelaine Chocolate Company in Far Rockaway, Queens. It is the Rockaways' largest employer, with 450 workers. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ULI SEIT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONFECTIONERY MFG (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RECESSION (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); LAYOFFS (78%); OVERTIME (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); NATURAL DISASTERS (76%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); HURRICANE SANDY (71%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (70%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); FURNITURE STORES (50%); MATTRESSES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



924 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 

LENGTH: 182 words

HEADLINE: Hailing a Cab With an App

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Apps to Regulate Apps'' (Op-Ed, Dec. 20): 
Tim Wu is right that the taxi industry wields regulation to protect established players and stifle innovation, and that cities need a new approach to regulation. However, we believe that new innovation-friendly regulatory approaches are already bearing fruit.
In New York City, the Taxi and Limousine Commission just passed a pilot e-hail program to accommodate Uber's innovation in the taxi market. And earlier this month, Uber worked with Washington, D.C., to pass a legislative framework for ''digital dispatch'' for black cars that should serve as model legislation for the nation.
Transparency in pricing is crucial to the digital dispatch future, which is why Uber's application includes fare estimates and alerts for riders about any price changes during peak times. Cities that want to catch up with New York and Washington's digital economies and their resulting job growth would get a jump-start by following their lead on regulatory innovation.
TRAVIS KALANICK Chief Executive, Uber Technologies San Francisco, Dec. 21, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (92%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



925 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1022 words

HEADLINE: Developers of Wind Farms Run a Race Against the Calendar

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Forget about parties, resolutions or watching the ball drop. To Iberdrola Renewables, New Year's Eve will mean checking on last-minute details like the data connections between 169 new wind turbines in New Hampshire, Massachusetts and California and its control center in Portland, Ore.
All over the country, developers are in a sprint to get new wind farms up and running before Tuesday, when two subsidies will disappear like Cinderella's ball gown. After that, the nation's wind-farm building will be at a virtual standstill. 
The stakes of meeting the deadline are enormous. Wind turbines that are connected to the grid and in commercial service before midnight on New Year's Eve are entitled to a 2.2 cent tax credit for each kilowatt-hour they generate in their first 10 years, which comes out to about $1 million for a big turbine. Or companies can request a lump-sum payment equal to 30 percent of the construction cost.
As it stands now, those that enter service on Jan. 1 or later are out of luck.
The deadline is a bit like the April 15 one for filing income taxes, but ''there are no extensions here,'' said Paul Copleman, a spokesman for Iberdrola. To reduce the risk of missing it -- a risk that increases when managing construction projects on mountaintops in New England in the winter -- the company allowed more than a year for what are normally nine-month construction projects.
More than just individual projects are at risk; the wind industry says it expects installations to decline by 90 percent next year, with the loss of thousands of jobs. The erratic pattern of wind subsidies has spawned a boom-and-bust cycle, with supplier companies building factories that run at full production for months and then shut down when demand collapses.
The industry has long experience with drop-dead deadlines: since the wind production tax credit began in the early 1990s, for example, it has expired three times, said Elizabeth A. Salerno, director of industry data and analysis at the American Wind Energy Association, a trade group based in Washington. Each time, new installations fell from 73 percent to 93 percent, according to the association.
Congress, which last renewed the tax credit as part of the 2009 fiscal stimulus package, balked at an extension this year. Opponents argue that the money spent so far, about $14.7 billion, is enough, and that a renewal could cost about $12.2 billion were it to last for 10 years. They also complain that the tax credit allows wind machines to be profitable even when there is a surplus of electricity and the market price for it falls to zero.
The tax credit could be equal to one-sixth to one-half of the revenue from the wind turbine, depending on electricity prices in the area of the generator.
Wind advocates say that the wind production tax credit did not cost the taxpayers any money, because it stimulated economic activity, in the form of manufacturing and construction, that was taxed at the federal, state and local levels.
Iberdrola's wind farm near Rosamond, Calif., with 126 turbines, opened last week. The company said it was ''extremely optimistic'' that its 19-turbine farm in Monroe and Florida, Mass., and a 24-turbine farm in Groton, N.H., would be up and running by Monday night, but declined to say precisely when.
According to the Energy Information Administration, the statistical arm of the Energy Department, wind developers were planning to install 12,000 megawatts of wind capacity this year, but as of Nov. 30, only about 6,000 megawatts had been completed.
The remaining 6,000 megawatts works out to more than 3,000 turbines: if they are all operating by late Monday night, the wind industry will have added 12 percent to its capacity in a single month. (A megawatt is the power required by, say, everything in a full-size Walmart with an included supermarket. Over the course of a year, however, a turbine produces only about one-third of its theoretical maximum capacity.)
Iberdrola did not disclose the price of each wind farm, but the industry average is about $2 million per megawatt, meaning that the three projects may have cost a total of more than $500 million.
Wind advocates say they will seek to revive the tax credit when a new Congress convenes next month, but it will not be at the top of Congress's agenda.
With the tax credit due to expire, few developers are now taking the early steps required to establish a wind farm, like negotiating deals to sell the power and ordering the equipment. Mr. Copleman, the Iberdrola spokesman, said his company had a variety of projects ''at various stages'' but was ''unlikely to be pouring any concrete next year.''
For projects being wrapped up now, Ms. Salerno said, developers lined up power purchase agreements with utilities and then arranged financing a year and a half to two years ago, with the economics predicated on the tax credit.
The start-and-stop pattern of recent years has repeatedly affected companies up and down the chain, especially the highly specialized ones that make towers, blades and generators. Robert Thresher, a wind expert at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory, in Golden, Colo., said manufacturers were ''trying to run down their inventory so they wouldn't be caught holding turbines'' after the market collapsed in January.
A study commissioned by the wind industry predicts the loss of 37,000 jobs as a result of the credit's expiration. For example, the Spanish company Gamesa, which built the giant blades for the New Hampshire project at its factory in Ebensburg, Pa., has announced the layoffs of more than 150 workers.
Some members of Congress have proposed that the credit be renewed, perhaps with a phaseout over a few years. A one-year extension would be of little use: Ms. Salerno said it would not give developers enough time to get new projects financed, built and put on the grid before the expiration date, even if they had already completed environmental studies and obtained the various permits required.
A one-year extension would work for developers, she said, but only ''if you knew 24 months ahead of time that this was going to happen.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A newly finished 126-turbine wind farm in Rosamond, Calif. (B1)
 Iberdrola Renewables's new Manzana installation is eligible for a federal subsidy, but any such farm completed after Dec. 31 will not be. Turbine construction is expected to decline sharply in 2013. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (93%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (75%); ELECTRICITY MARKETS (74%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (54%)

COMPANY: IBERDROLA RENEWABLES INC (58%); IBERDROLA SA (58%)

TICKER: IBE (MCE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (58%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); NAICS221111 HYDROELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (58%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (58%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); OREGON, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); NORTHEAST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2013



926 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 8149 words

HEADLINE: 2012: A Look Back, and Beyond

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Every day until Dec. 31, reporters and editors from The New York Times will recall the people, teams and moments that made the last year memorable, and in some cases look ahead to 2013.
* * *
After Flash of Failure, Phelps Secures His Place in History
By Lynn Zinser
For a night or two at the London Olympics, it looked as if Michael Phelps's storied career would end in a fizzle. He had been routed in a race he had once dominated, the 400-meter individual medley, and the look on his face betrayed bewilderment. Losing was not something Phelps had ever had to learn how to do.
As everyone granted him second-class status behind the new hero Ryan Lochte, the instant caterwauling about Phelps's disappointing demise ignored one thing: whether or not Phelps is the best Olympian ever, he may be one of the best competitors. Four gold and two silver medals later, Phelps's familiar crooked grin was back, and Lochte was reduced to background noise. In what he says was his final Games, Phelps became the most decorated Olympian, finishing with 22 career medals, 18 of them gold. 
Live-blogging the events for The New York Times, I was watching every last stroke from afar, laughing while writing the latest feats of the Phelps epic. I had been in Sydney in 2000 when Phelps swam in his first Olympics as a 15-year-old, a shy, gangly kid who was welcomed to the world of big news conferences with a question about whether he had ever kissed a girl. (The non-offending reporters cringed at that one.)
That first Olympics was rather forgettable -- Phelps finished fifth in his only event, the 200-meter butterfly -- but by 2004, Phelps was the star his sport would begin to orbit around. I sat in the stands in Athens next to Phelps's mother, Debbie, as he won his first gold medal, in world-record time in the 400 I.M. She was bubbling over with emotion, and even the relentlessly even-keeled Phelps let a few of his dream-come-true thoughts play out on his face. His era had begun.
For his heroics in Beijing, I was a mere spectator, off covering other Olympic events, which was a good thing because I had probably run out of words to describe him after 2004. Nothing he did surprised me because, watching Phelps swim, it's possible to believe he can do anything. Unlike in other sports, the truly magical competitors in swimming appear to be expending so much less energy than anyone else. Phelps glides through the water as if propelled by some supernatural force.
The magic of 2012 was that he had to work for it, really work for it, and the effort was visible this time. No longer was winning those races a given, and as he pulled himself out of the pool each time, every ache showed. The superhero was indeed human, but underestimating him was never wise.
* * *
A Superstar Goes Down, but the Yanks Fight On
By Patty LaDuca
On the afternoon of May 3, my Times colleague David Waldstein delivered the news on Twitter: ''Mariano Rivera appears to have been injured in outfield during BP. He is being taken off the field on a cart. Looks bad.''
My heart sank.
The Yankees, about to start a four-game series against the Royals in Kansas City, were 13-11 and in fourth place in the American League East. This news seemed like the end of hope for the season and perhaps the end of Rivera's illustrious career.
We soon learned that he had torn the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while chasing a fly ball, an activity he had always enjoyed but now seemed foolish. Before he could have surgery to repair it, a blood clot developed in his calf, a common complication in older patients like Rivera, then 42.
The most dominant and durable closer in baseball history, he was the glue that held the Yankees together for 15 years. How could they make up any ground after losing him for the rest of the season, let alone make the playoffs?
Turns out that they could. Rafael Soriano filled in ably in the bullpen, posting 42 saves and taking his place in my book among the pantheon of Yankees closers like Dave Righetti, Sparky Lyle, Goose Gossage and John (Walk the Bases Loaded, Then Strike Out the Side) Wetteland. The Yankees won 95 games and the American League East title.
In the playoffs, relief pitching was the least of the Yankees' problems. Their bats were feeble (.211 average) as they squeaked past Baltimore in a five-game division series and went silent (.157) as Detroitswept them in the A.L. Championship Series.
It turned out the injury would not mean the end of Rivera's career either. He announced in no uncertain terms that he would return in 2013, rested and ready at 43.
''I'm coming back,'' he said the day after his injury. ''Write it down in big letters.''
My heart sang.
* * *
Giants, Again Needing Hero, Find One Along the Sideline
By Ben Shpigel
The Giants have this thing about artistic, brilliant, darn-near-impossible fourth-quarter catches in Super Bowl victories against New England. Mainly, they make them. And mainly, the catches are made by receivers who in the moment demand a formal introduction to the public at large -- but only then, never again.
Say the name Mario Manningham to most any football fan, and there is instant recognition, followed perhaps by wonderment: how did he haul in that pass while keeping both feet inbounds?
Like David Tyree before him, Manningham had a sense of occasion that February night, at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, where the Giants toasted another improbable championship, their second in five seasons. They defeated New England, 21-17, because of Eli Manning's arm and a stingy defense and a reluctant touchdown by Ahmad Bradshaw, but mostly because Manningham's feet stopped growing when they did.
They are size 11. Anything bigger and, he said afterward, ''I would have been out.'' He was not exaggerating, either.
The Giants trailed, 17-15, with 3 minutes 46 seconds remaining. The ball was at their 12 when Manning, with Vince Wilfork's hand in his face, heaved an arcing, perfect pass down the near sideline, the Patriots' sideline, where Manningham was running, having beaten safety Sterling Moore at the line of scrimmage.
''Step up,'' Manningham said he told himself. ''Dig deep.''
Across the field stood Tyree, the Giants' talisman. He entered franchise lore by pinning the football against his helmet in the Super Bowl four years before, extending the winning drive. On this night, Manningham needed only his fingertips and toes, no helmet. As another safety, Patrick Chung, closed in, Manningham reached out his hands. The ball, lofted over his shoulder, fell in. His right foot touched the ground first, and then his left, his size 11s both inbounds but barely.
Eight plays later, the Giants scored what proved to be the winning touchdown. A raucous celebration soon followed, and the afterglow lasted for weeks. By mid-March, though, Manningham was no longer a Giant, off to San Francisco, to play for the 49ers. He was gone, yes. But forgotten? Never.
* * *
A Triumph for Zambia Near the Site of a Tragedy
By David Waldstein
Perhaps it was destiny's hand that guided Zambia to one of the most remarkable victories in the history of the African Cup of Nations last February, or maybe it was just poetic coincidence.
The emotional championship was secured just a few hundred yards from the site of the plane crash off the coast of Libreville, Gabon, that killed a previous Zambian team 19 years earlier, and it produced a moment of long-awaited joy for the impoverished southern African nation.
It was the first time the under-regarded Zambians, known as the Chipolopolo (copper bullets), won the title in the 55-year history of the tournament, and it was also the first time the tournament was held in Gabon. It took 15 penalty kicks to ultimately vanquish a powerful Ivory Coast team, which boasted stars like Didier Drogba, Yaya Touré and Salomon Kalou.
On April 27, 1993, the Zambian national soccer team was on a flight from Lusaka, Zambia, to Senegal for a World Cup qualifying match when its plane plunged into the ocean off the coast of Libreville. All 30 people on board, including 18 members of a strong team, died.
That team held great promise for Zambia, with legitimate hopes of winning that year's African Cup and qualifying for the 1994 World Cup. Some of the players were on the team that stunned Italy, 4-0, in the 1988 Olympics, the first thrashing of a European power by an African team in any major competition. The electrifying Kalusha Bwalya, who scored a hat trick in that game, went on to be called the best player in Zambian soccer history. At the time of the crash he was traveling to Gabon from the Netherlands, where he played for the Dutch powerhouse PSV Eindhoven, so he was not on the plane.
A year later, almost single-handedly, Bwalya led the decimated Chipolopolo to a second-place finish at the 1994 African Cup in Tunisia, and later coached the national team. He later became the president of the Football Association of Zambia and was on hand in Libreville when his team finally won the cup.
Two days before the Feb. 12 final, the team visited the beach near where the plane crashed offshore, an emotional moment for everyone, but particularly for Bwalya, who lost so many teammates that night.
''I say here that their dreams are our dreams,'' Bwalya said. ''They are smiling down on heaven as we take part in this tournament in Gabon.''
In the tense, hard-fought game, all seemed lost for Zambia when the Ivoirians were awarded a penalty in the 70th minute. But Drogba shot high, and the game eventually went to penalty kicks. After 14 kicks, the sides were even, but on the 15th, Stoppila Sunzu sizzled one into the top corner. Zambia had an incomparable 8-7 victory.
For some back in Zambia, the spirit of the 18 lost players clearly had a hand in the outcome.
''We know what we wanted to honor this evening,'' Zambia's coach, Herve Renard, said afterward. ''It was a sign of destiny, written in the sky; there was a force with us.''
* * *
Finding Hope in Football, and Providing It
By Jeré Longman
Kickoff for the Pennsylvania state championship game was minutes away. Music and a taped inspirational speech filled the Clairton High School locker room. But Terrish Webb sat outside on a set of concrete steps. He wiped tears from his eyes.
''I miss my dad,'' Webb, 17, told his close friend and teammate Robby Boatwright, who gave him a hug.
''I got your back,'' Boatwright said. ''I love you.''
Six years earlier, almost to the day, Webb's father had been shot to death as he drove his car in the late afternoon near the football field in Clairton, a frayed steel mill town south of Pittsburgh. Webb was 11 at the time. The case has never been solved.
''When you have tragedy like that in your immediate family, some kids tend to go the wrong way,'' said Wayne Wade, a former star quarterback at Clairton who is now the team's defensive coordinator. ''They can't handle it. They start to question themselves. Why me? They look into different avenues to go, which are negative. Terrish found a positive one in football with a lot of his friends. They vowed a long time ago that they wanted to win state championships and they did all the right things to do it.''
Clairton fell on hard times when the steel industry collapsed in the 1980s. Much of its downtown is abandoned, boarded up. But football has provided a glimmer of hope amid the civic gloominess. Webb caught a 21-yard touchdown pass in a 20-0 victory in the Class A title game on Dec. 14 at Hersheypark Stadium, helping Clairton to a fourth consecutive state championship and its 63rd consecutive win, the nation's longest current winning streak.
A 6-foot-1 receiver and cornerback, Webb caught 16 touchdown passes, rushed for 4 touchdowns and intercepted 8 passes this season. He is also the senior class president and ranks second in his class with a 3.8 grade-point average. He is considering playing college football at Kent State, Pittsburgh or Toledo.
''That's a special person who can come back from such adversity,'' Tom Nola, Clairton's coach, said of Webb. ''He's the best student on the team. He's going to college. He's going to make something of his life. My hat's off to him.''
Nola credited Webb's mother, Tinisha Webb, who works as an administrative assistant at a hospital in suburban Pittsburgh, with keeping Terrish from despair and stressing the importance of education. His friends, too, vowed that they would not succumb to the temptations and violence of a city where nearly a quarter of the 6,796 residents live below the poverty level.
''People think this is just football,'' Webb said. ''This is more than football to us. This is the way out from where we come from.''
* * *
In Pictures | Football
* * *
Bid to Win Triple Crown Ends in Barn at Belmont
By Melissa Hoppert
It was a sun-drenched Friday morning at Belmont Park, and with an elusive Triple Crown on the line, the employees and even the horses seemed to have an extra bounce in their step.
One day stood between I'll Have Another and the history books: he had a chance to be the 12th Triple Crown winner and the first since Affirmed in 1978.
It had already been a magical run for the underdog colt and jockey Mario Gutierrez, who had won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes in thrilling fashion.
Not many people were at the trainer Doug O'Neill's barn at 9:30 a.m. that day, but those who were appeared in good spirits, hardly letting on that something was amiss with the champion colt.
O'Neill was said to be dealing with the arrival of his family, but in hindsight, he had bigger worries than travel arrangements.
By 11:30, O'Neill had confirmed on the Dan Patrick radio show that I'll Have Another was out of the Belmont Stakes with a tendon injury.
As word began to travel around Belmont Park, and the news media swarmed the detention barn, people were in a state of disbelief. One track worker called home: ''Did you hear that? They scratched the horse!'' Another said, ''I hear that he's never going to race again.'' A horseplayer threw his program and shouted, ''Unbelievable.''
Jimmy Crennan of nearby Williston Park, Long Island, who had been to every Belmont since 1980, was sitting in the backyard area. His thoughts? ''Shock and disappointment.''
''It's like the air comes out of the balloon,'' he said. ''I got here today, and I was in such good spirits.
''I'm sure there will be 30,000 less people here tomorrow now.''
Steve Wolfson, the son of Louis Wolfson, the owner of Affirmed, said: ''What a disappointment. It's just such a daunting task, and then for this to happen. I really feel bad about it, for the horse, for Doug O'Neill and Mario Gutierrez and for the public. It's really sad.''
The race went on, however, and a crowd of 85,811, the largest on a non-Triple Crown day, watched as Union Rags charged past Paynter to capture the Belmont Stakes.
I'll Have Another is now standing stud in Japan. But perhaps the story is not finished. His former owner, Paul Reddam, and O'Neill have another Derby contender for 2013: He's Had Enough.
* * *
A League's Ruinous Battle Against Itself
By Jeff Z. Klein
Bill Daly, the N.H.L.'s deputy commissioner, is a man not normally given to purple public statements. But when he said ''the hill we will die on'' during a news conference Dec. 6, he angrily summed up where the N.H.L. went in a ruinous 2012.
Daly used that phrase while standing next to Commissioner Gary Bettman, who was visibly shaking with rage, as they explained why they had just rejected the players' latest proposal and extended the N.H.L.'s lockout.
''Term limits on player contracts, which is the hill we will die on,'' Daly said.
It was a telling choice of words -- an utterance so evocative of gallant sacrifice and heroic last stands, yet made in connection with a mere business issue.
But that is how Bettman, Daly and the N.H.L. owners seem to view this lockout: as a kind of apocalyptic battle in which the players union must be defeated, even if the world must be brought down to do so.
Some blame Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, for the impasse. But Fehr was not around for the N.H.L. lockout in 1994-95, or the one that wiped out the 2004-5 season -- nobody in the union leadership was.
The only people in leadership positions during all three lockouts are on the league side: Bettman; Jeremy Jacobs, the Boston Bruins' owner; and Bob Batterman, the Proskauer Rose lawyer known for directing sports lockouts. (Daly was a key player in the last two lockouts.)
Lockouts are now a habit with the N.H.L., and this one will continue into 2013, even though the players have made most of the concessions and Bettman is excoriated by figures as diverse as Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey (''This is the third time this has happened in recent memory -- you know, that's bad management'') and the president of the Kontinental Hockey League, Alexander Medvedev (''How egotistical the N.H.L. is -- financial issues trump the development of the game for them'').
Even if a settlement is reached in the weeks to come, the damage has been done: many avid fans have lost interest, and the N.H.L. has slid back into the near irrelevance in the American sports landscape that it only recently escaped after so many years of struggle.
Daly was talking about contract lengths when he used the ominous phrase, but in the larger sense, he was right. This lockout may indeed be the hill the N.H.L. will die on.
* * *
Losing Marathon, and Heart
By Ken Belson
A wise editor once said, It takes years to build trust and a minute to erase it. He was talking about the news business, but he could also have been talking about New York Road Runners.
The group has spent decades turning its five-borough race, the New York City Marathon, into a 26.2-mile international celebration that unites millions of New Yorkers in the streets every November. It has become one of the city's most heartwarming events.
But much of that good will was swept away after Hurricane Sandy pummeled the city. Rather than cancel the race, which was scheduled for less than a week after the storm, and give its food, water and supplies to the newly homeless or ask runners to donate their entry fees to relief efforts, the running group, egged on by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, forged ahead.
''It's a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you know, you've got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind,'' Bloomberg said that week.
The decision backfired. Instead of bucking up the city's spirits, the race became a lightning rod for critics -- including many runners -- who saw Bloomberg and Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, as callous elitists more willing to host out-of-town athletes than to help shivering residents on Staten Island.
When political rivals took aim at him and protesters threatened to disrupt the race, Bloomberg was finally persuaded to call off the race, leaving Wittenberg to repair the event's tattered image. In waiting until the city reached full boil, the mayor and Wittenberg had many asking, What were they thinking?
Institutional inertia was partly to blame. New York Road Runners spends a year preparing for the race; no doubt Wittenberg was reluctant to throw all that work away.
But hubris played a role, too. Did the mayor really believe it was a good idea for police officers, emergency medical technicians and other public workers to man a road race instead of caring for the city's neediest? Did Wittenberg really think the average Joe in Brooklyn was in the mood to cheer for runners who had plenty of food while others scrounged for a meal?
With Bloomberg leaving office in a year, it will be up to Wittenberg to do the tough work of rebuilding the Road Runners brand and winning back the city's heart. Perhaps the hard lessons learned after the storm will not be forgotten.
* * *
In Pictures | Soccer: Olympics, Euro 2012 and Beckham
* * *
Stretching the Invisible Borders of a Sport
By Juliet Macur
Gabby Douglas, the spunky, fresh-faced gymnast once held back by self-doubt, was not supposed to win the gold medal in the all-around at the 2012 London Olympics.
She was what the United States women's team coordinator Martha Karolyi had called ''an average national team gymnast'' who was not even expected to beat a teammate, Jordyn Wieber, the reigning world champion in the all-around. To Karolyi, Wieber was the second coming of Nadia Comaneci, and Douglas was just a sidekick, too inexperienced and unfocused to perform when it counted the most.
But the 16-year-old Douglas skyrocketed to the top of the sport in a matter of five months.
With uncanny steadiness and precision, she won the all-around title at the Olympics -- the first black gymnast to earn the top spot and only the fourth American woman to do so. Afterward, she let out her trademark giggle and said, ''Wow, I believed in myself!'' as if she even amazed herself that she had pulled off what was once unthinkable.
As she stood atop the Olympic podium, Douglas beamed at her family members in the arena as they wiped away tears. Her mother, Natalie Hawkins, a plucky single mother of four, and Douglas's three siblings hugged one another and said, again and again, that all their sacrifices were worth it.
The biggest sacrifice was losing Douglas for nearly two years. In 2010, at age 14, she left her family in Virginia Beach, Va., to train in Iowa with Liang Chow, the coach who had helped Shawn Johnson win an Olympic gold medal in 2008. Douglas lived with a host family because her own family could not afford to pay for her housing.
Though that family, the Partons, was kind and generous, with four young daughters who soon looked to Douglas as a big sister, Douglas felt awkward at first. She missed sleeping in her own bed. She missed her two dogs. And she missed the beach, where she loved to go boogie boarding. She nearly quit the sport because she was so homesick.
But her resolve to stick with it paid off. In March, Douglas recorded the highest score in the women's all-around event at the American Cup, beating Wieber, the favorite to win the Olympic gold. Douglas's score didn't count, though, because she had competed as an alternate. So she stood back to watch Wieber accept the prize.
By July, Douglas had won the Olympic trials, dealing Wieber only her second all-around loss in four years. The next step: the Olympic gold.
Now Douglas has gone big time. She was featured on Corn Flakes boxes and the cover of People magazine. She was named one of the women of the year by magazines like Essence and Glamour.
Douglas had a feeling that this would be her fate.
''I have an advantage because I'm the underdog and I'm black and no one thinks I'd ever win,'' she said two months before the Olympics. ''Well, I'm going to inspire so many people. Everybody will be talking about, 'How did she come up so fast?' But I'm ready to shine.''
* * *
Every Move and Throw Under Watch
By Judy Battista
In any other camp, with any other quarterback, it would have been a simple game of catch while the cool morning mist burned off. But it was Peyton Manning and it was Denver -- Denver, that was strange enough, and John Elway was milling somewhere around those practice fields. And so there were notes to take and charts to keep, a half dozen or so reporters looking on, trying to decide if the touch was still there on the short fade routes Manning tossed over and over to receivers he was just getting to know.
Manning's recovery from four neck operations took the N.F.L. wire to wire in 2012. There were the occasional jabs he threw at the Indianapolis Colts in January as they fired one after another of the people Manning had known for years -- he said then that he was walking on eggshells. Then came his tearful news conference at which his release became official, and a coast-to-coast free agent odyssey, with helicopters and blacked-out car windows, and finally his remarkable on-field resurrection.
Manning was the dominant player of the year, given the sort of scrutiny that usually attends the vicissitudes of royal romances. We saw the video as the Colts removed the building-high pictures of him from the side of their stadium. Then we saw the video as he met surreptitiously with teams -- did the orange sweater mean anything to Manning, a former Tennessee Volunteer, on his visit to the Tennessee Titans? And then we saw the video as Manning barked at his new teammates during a game. Same as it ever was.
From the start in Denver, Manning gamely tried to lower expectations for his play, to no avail. He is still, now, with his team on the cusp of securing a playoff bye, insisting that he has much work to do -- defensive coordinators are probably sick of hearing that -- and he bristled at the dissection of his passes that accompanied his return. But it was Eric Decker, one of the receivers with whom Manning was doing extra work on the side that day in August, who may have given the best indication of what was to come months later.
''I've never seen a guy demand so much out of himself or his teammates,'' he said. ''He throws a football better than I've ever seen a quarterback throw a football. He allows us so many greater opportunities.''
In 2013, Manning may have an opportunity that even he, when he tried to throw a pass to his friend Todd Helton last year that nose-dived into the ground, might never have imagined he'd have again. The Broncos will enter the N.F.L. playoffs as one of the highest seeds, with a top-five offense supported by a top-five defense. From the nadir of his career, Manning has worked himself all the way back -- to be on, maybe, the best team he's ever had.
* * *
States Feed the Spread of Sports Wagering
By Joe Drape
Huey Long, as Louisiana's governor, promised a chicken in every pot. New York's Andrew M. Cuomo wants table games in as many corners of the state as possible, and New Jersey's Chris Christie hopes to build brick-and-mortar sports books and to make the Garden State a hub for online gambling.
They are hardly alone. From Kansas to Massachusetts, there is a gold rush by some states to embrace all forms of wagering to shore up their shrinking budgets.
Think of 2013 as a roulette wheel and a host of states with marbles in the game. New York intends to lay the groundwork for seven casinos. Ground is also likely to be broken in Massachusetts for three, including one in the Boston area.
And with Nevada having already approved online poker and begun preparing sites to be operating in early 2013, Governor Christie is certain to have the fate of Atlantic City, as well as the state's horse racing industry, in his hands as two bills continue to gather momentum.
An online gambling bill has already passed the New Jersey Assembly and Senate, and one of Internet gambling's top sites, PokerStars, is negotiating to acquire the Atlantic Club casino on the Jersey Shore.
This would be no less than a portal to the 22nd century and perhaps a mother lode for new tax revenue.
Christie has also vowed to defy a federal ban on sports wagering, and New Jersey's Legislature enacted a sports betting law in January, paving the way for sports books in Atlantic City casinos and the state's horse racing tracks.
The N.C.A.A. and three professional leagues argue that gambling hurts the integrity and perception of their games. This is an especially rich argument coming from the National Football League since two of its earliest owners, Art Rooney and Tim Mara, were gamblers. In 1936, Rooney, whose family still owns the Pittsburgh Steelers, turned two prescient days at the racetrack into $300,000. In 1925, Mara, a bookmaker, paid $500 for the Giants.
The N.F.L. injury report and betting lines certainly exist for a reason, and it's no accident that the league accounts for nearly 55 percent of the more than $1.3 billion wagered on football in Nevada in 2011.
So the leagues have done pretty well for decades alongside legalized sports gambling in Nevada, with billions more of illegal betting in bar rooms, fantasy leagues and offshore Web sites.
Now, the question being asked in state and federal courthouses is: why not take the sports book national, or even global?
* * *
After the Storm, Brooklyn's Moment
By Benjamin Hoffman
Everything had gone right for the Nets. Their new home in Brooklyn was complete, their apparel had become a huge hit among fans, they unexpectedly retained their signature star, and they were going to be able to show all of that off in a season opener against the Knicks.
Then Hurricane Sandy hit.
With the city's tunnels flooded, gasoline becoming scarce and the subway system shut down, suddenly the opener, scheduled for Nov. 1, had to be postponed and all of the excitement seemed to wither away.
Two days later, with the transit system still a mess and the city in a fierce debate over the cancellation of the marathon, it was decided that the Nets would go ahead with their scheduled game against the Toronto Raptors, a far less exciting opponent than the Knicks, risking empty seats in what they had hoped would be their grand debut.
A message posted to Twitter by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo that morning got things going in the right direction as he announced that the 4 and 5 trains would resume service, meaning that the large number of people in Manhattan hoping to see the game (including this reporter, who lives in Brooklyn but found himself working in Times Square that morning) would not have to brave the long lines for slow shuttle buses or break out their swim trunks for a jaunt across the East River.
As people shuffled onto the train at Grand Central Terminal, more than a few Nets hats were visible as everyone seemed somewhat unsure that the subways could really be back. Just days before, people had been walking to work across the Brooklyn Bridge and through a mostly abandoned and powerless downtown, but now the city was starting to feel more like itself.
Come game time, the crowd had filled out nicely, helped by a last-minute surge in ticket sales through online marketplaces like StubHub, and the Nets took the floor with Jay-Z watching and BrooklyKnight rappelling from the ceiling.
It was not a pretty game, with the Nets falling behind early and then struggling to catch up, but a strong second quarter led to the first major Brooklyn sports team since 1957 winning, 107-100.
Considering everything that had gone into the move from New Jersey, and the conditions surrounding the season's start, the actual basketball was the easy part.
* * *
A Stoicism That Can't Be Cracked
By Naila-Jean Meyers
A single clap. Andy Murray had just broken Novak Djokovic for the second time in the fifth set of the United States Open final, and all he got from his coach, Ivan Lendl, was one measly clap. In the previous set, when Murray won an exhilarating 30-shot rally and the nearly 24,000 fans at Arthur Ashe Stadium erupted, Lendl did not see fit to join that ovation either.
It was hard to take my eyes off Lendl that Monday night as the captivated crowd surrounding him gasped and roared at every lunging forehand and ripped backhand -- even with the distraction of Sean Connery sitting nearby, wrapped in a blue blanket and pumping his fist for Murray, his fellow Scot.
As a summer's day became a blustery night, as Djokovic and Murray took turns muttering to themselves, Lendl was the model of stoic calm -- awkwardly dressed in a red sweater and white shorts, often hunched over, elbow on knee, chin in hand.
But that's why he was there. That's why the mercurial Murray chose Lendl to be his coach this year. Lendl knew what it was like to come so close and fall short over and over. He knew, as Murray knew, as Britain knew. There would be no cheering until it was over.
Murray took us along on his emotional roller coaster in 2012. The heartbreak of his loss in the Wimbledon final, when he had Roger Federer on his heels, then the rain came, the roof closed, and it ended with Murray tearfully saying, ''Getting closer.'' The leap for joy one month later when Murray dismantled Federer on the same court for the Olympic gold medal, part of the crescendo of British athletic greatness at the London Games. The relief -- the word Murray chose when asked to summarize his feelings -- when he outlasted Djokovic that September night for his coveted first Grand Slam title, becoming the first British man to capture a Grand Slam singles championship since Fred Perry in 1936.
When it was really, truly over, Murray was holding the trophy and thanking his coach in front of the crowd, saying, ''I think that was almost a smile.''
The match itself was a roller coaster. Murray won the first two sets, including a 12-10 first-set tiebreaker, then saw Djokovic fight back. They played for 4 hours 54 minutes, on the 15th day of another United States Open tormented by bad weather.
For the record, it wasn't even the longest Grand Slam final this year: that was Djokovic's 5-hour-53-minute victory over Rafael Nadal at the Australian Open. It was a can-you-top-this year for men's tennis. Djokovic, Nadal, Federer and Murray each won Grand Slam tournaments. Federer reclaimed the No. 1 ranking for four months and won his first major title in two and a half years. Djokovic won six titles, returned to No. 1 and was the player of the year. All that was missing was a full-strength Nadal, who succumbed to bad knees after winning the French Open.
A liberated Murray. A persistent Djokovic. A determined Federer. A (hopefully) healthy Nadal. It's shaping up to be a 2013 season that might make even Lendl stand up and cheer.
* * *
Finding Security In a Different SEC
By Brad Smith
When I first moved to New York in 1981, I was pleasantly surprised to learn how much New Yorkers loved college football. As I moved from the South, where Saturdays in the fall rival Sundays for the holiest of days, my belief that it was a regional sport was put aside.
Virtually every day in the paper and on the news, there was a mention of the SEC. Being loyal to my own Southeastern Conference team (Florida), I was happy to know that I was living in the Greatest City in the World, which in turn was equally infatuated with the Greatest Conference in the World. But because of the Ivan Boeskys of the world, I soon learned that the Securities and Exchange Commission was not the SEC I grew up rooting for. New York's S.E.C. was not my SEC.
When I hear SEC today, thankfully, Wall Street is not at the front of my thoughts. I'm thinking of Gainesville, Tuscaloosa and Athens. And while there are similarities between the two (much of the country loathes both, for example), I'm forever locked into the one that throws the pigskin for a long gain, not the one that looks for long-term gains on pork futures. Besides, to paraphrase Babe Ruth, my SEC had a better year than that S.E.C. As a matter of fact, six in a row.
Starting with the 2006 Bowl Championship Series title game between Florida and Ohio State, the SEC has won six consecutive national championships, with four teams. (Florida, Louisiana State, Alabama and Auburn). This past January, much to the disappointment of 99 percent of the country and a television network, two SEC teams played for the title (Alabama and L.S.U.). This year, Alabama is again carrying the torch for the conference of (my) choice, and Notre Dame carrying it for, well, the other 10 conferences and the other 109 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
Division I college football has been dominated by one conference, one I'm proud to be a die-hard fan of for four decades. As I look at my increasingly small savings account, it's quite obvious I've spent way too much time following Barrett Jones rather than Dow Jones. For me, it was money well spent.
* * *
Cricket Rivalry of Nations, All for a Six-Inch Trophy
By Victor Mather
For much of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, there were fewer sure things in sports than the result of the Ashes, the cricket series held every two years between Australia and England.
Regular as clockwork, the Australians drubbed their rivals, winning eight straight series from 1989 to 2003.
But that changed in 2005, when England pulled off an upset that pushed soccer off the London tabloids' back pages. After an Australian win in 2007, the English have seemed to take over dominance with wins in 2009 and 2011. The series resumes this summer, with anticipation high in both hemispheres.
Cricket has been booming in many parts of the world, thanks to a new fast format known as Twenty20, in which matches can be completed in less than the time of a baseball game.
But the Ashes is old school. The teams play a series of five matches, each lasting five days, with six hours of play or more each day. A single player may bat for hours or even all day, gamely hitting defensive shots (something like fouling off pitches in baseball) in hopes of securing a draw. It is not for the casual fan.
But for the aficionados, there is nothing like the Ashes, especially when played, as it will be this summer, at the hallowed English grounds like Lord's and the Oval.
Most English cricket fans can tell you every detail of the match in Leeds in 1981 when their team rallied from a hopeless position (they trailed by 227 runs after one innings and bowled Australia out for 111!). And Australians love to crow about their 5-0 series sweep of 2007, the first since 1921.
The Ashes dates to 1882, when after an Australian win a newspaper published a mock obituary proclaiming the death of English cricket and stating that ''the body will be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia.'' A few weeks later, an English team went off to Australia and its captain, Ivo Bligh, vowed to return with ''the ashes.'' An Australian team presented him with a tiny urn symbolic of the Ashes. At about six inches, it is surely the smallest major sports trophy in the world.
Under a new captain, Alastair Cook, and with the mercurial superstar Kevin Pietersen back in the fold after a text messaging controversy, England is the clear favorite.
In the storied history of the series, Australia leads by 31-30. Wouldn't the English love to even that up this summer?
* * *
Falling Apart After Getting It Half Right
By Bill Pennington
Tiger Woods came off the 18th green after his second round in the 2012 P.G.A. Championship at Kiawah Island tied for the lead. Again.
It was the third consecutive major championship that Woods was in or near the lead at the halfway point.
This had once been a familiar sight -- missing maybe for a couple of years, but for more than a decade before, the golf world knew exactly how Woods looked in command of a big tournament. And fans worldwide knew the frequent outcome: 14 major victories.
But in 2012, as good as Woods could sometimes be, there was one Woods on the weekdays of major tournaments and an altogether different Woods on the weekends, especially the last three.
His average score in the first two rounds of this year's majors was 70, while his average score in the final two rounds was 72.9. It was worse than the statistics indicated -- no weekend round under par and three rounds of 74 or higher. In the final three majors, Woods's average weekday round was even lower (68.8). His weekend average was 72.8.
This was Tiger Woods, golf's ultimate closer?
Not insignificant, it was notable who stole the show from Woods on the final days of the P.G.A. As the third round began at Kiawah Island in early August, Rory McIlroy birdied five of his first nine holes. Well aware of McIlroy's fast start, Woods answered by going three over par in his first seven holes -- holes he had played in three under during the first two rounds.
Woods was not just off his game, he was having trouble keeping the ball in play. With a 15th career major on the line, he yanked tee shots onto adjacent holes, hit one shot into the crowd, flew the green on a par 3 and, at one point, hit three consecutive, dreadfully wayward shots.
In the final round the next day, McIlroy shot a 66 to win by eight strokes. Woods shot a 72 and settled for 11th. Who would have ever thought Tiger Woods would settle for anything in a championship moment?
''I've got to just keep putting myself in a position to win, and if it happens often enough, then I will win,'' Woods said afterward, uttering a line that sounded as if it came from an up-and-coming rookie waiting to break through on the PGA Tour. Except Woods turns 37 on Dec. 30.
This is not to say that Woods will not win another major. He may win two in 2013 and two more the year after that. It is certainly more promising for him that he came close three times in 2012, which was a departure from his middling performances in 2010 and 2011. But the cracks in the armor are breaches apparent to all at this point. Even as he finished the second round at the P.G.A. Championship in August -- with a chance to take the outright lead -- what did Woods do?
He three-putted the 18th green.
It may all be a part of the process that Woods likes to talk about these days. Every revival has its incremental steps forward. And every retreat has its incremental steps backward.
In time, we will see which way Woods is marching. But throughout this year, it was odd to watch him fall apart so routinely because he was the one golfer you once could routinely count on to do the opposite.
* * *
Upon Further Review, the Truth Is Revealed
By John Branch
The following story is not true -- yet.
After years of experimenting and increasing the use of instant replay to weed out errors in officiating, several American sports will no longer be held live, but entirely on replay, to ensure that there were no mistakes.
In the N.F.L., for example, the hope is to eliminate delays caused by the persistent huddling of indecisive officials and the frequent departure of the referee to watch the replay in a private sideline viewing chamber.
Now, the game itself will be the replay.
''We have to work out some of the logistics,'' N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''For example, how do we have a replay before we have an actual game? But we're optimistic that we'll solve it. We're the N.F.L.''
Replay reviews, while appreciated by those who want near perfection in officiating, have been the source of much frustration for N.F.L. fans in particular. Many insist that they have better things to do than waste an extra two or three minutes of a Sunday after having already set aside their day in three-, six- or nine-hour increments.
The N.B.A. may create a model for others to follow. It will initially conduct all its games at empty arenas, then re-enact them in front of fans so officiating crews will not be met with surprises.
Any last-second baskets, or long jump shots made with a toe imperceptibly close to the 3-point line, will have been rehearsed. That will prevent the familiar momentum-killing sight of officiating crews bent over tiny sideline replay monitors while fans around the globe are forced to wait, as if they have time for that.
Now, the outcome of the play will be known before it happens.
''We really feel this will speed up our games,'' N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said in a statement.
Major League Baseball finds replay useful mostly in determining whether a ball lands over a large fence or in front of the fence, or on one side of an enormous neon-colored pole or the other. Rather than relying on replay, baseball is considering whether to gauge home runs by watching to see if the ball goes over the large fence and on one side of the nearest enormous neon-colored pole.
The N.C.A.A. may eliminate the use of instant replay. The outcomes of the games are not important, an N.C.A.A. spokesman said, because what matters most is that the athletes get a good education. Human fallibility is a worthy lesson, he added.
The impetus for all the changes came from last summer's United States Olympic track and field trials, during which Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh tied in the 100 meters. No number of replays -- or discussions over the exact location of the torso -- could discern a winner.
The delay was not minutes, but days. Finally, the answer came straight from the schoolyard: a do-over.
Alas, a runoff never happened; Tarmoh declined to take part.
Still, it made sports executives realize that if we simply had the final answer in the first place, fans would not be forced to wait for the result. The solution, in front of us all along, is simply to make replay the game itself.
* * *
What Might Have Been, or Still Could Be
By Barry Bearak
When Derrick Rose went down with a torn-up left knee, it was hard not to contemplate the career he might never have: the lost Most Valuable Player awards and the never-to-be-won N.B.A. titles. The Chicago Bulls announcer Stacey King liked to describe the electrifying Rose as ''too big, too strong, too fast, too good.''
Was he now to add ''too sad''?
The post-Michael Jordan Bulls were a dismal, star-crossed team, suffering a decade of mediocrity until a gust of good luck blew their way. In the 2008 draft, the team vaulted from the No. 9 spot to No. 1, hitting the jackpot when they had only a 1.7 percent chance to win the lottery.
Rose, a 19-year-old point guard and Chicago native, became the rookie of the year and then an All-Star, then the league's youngest M.V.P. ever, leading the Bulls to the N.B.A.'s best record two years in a row. He was also likable in a Windy City sort of way: not a preening, partying prima donna, but a guy who squared his big shoulders and quietly went about his business.
In the strike-shortened 2011-12 season, Rose missed 27 of the 66 games with injuries that seemed to skip up and down his lower extremities: the foot, the ankle, the knee, the groin. But he was healthy in April when the playoffs began, and in the first game of the opening series, the top-seeded Bulls were easily beating the Philadelphia 76ers.
Then, with 1 minute 22 seconds left and Chicago ahead by 12, Rose moved toward the hoop with the ball, cutting right in his customary whirligig fashion, though this time awkwardly planting his left foot on the floor. He heard a pop. He had torn the anterior cruciate ligament.
Rose writhed in pain. The arena went silent. And the long months of wondering began. Would a reborn Derrick Rose with a rebuilt knee ever again come gyrating through the lane -- too big, too strong, too fast, too good -- looking every bit as amazing as the original?
* * *
No Place to Hide When a Ball Comes Back
By Tyler Kepner
It was an ordinary pitch, 91 miles per hour on the outside corner, not much different from the 1,651 others Brandon McCarthy had thrown last season. From the press box at Oakland Coliseum that September afternoon, it looked for an instant like a routine single to center by the Angels' Erick Aybar.
But the ball never got there. It crashed into the back of McCarthy's head. He tried to escape its path but could not react in time. McCarthy, then with the Athletics, crumpled to the ground. It was a moment that made you wince -- ''It was really hard to see,'' his opponent, Dan Haren, said after the game -- but McCarthy sat up almost instantly, running his hands through his hair, and he walked off the field. Disaster averted.
Again, a wrong assumption, or nearly so. McCarthy was taken to a hospital for a precautionary examination, and soon, he was in surgery. The line drive had fractured his skull and caused an epidural hemorrhage and brain contusion. McCarthy recovered but missed the rest of the season.
The next month, across the bay in San Francisco in Game 2 of the World Series, another tall and lanky right-hander threw another pitch destined for danger. Doug Fister of the Detroit Tigers took a liner off the right side of his head from the Giants' Gregor Blanco. Yet Fister did not even fall. After an exam on the mound, he kept pitching.
''Got a little bump,'' he said by his locker, casually. ''Other than that, there's nothing.''
The events were harrowing reminders of the destructive force of a batted ball, and the varying consequences of two hits that may look the same. McCarthy was lucky to be alive; Fister was luckier still. But a first-base coach in the minors, Mike Coolbaugh, was killed by a foul ball in 2007. Now all base coaches in the minors and the majors wear helmets.
After Fister was struck, the Fox broadcaster Tim McCarver raised on the air the possibility of pitchers' wearing helmets. Some players lampooned the idea on Twitter, but in December, ESPN reported that baseball was working with six companies designing protective headgear for pitchers. A selection of prototypes could be available in time for spring training.
Hitters have been slow to accept safer, oversize helmets, and a padded pitcher's cap would seem to face similar resistance. Pitchers depend on precise, repetitive movements and will be wary of anything disruptive. Besides, nobody wants to look funny.
Comfort, style and safety are often competing interests. Sometimes, though, they could come together to save a pitcher's life. Let's hope it happens soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN PICTURES: FOOTBALL: From the Hard to Believe to the Hard to Accept: Mario Manningham, above, hauled in a catch along the sideline in the fourth quarter of the Super Bowl. The Giants went on to beat the Patriots, 21-17. In the off-season, the Jets acquired Tim Tebow, below left, and dissension over who should play at quarterback built as Mark Sanchez struggled. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BEN SOLOMON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Michael Phelps, left, in the 200-meter I.M. in London. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mariano Rivera tore an anterior cruciate ligament while chasing a fly ball during batting practice on May 3. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY STUBBLEBINE/REUTERS) (B8)
A statue of Joe Paterno outside Penn State's Beaver Stadium was removed, above, in the wake of the sexual abuse scandal involving Paterno's former assistant Jerry Sandusky. The Vikings' Adrian Peterson, below, returned from a serious knee injury sustained last December to lead the N.F.L. in rushing and challenge the single-season record. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK SMITH/GETTY IMAGES
ERIC MILLER/REUTERS)
 Zambian players celebrating their victory over Ivory Coast in the African Cup of Nations final in Libreville, Gabon. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ISSOUF SANOGO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESS -- GETTY IMAGES) (B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SWIMMING (89%); SPORTS (89%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (89%); BASEBALL (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA VIKINGS (59%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (59%); NEW YORK GIANTS (59%); NEW YORK JETS (59%)

PERSON: MICHAEL PHELPS (92%); JOE PATERNO (79%); JERRY SANDUSKY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); ZAMBIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GABON (79%); COTE D'IVOIRE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



927 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 801 words

HEADLINE: Talks Planned, but Only Muted Hope for Fiscal Deal

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN; Jackie Calmes and Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama will meet with Congressional leaders on Friday, and House Republicans summoned lawmakers back for a Sunday session, in a last-ditch effort to avert a fiscal crisis brought on by automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to hit next week.
Republicans expressed a flicker of hope Thursday that a deal could still be reached to at least avert most of the tax increases on Jan. 1, to prevent a sudden cut in payments to medical providers treating Medicare patients and to extend expiring unemployment benefits. But both parties' leaders said time is running out. 
''Here we are, five days from the New Year, and we might finally start talking,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Senate Republican leader.
The overriding emotion Thursday, as senators convened for a rare session between Christmas and New Year's Day, appeared to be embarrassment. The continuing impasse ''demonstrates a tremendous lack of courage here in Washington to address the issues that need to be addressed -- at every level,'' said Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee.
Lawmakers and aides from both parties cautioned that the burst of activity could be more about making sure the other side gets the blame than any real search for a resolution before the Jan. 1 deadline. Under Senate rules, no deal could run the gantlet of procedural hurdles in time for a final vote before the deadline without all the senators agreeing not to slow progress.
''I have to be very honest,'' Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, said Thursday. ''I don't know timewise how it can happen now.''
White House officials continued to put the onus on Republicans to clear a procedural path to a quick vote on a negotiated deal.
''The only way America goes over the cliff is if the Republican leaders in the House and the Senate decide to push us by blocking passage of bills to extend tax cuts or the middle class,'' said the White House communications director Dan Pfeiffer. ''It's a question of their willingness to put country before party.''
Republicans said there was nothing preventing Mr. Reid from putting formal legislation on the Senate floor, and to date, no such bill has been written.
But the contours of a fallback deal did come into view Thursday, even as the will to achieve it lagged behind.
Republicans involved in the talks said both sides would probably be able to agree to extend expiring Bush-era tax cuts up to some income threshold higher than Mr. Obama's $250,000 cutoff but lower than the $1 million sought by the House speaker, John A. Boehner. To that, leaders would probably agree to add provisions to stop the alternative minimum tax from suddenly enlarging to hit more middle class households, and possibly to extend expiring unemployment benefits.
Republicans would be far less receptive to Mr. Obama's call to temporarily suspend across-the-board spending cuts unless such a suspension was accompanied by significant and immediate spending cuts elsewhere.
But no such deal could be reached without significant, face-to-face negotiations between the president, Senate leaders and House leaders, aides said. McConnell aides said a phone call between the president and the Senate Republican leader Wednesday night was the first outreach Mr. McConnell has had from any Democrat since Thanksgiving.
''It appears to me the action, if there is any, will be on the Senate side,'' Mr. McConnell said Thursday afternoon on the Senate floor.
After a House Republican leadership conference call on Thursday, Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the majority leader, announced that House members would return to Washington on Sunday for legislative business, with votes in the evening. Lawmakers were warned that the House might be in session through Jan. 2, the day the 112th Congress disbands. The next day, the 113th Congress will convene, wiping out any unfinished work of the past two years.
Between such glimmers of hope, the talk in Washington on Thursday was anything but conciliatory. Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the No. 2 House Democrat, said Republicans would use an imminent fight over raising the government's statutory borrowing limit to fight for big spending cuts, and compared that to taking one's own child hostage and threatening to kill it.
On the Senate floor Thursday, Mr. Reid excoriated House Republicans for failing to consider a Senate-passed measure that would extend lower tax rates on household income up to $250,000. He urged House members to return to the Capitol to put together at least a modest deal to avoid the more than a half-trillion dollars in automatic tax increases and spending cuts set to begin in January.
''The American people are waiting for the ball to drop,'' Mr. Reid said, ''but it's not going to be a good drop.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, left, at the Capitol on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T.J. KIRKPATRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CHRISTMAS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (66%); MEDICARE (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); MITCH MCCONNELL (73%); BOB CORKER (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



928 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 381 words

HEADLINE: IHT Quick Read: Dec. 28

BYLINE: THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE


HIGHLIGHT: Harsh Islamist justice in Mali; Putin says American adoptions will end; more meetings as the fiscal cliff looms; better conditions in Chinese plants; a silver lining for Spain. 

 BODY:
 NEWS Even as the world makes plans to recapture northern Mali by force, the Islamists who rule the region show no qualms about continuing their harsh application of Shariah law. At least 14 amputations have been performed since the takeover last spring, and Islamists have warned that others "will soon share the same fate." Adam Nossiter reports from Bamako, Mali. 
President Obama planned to meet with Congressional leaders on Friday, and House Republicans summoned lawmakers back for a Sunday session, in a last-ditch effort to avert a fiscal crisis brought on by automatic tax increases and spending cuts scheduled to hit the United States next week. Jonathan Weisman reports from Washington.
President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia said Thursday that he would sign into law a ban on adoptions of Russian children by American citizens, retaliating against a new U.S. law that seeks to punish human rights abuses and dealing a serious blow to bilateral relations. David M. Herszenhorn and Erik Eckholm report.
Despite the economic gloom that has enshrouded it, Spain has at least one industrial bright spot: The country and its skilled, if underemployed, work force have again become a beacon for European carmakers. Raphael Minder reports from Madrid.
Conditions in Chinese electronics factories have begun to improve since workers' hardships were exposed to a global audience. The shifts under way may prove as transformative to global manufacturing as the iPhone was to consumer technology, say company executives, worker advocates and even longtime factory critics. Keith Bradsher and Charles Duhigg report.
 ARTS Tory Dobrin, the artistic director of the all-male drag company Les Ballets Trockadero de Monte Carlo (known affectionately as the Trocks), dreamed for years of bringing the Soviet-era ballet "Laurencia" to life. Now he has. And while the Trocks have taken on obscure works before, this one posed special challenges. Valerie Gladstone reports from New York.
 SPORTS Sled hockey is a sport played by able-bodied people, but it was designed for athletes with mobility limitations caused by injuries or conditions like cerebral palsy. The pace is slower than ice hockey's, but the action can be just as ferocious. Dave Caldwell reports from Newington, Connecticut.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); WINTER SPORTS (85%); WHEELCHAIR & DISABILITY SPORTS (77%); TAKEOVERS (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); TAX LAW (72%); LABOR FORCE (72%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); SPORTS (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION (67%); ICE HOCKEY (67%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (66%); CEREBRAL PALSY (66%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (66%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (66%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (53%); AUTOMAKERS (51%) IHT Rendezvous

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) MALI (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); SPAIN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2012



929 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: A Double Shot of Misunderstanding

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The CEO of Starbucks needs to wake up and smell the coffee. 

 BODY:
One of the enduring fantasies of the pundit class - most dramatically demonstrated by the ludicrous Politico piece on What Insiders Know - is that all we need to fix our economic problems is to get the great and the good together and bypass those pesky elected officials. Business leaders, in particular, are presumed to have the know-how to deal with all the important issues. 
But the reality is that the business leaders intervening in our economic debate are, for the most part, either predatory or hopelessly confused (or, I guess, both).
I'd put Fix the Debt in the predatory category; it's quite clear that the organization (which is yet another Pete Peterson front, this time explicitly dominated by corporate interests) has an agenda more focused on cutting social insurance and corporate taxes than on reducing the deficit per se. 
Meanwhile, Howard Schultz, the CEO of Starbucks, exemplifies the hopeless confusion factor. By all accounts, he's a good guy, with genuinely generous instincts. But in his message to employees, urging them to write "come together" on coffee cups, he gets the nature of the fiscal cliff completely wrong. In fact, he gets it wrong in two fundamental ways. He writes:
As many of you know, our elected officials in Washington D.C. have been unable to come together and compromise to solve the tremendously important, time-sensitive issue to fix the national debt.
OK, first of all, the fiscal cliff is NOT A DEBT PROBLEM. In fact, it's the opposite: the danger is that with expiring tax cuts, expiring unemployment benefits, and the sequester, we'll reduce the deficit too fast. Deficit scolds are having a hard time reconciling their sudden concern about excessive deficit reduction with everything they were saying before - and evidently Mr. Schultz hasn't gotten the message that we are now at war with Eastasia, and always have been.
And then, on top of that, he has the politics all wrong, in the characteristic centrist way: he makes it sound as if the problem was one of symmetric partisanship, with both sides refusing to compromise. The reality is that Obama has moved a huge way both in offering to exempt more high-earner income from tax hikes and in offering to cut Social Security benefits; meanwhile, the GOP not only won't agree to any kind of tax hike at all, it also has yet to make any specific offer of any kind. 
So that's a double shot of total misunderstanding. And you could say that there's yet a third error in Schultz's message - amongst his errors? For he sends people, in the name of public-spiritedness, to Fix the Debt - who, as I've already pointed out, are not good guys at all.
It's quite sad, really. And it's also an indication that Republican extremism isn't the only source of our dysfunctional response to economic crisis, that the awesome inability of Very Serious People to come to grips with either political or economic reality is another huge source of our failure.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAX INCREASES (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAX RELIEF (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%)

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (72%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); PETE PETERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



930 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Policy Implications of Capital-Biased Technology: Opening Remarks

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Social insurance, still affordable, and more necessary than ever. 

 BODY:
I'll be writing more about this in weeks to come, but I guess I'd better say something right away about the implications of a declining labor share in GDP. Again, the data so far look like this: 
(By the way, some commenters, weirdly, think that this is not the basic BEA data. It is; just check the sourcing at FRED).
So, if the recent plunge in the labor share is the shape of things to come, what difference might it make?
The short answer is that it will pose problems for the current mechanisms by which we fund social insurance programs; but it will not undermine our ability to afford those programs, and it would in fact be cruel and basically irrational to slash social insurance in response to a declining labor share.
OK, maybe that was too quick. Let me take it more slowly: a substantial part of our social insurance system -- Social Security and the hospital insurance portion of Medicare -- is funded through dedicated payroll taxes. If payrolls lag behind overall national income, this will tend to leave those programs underfunded given the way the laws are currently written.
But America as a whole won't have gotten poorer: the money is still there to support the programs, it's just coming in the form of capital rather than labor income. There would be no problem, at least in economic terms, in continuing the programs by adding revenue from general taxation, maybe even from dedicated taxes on capital income.
And consider the alternative, in which we slash Social Security and Medicare not because the nation can't afford those programs, but merely because workers are taking a smaller share of national income. What we would be doing in that case is doubling down on the damage to workers -- they're already hurting because income is shifting away from labor, and we're going to hurt them even more by cutting the benefits they depend upon. 
Actually, something like that is already happening, although it's mostly coming from rising inequality of earned income. Remember, back in the 1980s the Greenspan Commission supposedly fixed Social Security's finances for 75 years, that is, until 2060. Why, then, do most projections show the trust fund running out well before then? Not because life expectancy is rising -- that was already built into the projections. No, the big reason is rising inequality, which has led to a growing share of income coming above the payroll tax cap, so that SS revenue lags behind overall compensation. And yet the conventional wisdom is that we should respond to a financing issue caused by rising inequality by slashing benefits, further increasing inequality.
We should keep this line of argument in mind -- and when somebody talks about the need to rein in entitlements, we should always ask whose interests, exactly, are being served.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX LAW (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



931 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The New Old Age)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: United States Lags in Alzheimer's Support

BYLINE: JUDITH GRAHAM


HIGHLIGHT: A Senate report highlights several trends related to care for people with Alzheimer's disease in five countries. 

 BODY:
This month, the United States Senate Special Committee on Aging released a report examining how five nations - the United States, Australia, France, Japan and Britain - are responding to growing numbers of older adults with Alzheimer's disease and dementia. 
Every country has a strategy, but some are much further ahead than others. Notably, France began addressing Alzheimer's disease and dementia in 2001 and is in the midst of carrying out its third national plan. (Scroll down at this link to find the English version of the 2008-2012 French plan.) 
By contrast, the United States released its first national plan to address Alzheimer's in May. 
The Senate report highlights several trends under way in all five countries, including efforts to coordinate research more effectively, diagnose Alzheimer's disease more reliably and improve training in dementia care by medical practitioners.
Most relevant to readers of this blog is another trend with increasing international scope: an accelerating effort to keep patients with Alzheimer's disease and other forms of dementia at home and arrange for care and treatment there, rather than in institutions. 
Anyone who's followed reader response to Jane Brody's column this week on aging in place knows the burden that this can place on families, especially if government support for home-based services (companions or home health aides who help with bathing, dressing, toileting and other tasks), adult day care or respite care is scarce or nonexistent, as is the case for most middle-class families in the United States. 
Is care at home for patients with Alzheimer's necessarily more humane? Only if caregivers have the resources - financial, physical and emotional - to handle this draining, exhausting, immeasurably difficult job. And only if the institutions that serve people with more advanced forms of Alzheimer's disease and other types of dementia are so poorly financed, staffed and operated that we wouldn't feel comfortable leaving loved ones in their care.
Three charts in the new Senate report underscore the extent to which the United States differs from other countries in what is expected of family caregivers. The first, on Page 60, shows countries' support for paid long-term care services for residents age 65 and older. This includes all residents who need long-term care, including those with Alzheimer's disease, other forms of dementia and other disabling chronic illnesses. Not included are services provided by unpaid family caregivers.
Look at where the United States ranks compared with Australia, Japan, France and the 30 other developed countries that belong to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Paid support for long-term care is much less in our country than in theirs.
The second chart, on Page 64, gives a sense of how much paid support for long-term care is provided in people's homes. Again, the data is not specific to Alzheimer's disease or dementia, although these are primary reasons older adults need long-term care.
And again, the United States falls short in terms of the amount of paid care it provides in home settings, even though older people tend to prefer these settings over institutions.
The third chart, on Page 75, brings results in the other two down to the level of families. When paid long-term care support is scarce or unavailable, you would expect a heavier load to fall on unpaid caregivers, and this is what the chart shows. Look at the number of caregivers in the United States who put in 10 to 19 hours a week (34.2 percent) or 20 hours or more a week (30.5 percent), and compare those with similar figures for France, Australia and Britain, all of which provide more paid long-term care than we do. Where are informal caregivers working the hardest? Right here at home in the United States.
For me, the take-away is clear. Other countries with which the United States is closely aligned have embraced long-term care as an essential social responsibility while we have not. Unless and until we do so, caregivers here will be among the most harried, stressed and burdened among wealthy, developed countries in the world.

        
Was Pat Robertson Right?
        
Alzheimer's, Redefined
        
Forgetting the Gift
        
Caregiving and Dementia: New Ideas
        
Books to Teach Children About Alzheimer's

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (94%); AGING (91%); DEMENTIA (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); TRENDS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); FAMILY (87%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (84%); CHRONIC DISEASES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (75%); POLITICS (73%); ADULT DAY CARE (73%); HOME HEALTH CARE (72%); CAREGIVER SUPPORT (70%); DEATH & DYING (66%) Alzheimer's; caregiving; Dementia; Alzheimer's Disease; Elderly; United States Politics and Government; Senate; United States; End-of-Life Care

ORGANIZATION: Senate

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (93%); AUSTRALIA (93%); FRANCE (91%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



932 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: A Coal Sales Ticker Next to a 'Clean Energy' Claim?

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The biggest coal company in the free world says it's a "global leader in clean energy solutions." 

 BODY:
 Dec. 29, 12:38 a.m. | Updated below |Electricity, including that generated by coal combustion, has been a boon for humanity. In fact, there's much truth in the headline on Indur M. Goklany's new analysis for the anti-regulatory Cato Institute: "Humanity Unbound: How Fossil Fuels Saved Humanity from Nature and Nature from Humanity." (I'll post more on that paper soon, including an interview with Goklany.)
But that does not come close to justifying what you see on the home page of Peabody Energy, the largest coal company in the free world:
Coal Sales and a Clean Energy Claim
Just to the right of a ticker-style, real-time tally of tons of coal sold (about eight tons per second or so) is the message that the company is the* "global leader in clean energy solutions..." [Jan 2., 3:29 p.m. | Updated | A followup post is here.] 
Pollution from coal burning, in the United States and particularly in developing countries, has big impacts on public health, and the climate impact from coal-generated carbon dioxide could be enormous if the world's still-vast reserves are heavily exploited. We've been stuck on the coal rung of what Loren Eiseley called "the heat ladder" of energy history for too long.
I sent a site link and the video clip above to Nicholas Muller of Middlebury College and William D. Nordhaus and Robert O. Mendelsohn of Yale, authors of this influential 2011 paper in American Economics Review: "Environmental Accounting for Pollution in the United States Economy." One of its many conclusions was that "coal-fired power plants have air pollution damages larger than their value added."
As I put it in my note to them, "I find it hard to reconcile your calculation of coal's big externalized costs with such a juxtaposition (coal sales and "clean energy" leadership):
You can read the reply from Mendelsohn below, followed by more from Bob Keefe of the Natural Resources Defense Council and Vic Svec, a spokesman for Peabody Energy:
Here's Mendelsohn:
We did not make any company specific estimates of damage. If Peabody is responsible for 23 percent of U.S. coal and if each ton of Peabody coal causes the average damage from coal in the U.S., the burning of Peabody coal is causing $12 billion of damage from traditional health related air pollutants and almost $16 billion of damage including greenhouse gases every year. Few companies can boast more.
I also asked him if they'd gotten any significant pushback on their findings so far. Here's his reply:
Academically, there has been nothing but positive feedback so far. Politically, so far, there is no push back. However, if there was ever a hint of legislation based on our work, I am sure that it would heat up considerably.
I sent the same query to Bob Keefe, a spokesman for the Natural Resources Defense Council. He put his reaction bluntly:
Juxtaposing its coal sales against its shamefully blatantly false claims of being "a global leader in clean energy solutions" is baffling -- but also indicative of Peabody Energy's inexplicable approach to the environment and the communities in which it operates.
The only way you could possibly believe Peabody's claim that it "advances environmental excellence" is if you believe breathing pollution and toxins is part of a good health routine.
Peabody consistently ranks as one of the worst polluters on the planet. If it put only a fraction of the time and money it spends on fighting environmental safeguards into actually pursing clean energy solutions, we'd all be better off.
See these links for more:
"The 15 Worst Companies For The Planet" (Business Insider Green Sheet)
Green Rankings, the 2009 List (Newsweek)
"Climate-denying Indiana Regulator helps ALEC Coal Companies Delay EPA Climate Rules" (Polluter Watch)
Finally, here's the response from Vic Svec from Peabody:
We note on the front page of our website that Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in sustainable mining and clean coal solutions. One of the great untold environmental stories is the enormous progress in clean energy that has occurred in recent decades.
We forget to celebrate the enormous progress that has been made in clean coal in recent decades. The core U.S. coal statistic is this: criteria emissions from coal use in the U.S. have declined a stunning 87% since 1970, during a time when coal use has nearly tripled. "Smokestacks" for coal plants have now become steam stacks, thanks to wet and dry ESPs, baghouses, low-NOx burners, SCRs, activated carbon injection and a host of other technologies.
In addition, using coal in large centralized plants dramatically reduces the burning of fuel wood and waste that causes enormous indoor air pollution in developing nations. And we know that low-cost coal-fueled electricity has helped to bring about an explosion of electrotechnologies: your coal-fueled mail delivery - e-mail - has dramatically lower emissions than traditional mail.
New supercritical coal plants represent another leap forward. Consider the Prairie State Energy Campus, with more than $1 billion in clean coal technologies and criteria emissions some 80% below the existing coal fleet along with a carbon dioxide emission rate some 40% below existing plants. Prairie State is also a great example of green jobs, with thousands of workers involved in construction of the large coal plant. And Prairie State has a cost of fuel that less than one-third that of even currently suppressed U.S. natural gas prices.
Ironically, U.S. environmentalists have been a major reason more supercritical coal plants haven't been used in the United States, even taking credit for killing state-of-the-art new coal construction in the past decade. China is building far more such plants because they recognize that coal is essential to power a healthy economy and the new generation of coal plants offer great environmental advantage. Also, Peabody is proud to be the only non-Chinese partner in GreenGen, which just started up in Tianjin, China, as a major coal gasification plant that will ultimately reuse carbon dioxide for enhanced oil recovery.
Coal has been the fastest growing fuel in the world for the past decade, and has been projected to pass oil as the world's largest energy source next year. Its abundance and low-cost profile make coal essential for powering the world's best economies and helping to move hundreds of millions of people to cities and to the middle class. Those are enormous societal benefits, and technology can ensure that his be done in an environmentally friendly way.
 Dec. 29, 12:09 a.m. | Updated | 
 * There've been several interesting developments related to the section marked with an asterisk:
1) In a comment, Peter Gleick noted that, while I wrote that the company said it is a global leader in clean energy solutions, it actually stated on its home page that it is "the global leader in clean energy solutions." I've changed the text from "a" to "the."
2) Another commenter, Bob Armstrong, protested, quoting from the Web site as follows:
No , it says: "Peabody Energy is the global leader in CLEAN COAL solutions and advances environmental excellence in coal mining and use."
It turns out they're both right, in that it said what Gleick asserted when I recorded my video loop of the page on Dec. 19 and now says what Armstrong quoted.
I'll ask Vic Svec why the wording changed. Perhaps the first version was not supported by the facts?

        
Exploring a Proposed Carbon Diet for American Power Plants
        
What's the Best Climate Question to Debate?
        
Can the U.S. and Australia Slake China's Coal Thirst and Still Claim CO2 Progress?
        
Coal Giant Drops Claim That it is 'the Global Leader in Clean Energy Solutions'
        
Energy Agency Sees Global Coal Boom Unabated, Europe's Binge Temporary

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COAL FIRED PLANTS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); COAL MINING (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COAL INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AIR POLLUTION (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); DEREGULATION (75%); POWER PLANTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); ACCOUNTING (72%); AIR POLLUTANTS (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (52%) Air Pollution; Alternative and Renewable Energy; Carbon Dioxide; Cato Institute; Coal; Electric Light and Power; Environment; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Mines and Mining; Peabody Energy Corporation; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; United States; Peabody Energy Corporation|BTU|NYSE; Climate Change; energy

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: CATO INSTITUTE (91%) Cato Institute; Coal; Peabody Energy Corporation

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (96%) Peabody Energy Corporation; BTU; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (96%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (96%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%) United States

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013



933 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(India Ink)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: WORLD; asia

LENGTH: 652 words

HEADLINE: Ratan Tata, the Man Who Brought Tata to the World

BYLINE: ANJANI TRIVEDI


HIGHLIGHT: Mr.Tata retired as chairman of the Tata Group on Friday. 

 BODY:
Ratan N. Tata, chairman of the Tata Group, retired Friday after over two decades at the helm of India's largest business conglomerate.
Cyrus P. Mistry, the deputy chairman, was chosen last year to succeed Mr. Tata. Mr. Mistry will be the first chairman who is not a Tata family member.
The New York Times has chronicled Mr. Tata's business endeavors from the beginning of his career and the Tata Group's ventures over the years. 
In 1991, when Ratan Tata was handed the chairmanship by his uncle amid "opposition from senior executives over a plan to restructure the group," Sanjoy Hazarika wrote:
"His successor began his career in the group's textile division in the 1960's and over the years was given more responsibility by the elder Mr. Tata to conduct the overseas operations of the group, which has significant investments in hotels and computer companies in Southeast Asia, Europe and the United States. He is the deputy chairman of some of the group's flagship companies, like the iron and steelmaking venture, the power sector and Tata Chemicals. He studied at Cornell and Harvard universities."
The chairman was key to transforming the conglomerate, Heather Timmons wrote:
"As company chairman, Mr. Tata has been instrumental in carrying on the family legacy, and turning what was a loosely aligned group of companies that shared one name into a group with seven business lines and centralized management."
Today, the Tata Group generates $100 billion in annual revenue, and unlike most businesses, two-thirds of the group is owned by philanthropic trusts.
Mr. Tata was described in another New York Times story as "the most unlikely of corporate titans - almost preternaturally humble, unabashedly open about the company's mistakes and about the fact that he never really wanted to be an industrialist." However, over the years, Mr. Tata has been credited for takeovers of foreign companies across industries and reviving various businesses under the Tata umbrella.
In 2007, when the Tata Group took over a European steel company, spearheaded by the "lionized" Mr. Tata, Anand Giridharadas wrote:
"India erupted with serves-them-right jubilation this week when Tata Group, an Indian conglomerate, won a bid for the Corus Group - the Anglo-Dutch descendant of British Steel - for more than $12 billion, the largest acquisition ever by an Indian firm. Headlines spoke of empires striking back, while pundits and industrialists said India had at last arrived as a world power."
The following year, the Tata Group acquired the luxury car brands Jaguar and Land Rover from the Ford Motor Company for $1.7 billion. In 2008, Ms. Timmons wrote:
"A string of international deals has diversified Tata to the point where more than half its revenue this year will come from outside India. Tata's increasingly global outlook is also bolstering the overseas ambitions of other Indian companies."
And then came Mr. Tata's pet project, an affordable car for the people of India, which produced the Nano, priced at $2,500. However, the car, which drew more than 200,000 advance orders, didn't live up to the hype.
On Friday, in a parting letter to Tata employees, Mr. Tata wrote:
"I feel confident that the robust growth that India has shown over the past several years will be re-established and the strong fundamentals in the country will result in India once again taking its place as one of the economic success stories of the region. The Tata Group will undoubtedly play an important role in the continued development of our country, providing leadership in various industrial segments in which they operate and living by the value systems and ethical standards on which our Group was founded."

        
Indians Outraged Over Rape on Moving Bus in New Delhi
        
Are Delhi's Buses Safe For Women?
        
Indian Firms No Strangers to Lobbying in the United States
        
India's Real Estate Developers Predict New Construction Boom
        
Newswallah: Long Reads Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IRON & STEEL MILLS (87%); TAKEOVERS (73%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); GLOBALIZATION (66%); FOUNDATIONS (64%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); PHILANTHROPY (50%) India; Mumbai (India); Tata Group; Tata, Ratan

COMPANY: TATA GROUP (92%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); TATA STEEL EUROPE (69%)

ORGANIZATION: Tata Group

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (92%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (92%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (69%)

PERSON: RATAN TATA (96%) Tata, Ratan

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) INDIA (94%); ASIA (88%); EUROPE (70%); NETHERLANDS (56%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (56%); UNITED STATES (56%) India; Mumbai (India)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



934 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Arguing About the Meaning of Work

BYLINE: ANAND GIRIDHARADAS


HIGHLIGHT: America's political conversation today could be seen as a big argument about the nature, meaning and value of work. Do Americans, in this period of economic hardship, need to strengthen their love of work or dial it back? 

 BODY:
NEW YORK - It is possible to think of the American political conversation today as a big argument about the nature, meaning and value of work.
Few things so divide Americans as questions about work: Does unemployment cause family breakdown, or the other way around? How much of a year's wages should be paid in taxes? How much of life's risks should a worker bear on her own, and how much should the state take on? Do people work harder when they keep more of their money, or when they feel nurtured by a system maximally open to all shades of talent? 
Into this fraught debate steps Rev. Timothy Keller, a Christian theologian and the author of a new book exploring, and critiquing, the American relationship with work.
As I write in this week's Currents column, Dr. Keller suggests that Americans tend to misunderstand the proper purpose and role of work in a well-lived life - regarding it either as hopeless drudgery or, conversely, as the sole pathway to fulfillment and joy.
He also suggests that liberals and conservatives each wear blinders when it comes to work, and that these blinders prevent them from seeing - and thus encouraging and regulating - work in its fullness and complexity.
 What do you think? Tell us if you agree with Dr. Keller's argument that, in general, America's white-collar class seeks too much meaning from work, while its blue-collar class harbors too dismal a view of labor? Do Americans, in this period of economic hardship, need to strengthen their love of work or dial it back? Do you agree with the pastor's argument that conservatives overlook the power of social context in shaping fortunes, and that liberals too often look askance at the creation of wealth? 

        
Asia Bad. Take Many Jobs. Not Fair.
        
China Slams 'Cold War Mentality' in U.S. Report
        
Morocco Emerges as Key U.S. Ally in Troubled Region
        
Beijing's Censors Could Test the Mettle of Iron Man
        
New Survey Finds U.S. Concerns Over a Rising China

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); COLD WAR (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); WRITERS (69%); RELIGION (69%) Labor and Jobs; United States Economy; United States; Featured; Page Two

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (51%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (76%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (92%); MOROCCO (79%); ASIA (79%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



935 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: December 28, 2012

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 519 words

HEADLINE: Democratic Establishment Voices Support for Markey's Bid to Succeed Kerry

BYLINE: KATHARINE Q. SEELYE


HIGHLIGHT: Several big guns in the Democratic Party began on Friday to line up behind Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts in the race to succeed Senator John Kerry. 

 BODY:
The Democratic ranks are closing behind Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts in the race to succeed Senator John Kerry, who hopes to become secretary of state.
The race is shaping up with unusual speed, considering that Mr. Kerry has not yet vacated the seat, and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts has yet to set a date for a special election. 
But several big guns in the Democratic Party began on Friday to line up behind Mr. Markey, who declared his candidacy on Thursday in a race that was expected to be crowded with high-profile possibilities.
The first to issue a statement was Mr. Kerry.
"While I began last week to formally step out of politics and it's very important that I respect the apolitical nature of the post I hope to soon occupy, as Massachusetts' senior senator today and as a colleague of Ed Markey's for 28 years, I'm excited to learn of and support his decision to run for the United States Senate,'' the statement said.
It avoided the word "endorse" but was clearly intended to send a signal that Mr. Kerry was supporting Mr. Markey.
Victoria Reggie Kennedy, the widow of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, then endorsed Mr. Markey, saying in a statement, "He knows how to get things done."
Mrs. Kennedy is said to be interested in being appointed interim senator until the winner of the special election is declared, but she did not mention it in her statement.
A statement from Senator Michael Bennet, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, also favored Mr. Markey.
"At a time when the country needs real leadership that looks out for the middle class, Ed Markey always remembers where he came from and will continue the hard work needed to turn our economy around," Mr. Bennet wrote.
Mr. Markey, 66, is the dean of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation and was first elected to the House in 1976. The other most likely candidates are also members of Congress: Stephen Lynch and Michael Capuano.
The Democrats appear to be trying to head off a potentially bruising primary to save their money for the special election. Their most likely Republican opponent is Massachusetts's other outgoing senator, Scott Brown.
Mr. Brown, who lost his seat last month to Elizabeth Warren, has not said yet whether he intends to run again this time. But he is presumed to be a formidable candidate; he is certainly the best known in the field, now that several high-profile Democrats have said they are not interested. They include Edward M. Kennedy Jr., the son of the senator, and Ben Affleck, the actor.
Representative Niki Tsongas, the widow of another senator, has also said that she will not run. So has Martha Coakley, the state attorney general, who lost a special election to Mr. Brown in 2010.
Mr. Markey, the son of a milkman, has $3 million in his campaign account. He ranks ninth in seniority in the House.

        
In the Final Days of the Campaign, Dukakis, 79, Knocks on Doors for Democrats
        
Elizabeth Warren Still Carrying Campaign Debt
        
New Poll Gives Warren the Edge in Massachusetts Senate Race
        
Foreign Policy Debate Puts Focus on Leadership
        
An Unusual Fund-Raising Pitch in Massachusetts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%) Kennedy, Victoria Reggie; Kerry, John; Markey, Edward J; Elections, Senate; Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee; Massachusetts; Elections

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (84%) Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee

PERSON: EDWARD J MARKEY (95%); JOHN KERRY (94%); TED KENNEDY (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); SCOTT BROWN (78%); MICHAEL BENNET (78%); NIKI TSONGAS (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%); MICHAEL E CAPUANO (58%); STEPHEN F LYNCH (58%); MARTHA COAKLEY (58%) Kennedy, Victoria Reggie; Kerry, John; Markey, Edward J

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) Massachusetts

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



936 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 10049 words

HEADLINE: 2012: A Look Back, and Beyond

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Every day until Dec. 31, reporters and editors from The New York Times will recall the people, teams and moments that made the last year memorable, and in some cases look ahead to 2013.
* * *
The Greatest Fight That Never Was
By Greg Bishop
The fight that mattered most, the one certain to shatter pay-per-view records and make boxing relevant to the mainstream sports fan again, if only temporarily, became less likely in 2012. To say the chances of its taking place in 2013 are improbable would be to acknowledge a sliver of a chance, like that line from ''Dumb and Dumber'':
So you're telling me there's a chance?
No, there is none. 
Back in January, the superfight between Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Manny Pacquiao was already unlikely, already a pipe dream, which befuddled fans of sports, where the best teams and best players actually face off. But this is boxing, and those three words manage to explain everything, to summarize all the chaos and confusion that have come to define a classic sport.
All anyone who ever watched a boxing match wanted was for Mayweather to step inside the ring with Pacquiao. Here were the two very best boxers of their generation, in the same weight class, on paths that seemed destined to collide. For that fight, three million P.P.V. buys seemed possible. So did total revenue of more than $200 million.
Yet these fighters, again, in the same weight class, continued to fight the same opponents, on parallel paths that remained just that. If this strategy doesn't make sense, it's not supposed to. This is boxing.
Then came 2012. Mayweather went to jail after he pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery domestic violence. The incident reportedly took place in front of his children. This is boxing, though, so Mayweather fought and beat Miguel Cotto in May. The same Cotto that Pacquiao demolished in 2009 on his rise to global icon.
Pacquiao lost twice in 2012. Timothy Bradley beat him first, in a fight that nobody, not even Bradley if he's being honest, felt he won. But where Bradley did not succeed -- in the court of public opinion -- Juan Manuel Márquez did. In their fourth fight, Márquez knocked Pacquiao out cold.
There lay the champion, the fighter of the decade, face down on the canvas, as Mitt Romney -- yes, that Mitt Romney -- sat only a few rows away, his face registering but one emotion: shock. For once after a Pacquiao fight, no one mentioned Mayweather, or the megafight that was said to have the potential to redefine their sport.
So here we are. The best boxer in recent memory, Mayweather, has fought five times since late 2007 and spent more time in 2012 behind bars than in the gym. His most anticipated challenger may retire, if not now, then soon.
For the past year or two, it always felt improbable, the possibility of Mayweather against Pacquiao. It seemed as if they would box when they were old, when one or the other needed money, when the fight that mattered most mattered far less. Now even that seems like a fantasy boxing matchup, one in which Mayweather clearly would be favored.
As 2012 turns to 2013, it seems safe to say that the fight that never was now will never be.
This is boxing.
* * *
A Fine Night to Appreciate a Mets First
By Andrew Keh
Two things they told me when I was beginning as the beat writer covering the Mets, just over a year ago:
1. No Mets pitcher had ever thrown a no-hitter, a fact that became more sad and significant and comical with each game, so be prepared to write about the first one.
2. Nights off at home, for a baseball writer, are rare. Enjoy them, if you can.
These thoughts collided on June 1. That night, the Mets were playing the St. Louis Cardinals in Queens, and I was ducking into a subterranean izakaya in Manhattan. There was no cellphone reception. Baseball seemed distant.
But after a few bites and a couple of beers, there appeared Johan Santana, the veteran Mets lefty, on a soundless television screen mounted against a distant wall. It showed him inducing three routine outs before the station cut back to the original program.
''Strange highlight'' was my first thought. My second came quickly, frantically: ''No-hitter!''
Alarm bells went off. Here was a major event developing on my beat. But what could I do? I assumed -- correctly, it turned out -- that the reporting duties were in capable hands. Tim Rohan, an intern on one of his first assignments, went on to write an elegant game story. So I took the rare opportunity to watch from afar, as a casual observer.
The check was settled, and my friends and I surfaced back to street level and hustled to a nearby sports bar, getting there during the top of the eighth inning, stepping into a room abuzz. Each out recorded raised the volume of the place.
With his 134th pitch, Santana, with his surgically repaired shoulder, recorded the final out, and after 8,020 games, the Mets had their first no-hitter.
On-screen, Santana screamed and was mobbed by teammates. In our bar, patrons whooped and smiled.
There was something strange about seeing this, a postgame celebration involving the Mets. It was charming, of course. But it also brought to mind how scarce such celebrations have been for the team in recent years.
And there was something strange about the scene inside the bar. We were away from the rumble of Citi Field and its die-hards, but people applauded and raised their beer glasses. Some were Mets fans, others casual sports fans. All seemed surprised and happy to have a tangible reason to salute the team.
Over several weeks, the afterglow of the night would fade, giving way to another dreary season for the Mets, another fourth-place finish. R. A. Dickey, a charismatic knuckleballer, enlivened things at the end, winning 20 games and a Cy Young Award. But his glow was extinguished, too, when he was traded this month to the Toronto Blue Jays, a move to benefit the future.
So who can say now when the Mets will play another meaningful game? Who knows when the next on-field celebration for the Mets might occur?
Until then, June 1, 2012, will be fondly remembered. It was a fine night to be off the baseball beat.
* * *
Quiet World Cup Groundwork for the U.S.
By Andrew Das
What if the easy part was the hard part?
Two years out from the World Cup in Brazil should be quiet time for the United States national team and Coach Jurgen Klinsmann, who coasted through 2012, losing only twice in 14 games. Sure, the early-round World Cup qualifiers on the schedule were important, and there was a hairy moment or two. But the Americans' finishing in the top half of a group with Jamaica, Guatemala, and Antigua and Barbuda wasn't really heavy lifting, and many fans weren't always paying close attention anyway. The friendlies were generally low-risk (Venezuela, Scotland, Canada) or high-reward (Brazil's Olympic team). A first-ever win in Italy was a bonus, and a similar feat in Mexico was an even nicer surprise. Even the goals started to come: five one night in Jacksonville, three in Tampa and Jamaica, two more on a frozen field in Russia.
But Klinsmann was doing his heavy lifting behind the scenes. He tinkered with positions and personalities and, at times, nationalities. He leaned on goalkeeper Tim Howard while trying out defenders who didn't always protect him. He integrated midfielder Michael Bradley, the frequently scowling son of the coach he replaced, into the heart and soul of his team, and then surrounded him with a mixture of German muscle and homegrown hopefuls. He pushed striker Jozy Altidore to take his game more seriously and nudged Clint Dempsey to find a bigger club. All the while, he taught those he sent to the field -- 49 players over the course of the year -- how to stop falling behind, and how to fight their way out when they did.
According to the script, the next stage -- the bulk of the Americans' 2013 schedule -- should be the hardest: five regional rivals, home and away. Honduras. Costa Rica. Mexico. Jamaica. Panama. Places where it's just as well that you don't speak the local language, especially the words for ''mother'' and ''sister.'' Places where they hurl not only insults -- though there are plenty of those -- but also coins and batteries and bags filled with urine.
The Americans must survive that gantlet to claim one of the region's three guaranteed places in the 2014 World Cup. The core of the team has done this before, the most recent part of a run of six straight World Cup trips, an active streak longer than even Mexico's. The question of 2013 will be whether that experience will make it easier this time.
Klinsmann will start the journey with a spine of World Cup veterans like Howard and Carlos Bocanegra and Bradley and Dempsey running through his team. He'll enter it with other players toughened by games in the Champions League, even if that experience came with Anderlecht and Nordsjaelland, not Arsenal and Milan. He will enter it, as the American coach often does, with the burden of leading one of the favorites. What may be missing for the first time in years is Landon Donovan, who is seriously considering a break from the game, perhaps permanent.
The discussion they will have will be difficult for Klinsmann, to be sure. But some of his toughest work is already behind him.
* * *
Redemption in Left Field: A 9-Act Play
By Peter Lattman
On a Sunday afternoon in late August, I found myself home alone in the sweltering city, my family away at the beach.
Since misery loves company, I turned on the Mets.
After a solid first half, the Mets were in the throes of an epic late-season collapse. But they were better off than their opponent, the visiting Astros, owners of the worst record in baseball. It was a train wreck of a matchup.
Yet for the Flushing faithful, the game had compelling subplots. There was the return to the lineup of Lucas Duda, a powerful young slugger whose personal struggles embodied the Mets' woes. Duda had held such promise early in the year, but after an abysmal hitting slump and defensive miscues in right field, the Mets demoted him to the minors. He had spent the past month playing for the Class AAA Buffalo Bisons, trying to resuscitate his swing and learn a new position, left field.
Another young Met, the rookie right-hander Jeremy Hefner, took the mound that day in what would be his best outing of the season. In a taut pitching duel with Lucas Harrell, the Astros' rookie standout, Hefner took a 1-0 lead into the ninth inning. After he gave up a leadoff single, the next batter, Marwin Gonzalez, hit a low liner into left field.
Duda chugged toward the foul line and slid but couldn't make the catch. The base runner scored. Hefner's shutout slipped through his glove. Though a tough play, it was a makable one. The broadcasters knocked Duda's fielding. The television camera fixed on him, alone in left field, a pained expression on his face.
But two batters later, he got another chance. The Astros' Ben Francisco hit a grounder past the shortstop for a base hit. A determined Duda charged the ball with abandon, scooped it up on the run and threw a bull's-eye to the Mets' catcher, who tagged Gonzalez as he tried to score from second.
The tie was preserved. Sweet redemption for Duda!
With one out in the bottom of the ninth, Ike Davis hit his second home run of the game. Mets 2, Astros 1.
This is a franchise that has caused its fans serious heartache, with the past season especially distressing (and the next one loaded with uncertainty). But on a Sunday afternoon in late August, the Mets were a blissful 2-hour-19-minute distraction. The stakes could not have been lower, but the game could not have been better.
* * *
After Flash of Failure, Phelps Secures His Place in History
By Lynn Zinser
For a night or two at the London Olympics, it looked as if Michael Phelps's storied career would end in a fizzle. He had been routed in a race he had once dominated, the 400-meter individual medley, and the look on his face betrayed bewilderment. Losing was not something Phelps had ever had to learn how to do.
As everyone granted him second-class status behind the new hero Ryan Lochte, the instant caterwauling about Phelps's disappointing demise ignored one thing: whether or not Phelps is the best Olympian ever, he may be one of the best competitors. Four gold and two silver medals later, Phelps's familiar crooked grin was back, and Lochte was reduced to background noise. In what he says was his final Games, Phelps became the most decorated Olympian, finishing with 22 career medals, 18 of them gold.
Live-blogging the events for The New York Times, I was watching every last stroke from afar, laughing while writing the latest feats of the Phelps epic. I had been in Sydney in 2000 when Phelps swam in his first Olympics as a 15-year-old, a shy, gangly kid who was welcomed to the world of big news conferences with a question about whether he had ever kissed a girl. (The non-offending reporters cringed at that one.)
That first Olympics was rather forgettable -- Phelps finished fifth in his only event, the 200-meter butterfly -- but by 2004, Phelps was the star his sport would begin to orbit around. I sat in the stands in Athens next to Phelps's mother, Debbie, as he won his first gold medal, in world-record time in the 400 I.M. She was bubbling over with emotion, and even the relentlessly even-keeled Phelps let a few of his dream-come-true thoughts play out on his face. His era had begun.
For his heroics in Beijing, I was a mere spectator, off covering other Olympic events, which was a good thing because I had probably run out of words to describe him after 2004. Nothing he did surprised me because, watching Phelps swim, it's possible to believe he can do anything. Unlike in other sports, the truly magical competitors in swimming appear to be expending so much less energy than anyone else. Phelps glides through the water as if propelled by some supernatural force.
The magic of 2012 was that he had to work for it, really work for it, and the effort was visible this time. No longer was winning those races a given, and as he pulled himself out of the pool each time, every ache showed. The superhero was indeed human, but underestimating him was never wise.
* * *
A Superstar Goes Down, but the Yanks Fight On
By Patty LaDuca
On the afternoon of May 3, my Times colleague David Waldstein delivered the news on Twitter: ''Mariano Rivera appears to have been injured in outfield during BP. He is being taken off the field on a cart. Looks bad.''
My heart sank.
The Yankees, about to start a four-game series against the Royals in Kansas City, were 13-11 and in fourth place in the American League East. This news seemed like the end of hope for the season and perhaps the end of Rivera's illustrious career.
We soon learned that he had torn the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while chasing a fly ball, an activity he had always enjoyed but now seemed foolish. Before he could have surgery to repair it, a blood clot developed in his calf, a common complication in older patients like Rivera, then 42.
The most dominant and durable closer in baseball history, he was the glue that held the Yankees together for 15 years. How could they make up any ground after losing him for the rest of the season, let alone make the playoffs?
Turns out that they could. Rafael Soriano filled in ably in the bullpen, posting 42 saves and taking his place in my book among the pantheon of Yankees closers like Dave Righetti, Sparky Lyle, Goose Gossage and John (Walk the Bases Loaded, Then Strike Out the Side) Wetteland. The Yankees won 95 games and the American League East title.
In the playoffs, relief pitching was the least of the Yankees' problems. Their bats were feeble (.211 average) as they squeaked past Baltimore in a five-game division series and went silent (.157) as Detroitswept them in the A.L. Championship Series.
It turned out the injury would not mean the end of Rivera's career either. He announced in no uncertain terms that he would return in 2013, rested and ready at 43.
''I'm coming back,'' he said the day after his injury. ''Write it down in big letters.''
My heart sang.
* * *
Giants, Again Needing Hero, Find One Along the Sideline
By Ben Shpigel
The Giants have this thing about artistic, brilliant, darn-near-impossible fourth-quarter catches in Super Bowl victories against New England. Mainly, they make them. And mainly, the catches are made by receivers who in the moment demand a formal introduction to the public at large -- but only then, never again.
Say the name Mario Manningham to most any football fan, and there is instant recognition, followed perhaps by wonderment: how did he haul in that pass while keeping both feet inbounds?
Like David Tyree before him, Manningham had a sense of occasion that February night, at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, where the Giants toasted another improbable championship, their second in five seasons. They defeated New England, 21-17, because of Eli Manning's arm and a stingy defense and a reluctant touchdown by Ahmad Bradshaw, but mostly because Manningham's feet stopped growing when they did.
They are size 11. Anything bigger and, he said afterward, ''I would have been out.'' He was not exaggerating, either.
The Giants trailed, 17-15, with 3 minutes 46 seconds remaining. The ball was at their 12 when Manning, with Vince Wilfork's hand in his face, heaved an arcing, perfect pass down the near sideline, the Patriots' sideline, where Manningham was running, having beaten safety Sterling Moore at the line of scrimmage.
''Step up,'' Manningham said he told himself. ''Dig deep.''
Across the field stood Tyree, the Giants' talisman. He entered franchise lore by pinning the football against his helmet in the Super Bowl four years before, extending the winning drive. On this night, Manningham needed only his fingertips and toes, no helmet. As another safety, Patrick Chung, closed in, Manningham reached out his hands. The ball, lofted over his shoulder, fell in. His right foot touched the ground first, and then his left, his size 11s both inbounds but barely.
Eight plays later, the Giants scored what proved to be the winning touchdown. A raucous celebration soon followed, and the afterglow lasted for weeks. By mid-March, though, Manningham was no longer a Giant, off to San Francisco, to play for the 49ers. He was gone, yes. But forgotten? Never.
* * *
A Triumph for Zambia Near the Site of a Tragedy
By David Waldstein
Perhaps it was destiny's hand that guided Zambia to one of the most remarkable victories in the history of the African Cup of Nations last February, or maybe it was just poetic coincidence.
The emotional championship was secured just a few hundred yards from the site of the plane crash off the coast of Libreville, Gabon, that killed a previous Zambian team 19 years earlier, and it produced a moment of long-awaited joy for the impoverished southern African nation.
It was the first time the under-regarded Zambians, known as the Chipolopolo (copper bullets), won the title in the 55-year history of the tournament, and it was also the first time the tournament was held in Gabon. It took 15 penalty kicks to ultimately vanquish a powerful Ivory Coast team, which boasted stars like Didier Drogba, Yaya Touré and Salomon Kalou.
On April 27, 1993, the Zambian national soccer team was on a flight from Lusaka, Zambia, to Senegal for a World Cup qualifying match when its plane plunged into the ocean off the coast of Libreville. All 30 people on board, including 18 members of a strong team, died.
That team held great promise for Zambia, with legitimate hopes of winning that year's African Cup and qualifying for the 1994 World Cup. Some of the players were on the team that stunned Italy, 4-0, in the 1988 Olympics, the first thrashing of a European power by an African team in any major competition. The electrifying Kalusha Bwalya, who scored a hat trick in that game, went on to be called the best player in Zambian soccer history. At the time of the crash he was traveling to Gabon from the Netherlands, where he played for the Dutch powerhouse PSV Eindhoven, so he was not on the plane.
A year later, almost single-handedly, Bwalya led the decimated Chipolopolo to a second-place finish at the 1994 African Cup in Tunisia, and later coached the national team. He later became the president of the Football Association of Zambia and was on hand in Libreville when his team finally won the cup.
Two days before the Feb. 12 final, the team visited the beach near where the plane crashed offshore, an emotional moment for everyone, but particularly for Bwalya, who lost so many teammates that night.
''I say here that their dreams are our dreams,'' Bwalya said. ''They are smiling down on heaven as we take part in this tournament in Gabon.''
In the tense, hard-fought game, all seemed lost for Zambia when the Ivoirians were awarded a penalty in the 70th minute. But Drogba shot high, and the game eventually went to penalty kicks. After 14 kicks, the sides were even, but on the 15th, Stoppila Sunzu sizzled one into the top corner. Zambia had an incomparable 8-7 victory.
For some back in Zambia, the spirit of the 18 lost players clearly had a hand in the outcome.
''We know what we wanted to honor this evening,'' Zambia's coach, Herve Renard, said afterward. ''It was a sign of destiny, written in the sky; there was a force with us.''
* * *
Finding Hope in Football, and Providing It
By Jeré Longman
Kickoff for the Pennsylvania state championship game was minutes away. Music and a taped inspirational speech filled the Clairton High School locker room. But Terrish Webb sat outside on a set of concrete steps. He wiped tears from his eyes.
''I miss my dad,'' Webb, 17, told his close friend and teammate Robby Boatwright, who gave him a hug.
''I got your back,'' Boatwright said. ''I love you.''
Six years earlier, almost to the day, Webb's father had been shot to death as he drove his car in the late afternoon near the football field in Clairton, a frayed steel mill town south of Pittsburgh. Webb was 11 at the time. The case has never been solved.
''When you have tragedy like that in your immediate family, some kids tend to go the wrong way,'' said Wayne Wade, a former star quarterback at Clairton who is now the team's defensive coordinator. ''They can't handle it. They start to question themselves. Why me? They look into different avenues to go, which are negative. Terrish found a positive one in football with a lot of his friends. They vowed a long time ago that they wanted to win state championships and they did all the right things to do it.''
Clairton fell on hard times when the steel industry collapsed in the 1980s. Much of its downtown is abandoned, boarded up. But football has provided a glimmer of hope amid the civic gloominess. Webb caught a 21-yard touchdown pass in a 20-0 victory in the Class A title game on Dec. 14 at Hersheypark Stadium, helping Clairton to a fourth consecutive state championship and its 63rd consecutive win, the nation's longest current winning streak.
A 6-foot-1 receiver and cornerback, Webb caught 16 touchdown passes, rushed for 4 touchdowns and intercepted 8 passes this season. He is also the senior class president and ranks second in his class with a 3.8 grade-point average. He is considering playing college football at Kent State, Pittsburgh or Toledo.
''That's a special person who can come back from such adversity,'' Tom Nola, Clairton's coach, said of Webb. ''He's the best student on the team. He's going to college. He's going to make something of his life. My hat's off to him.''
Nola credited Webb's mother, Tinisha Webb, who works as an administrative assistant at a hospital in suburban Pittsburgh, with keeping Terrish from despair and stressing the importance of education. His friends, too, vowed that they would not succumb to the temptations and violence of a city where nearly a quarter of the 6,796 residents live below the poverty level.
''People think this is just football,'' Webb said. ''This is more than football to us. This is the way out from where we come from.''
* * *
In Pictures | Football
* * *
Bid to Win Triple Crown Ends in Barn at Belmont
By Melissa Hoppert
It was a sun-drenched Friday morning at Belmont Park, and with an elusive Triple Crown on the line, the employees and even the horses seemed to have an extra bounce in their step.
One day stood between I'll Have Another and the history books: he had a chance to be the 12th Triple Crown winner and the first since Affirmed in 1978.
It had already been a magical run for the underdog colt and jockey Mario Gutierrez, who had won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes in thrilling fashion.
Not many people were at the trainer Doug O'Neill's barn at 9:30 a.m. that day, but those who were appeared in good spirits, hardly letting on that something was amiss with the champion colt.
O'Neill was said to be dealing with the arrival of his family, but in hindsight, he had bigger worries than travel arrangements.
By 11:30, O'Neill had confirmed on the Dan Patrick radio show that I'll Have Another was out of the Belmont Stakes with a tendon injury.
As word began to travel around Belmont Park, and the news media swarmed the detention barn, people were in a state of disbelief. One track worker called home: ''Did you hear that? They scratched the horse!'' Another said, ''I hear that he's never going to race again.'' A horseplayer threw his program and shouted, ''Unbelievable.''
Jimmy Crennan of nearby Williston Park, Long Island, who had been to every Belmont since 1980, was sitting in the backyard area. His thoughts? ''Shock and disappointment.''
''It's like the air comes out of the balloon,'' he said. ''I got here today, and I was in such good spirits.
''I'm sure there will be 30,000 less people here tomorrow now.''
Steve Wolfson, the son of Louis Wolfson, the owner of Affirmed, said: ''What a disappointment. It's just such a daunting task, and then for this to happen. I really feel bad about it, for the horse, for Doug O'Neill and Mario Gutierrez and for the public. It's really sad.''
The race went on, however, and a crowd of 85,811, the largest on a non-Triple Crown day, watched as Union Rags charged past Paynter to capture the Belmont Stakes.
I'll Have Another is now standing stud in Japan. But perhaps the story is not finished. His former owner, Paul Reddam, and O'Neill have another Derby contender for 2013: He's Had Enough.
* * *
A League's Ruinous Battle Against Itself
By Jeff Z. Klein
Bill Daly, the N.H.L.'s deputy commissioner, is a man not normally given to purple public statements. But when he said ''the hill we will die on'' during a news conference Dec. 6, he angrily summed up where the N.H.L. went in a ruinous 2012.
Daly used that phrase while standing next to Commissioner Gary Bettman, who was visibly shaking with rage, as they explained why they had just rejected the players' latest proposal and extended the N.H.L.'s lockout.
''Term limits on player contracts, which is the hill we will die on,'' Daly said.
It was a telling choice of words -- an utterance so evocative of gallant sacrifice and heroic last stands, yet made in connection with a mere business issue.
But that is how Bettman, Daly and the N.H.L. owners seem to view this lockout: as a kind of apocalyptic battle in which the players union must be defeated, even if the world must be brought down to do so.
Some blame Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, for the impasse. But Fehr was not around for the N.H.L. lockout in 1994-95, or the one that wiped out the 2004-5 season -- nobody in the union leadership was.
The only people in leadership positions during all three lockouts are on the league side: Bettman; Jeremy Jacobs, the Boston Bruins' owner; and Bob Batterman, the Proskauer Rose lawyer known for directing sports lockouts. (Daly was a key player in the last two lockouts.)
Lockouts are now a habit with the N.H.L., and this one will continue into 2013, even though the players have made most of the concessions and Bettman is excoriated by figures as diverse as Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey (''This is the third time this has happened in recent memory -- you know, that's bad management'') and the president of the Kontinental Hockey League, Alexander Medvedev (''How egotistical the N.H.L. is -- financial issues trump the development of the game for them'').
Even if a settlement is reached in the weeks to come, the damage has been done: many avid fans have lost interest, and the N.H.L. has slid back into the near irrelevance in the American sports landscape that it only recently escaped after so many years of struggle.
Daly was talking about contract lengths when he used the ominous phrase, but in the larger sense, he was right. This lockout may indeed be the hill the N.H.L. will die on.
* * *
Losing Marathon, and Heart
By Ken Belson
A wise editor once said, It takes years to build trust and a minute to erase it. He was talking about the news business, but he could also have been talking about New York Road Runners.
The group has spent decades turning its five-borough race, the New York City Marathon, into a 26.2-mile international celebration that unites millions of New Yorkers in the streets every November. It has become one of the city's most heartwarming events.
But much of that good will was swept away after Hurricane Sandy pummeled the city. Rather than cancel the race, which was scheduled for less than a week after the storm, and give its food, water and supplies to the newly homeless or ask runners to donate their entry fees to relief efforts, the running group, egged on by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, forged ahead.
''It's a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you know, you've got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind,'' Bloomberg said that week.
The decision backfired. Instead of bucking up the city's spirits, the race became a lightning rod for critics -- including many runners -- who saw Bloomberg and Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, as callous elitists more willing to host out-of-town athletes than to help shivering residents on Staten Island.
When political rivals took aim at him and protesters threatened to disrupt the race, Bloomberg was finally persuaded to call off the race, leaving Wittenberg to repair the event's tattered image. In waiting until the city reached full boil, the mayor and Wittenberg had many asking, What were they thinking?
Institutional inertia was partly to blame. New York Road Runners spends a year preparing for the race; no doubt Wittenberg was reluctant to throw all that work away.
But hubris played a role, too. Did the mayor really believe it was a good idea for police officers, emergency medical technicians and other public workers to man a road race instead of caring for the city's neediest? Did Wittenberg really think the average Joe in Brooklyn was in the mood to cheer for runners who had plenty of food while others scrounged for a meal?
With Bloomberg leaving office in a year, it will be up to Wittenberg to do the tough work of rebuilding the Road Runners brand and winning back the city's heart. Perhaps the hard lessons learned after the storm will not be forgotten.
* * *
In Pictures | Soccer: Olympics, Euro 2012 and Beckham
* * *
Stretching the Invisible Borders of a Sport
By Juliet Macur
Gabby Douglas, the spunky, fresh-faced gymnast once held back by self-doubt, was not supposed to win the gold medal in the all-around at the 2012 London Olympics.
She was what the United States women's team coordinator Martha Karolyi had called ''an average national team gymnast'' who was not even expected to beat a teammate, Jordyn Wieber, the reigning world champion in the all-around. To Karolyi, Wieber was the second coming of Nadia Comaneci, and Douglas was just a sidekick, too inexperienced and unfocused to perform when it counted the most.
But the 16-year-old Douglas skyrocketed to the top of the sport in a matter of five months.
With uncanny steadiness and precision, she won the all-around title at the Olympics -- the first black gymnast to earn the top spot and only the fourth American woman to do so. Afterward, she let out her trademark giggle and said, ''Wow, I believed in myself!'' as if she even amazed herself that she had pulled off what was once unthinkable.
As she stood atop the Olympic podium, Douglas beamed at her family members in the arena as they wiped away tears. Her mother, Natalie Hawkins, a plucky single mother of four, and Douglas's three siblings hugged one another and said, again and again, that all their sacrifices were worth it.
The biggest sacrifice was losing Douglas for nearly two years. In 2010, at age 14, she left her family in Virginia Beach, Va., to train in Iowa with Liang Chow, the coach who had helped Shawn Johnson win an Olympic gold medal in 2008. Douglas lived with a host family because her own family could not afford to pay for her housing.
Though that family, the Partons, was kind and generous, with four young daughters who soon looked to Douglas as a big sister, Douglas felt awkward at first. She missed sleeping in her own bed. She missed her two dogs. And she missed the beach, where she loved to go boogie boarding. She nearly quit the sport because she was so homesick.
But her resolve to stick with it paid off. In March, Douglas recorded the highest score in the women's all-around event at the American Cup, beating Wieber, the favorite to win the Olympic gold. Douglas's score didn't count, though, because she had competed as an alternate. So she stood back to watch Wieber accept the prize.
By July, Douglas had won the Olympic trials, dealing Wieber only her second all-around loss in four years. The next step: the Olympic gold.
Now Douglas has gone big time. She was featured on Corn Flakes boxes and the cover of People magazine. She was named one of the women of the year by magazines like Essence and Glamour.
Douglas had a feeling that this would be her fate.
''I have an advantage because I'm the underdog and I'm black and no one thinks I'd ever win,'' she said two months before the Olympics. ''Well, I'm going to inspire so many people. Everybody will be talking about, 'How did she come up so fast?' But I'm ready to shine.''
* * *
Every Move and Throw Under Watch
By Judy Battista
In any other camp, with any other quarterback, it would have been a simple game of catch while the cool morning mist burned off. But it was Peyton Manning and it was Denver -- Denver, that was strange enough, and John Elway was milling somewhere around those practice fields. And so there were notes to take and charts to keep, a half dozen or so reporters looking on, trying to decide if the touch was still there on the short fade routes Manning tossed over and over to receivers he was just getting to know.
Manning's recovery from four neck operations took the N.F.L. wire to wire in 2012. There were the occasional jabs he threw at the Indianapolis Colts in January as they fired one after another of the people Manning had known for years -- he said then that he was walking on eggshells. Then came his tearful news conference at which his release became official, and a coast-to-coast free agent odyssey, with helicopters and blacked-out car windows, and finally his remarkable on-field resurrection.
Manning was the dominant player of the year, given the sort of scrutiny that usually attends the vicissitudes of royal romances. We saw the video as the Colts removed the building-high pictures of him from the side of their stadium. Then we saw the video as he met surreptitiously with teams -- did the orange sweater mean anything to Manning, a former Tennessee Volunteer, on his visit to the Tennessee Titans? And then we saw the video as Manning barked at his new teammates during a game. Same as it ever was.
From the start in Denver, Manning gamely tried to lower expectations for his play, to no avail. He is still, now, with his team on the cusp of securing a playoff bye, insisting that he has much work to do -- defensive coordinators are probably sick of hearing that -- and he bristled at the dissection of his passes that accompanied his return. But it was Eric Decker, one of the receivers with whom Manning was doing extra work on the side that day in August, who may have given the best indication of what was to come months later.
''I've never seen a guy demand so much out of himself or his teammates,'' he said. ''He throws a football better than I've ever seen a quarterback throw a football. He allows us so many greater opportunities.''
In 2013, Manning may have an opportunity that even he, when he tried to throw a pass to his friend Todd Helton last year that nose-dived into the ground, might never have imagined he'd have again. The Broncos will enter the N.F.L. playoffs as one of the highest seeds, with a top-five offense supported by a top-five defense. From the nadir of his career, Manning has worked himself all the way back -- to be on, maybe, the best team he's ever had.
* * *
States Feed the Spread of Sports Wagering
By Joe Drape
Huey Long, as Louisiana's governor, promised a chicken in every pot. New York's Andrew M. Cuomo wants table games in as many corners of the state as possible, and New Jersey's Chris Christie hopes to build brick-and-mortar sports books and to make the Garden State a hub for online gambling.
They are hardly alone. From Kansas to Massachusetts, there is a gold rush by some states to embrace all forms of wagering to shore up their shrinking budgets.
Think of 2013 as a roulette wheel and a host of states with marbles in the game. New York intends to lay the groundwork for seven casinos. Ground is also likely to be broken in Massachusetts for three, including one in the Boston area.
And with Nevada having already approved online poker and begun preparing sites to be operating in early 2013, Governor Christie is certain to have the fate of Atlantic City, as well as the state's horse racing industry, in his hands as two bills continue to gather momentum.
An online gambling bill has already passed the New Jersey Assembly and Senate, and one of Internet gambling's top sites, PokerStars, is negotiating to acquire the Atlantic Club casino on the Jersey Shore.
This would be no less than a portal to the 22nd century and perhaps a mother lode for new tax revenue.
Christie has also vowed to defy a federal ban on sports wagering, and New Jersey's Legislature enacted a sports betting law in January, paving the way for sports books in Atlantic City casinos and the state's horse racing tracks.
The N.C.A.A. and three professional leagues argue that gambling hurts the integrity and perception of their games. This is an especially rich argument coming from the National Football League since two of its earliest owners, Art Rooney and Tim Mara, were gamblers. In 1936, Rooney, whose family still owns the Pittsburgh Steelers, turned two prescient days at the racetrack into $300,000. In 1925, Mara, a bookmaker, paid $500 for the Giants.
The N.F.L. injury report and betting lines certainly exist for a reason, and it's no accident that the league accounts for nearly 55 percent of the more than $1.3 billion wagered on football in Nevada in 2011.
So the leagues have done pretty well for decades alongside legalized sports gambling in Nevada, with billions more of illegal betting in bar rooms, fantasy leagues and offshore Web sites.
Now, the question being asked in state and federal courthouses is: why not take the sports book national, or even global?
* * *
After the Storm, Brooklyn's Moment
By Benjamin Hoffman
Everything had gone right for the Nets. Their new home in Brooklyn was complete, their apparel had become a huge hit among fans, they unexpectedly retained their signature star, and they were going to be able to show all of that off in a season opener against the Knicks.
Then Hurricane Sandy hit.
With the city's tunnels flooded, gasoline becoming scarce and the subway system shut down, suddenly the opener, scheduled for Nov. 1, had to be postponed and all of the excitement seemed to wither away.
Two days later, with the transit system still a mess and the city in a fierce debate over the cancellation of the marathon, it was decided that the Nets would go ahead with their scheduled game against the Toronto Raptors, a far less exciting opponent than the Knicks, risking empty seats in what they had hoped would be their grand debut.
A message posted to Twitter by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo that morning got things going in the right direction as he announced that the 4 and 5 trains would resume service, meaning that the large number of people in Manhattan hoping to see the game (including this reporter, who lives in Brooklyn but found himself working in Times Square that morning) would not have to brave the long lines for slow shuttle buses or break out their swim trunks for a jaunt across the East River.
As people shuffled onto the train at Grand Central Terminal, more than a few Nets hats were visible as everyone seemed somewhat unsure that the subways could really be back. Just days before, people had been walking to work across the Brooklyn Bridge and through a mostly abandoned and powerless downtown, but now the city was starting to feel more like itself.
Come game time, the crowd had filled out nicely, helped by a last-minute surge in ticket sales through online marketplaces like StubHub, and the Nets took the floor with Jay-Z watching and BrooklyKnight rappelling from the ceiling.
It was not a pretty game, with the Nets falling behind early and then struggling to catch up, but a strong second quarter led to the first major Brooklyn sports team since 1957 winning, 107-100.
Considering everything that had gone into the move from New Jersey, and the conditions surrounding the season's start, the actual basketball was the easy part.
* * *
A Stoicism That Can't Be Cracked
By Naila-Jean Meyers
A single clap. Andy Murray had just broken Novak Djokovic for the second time in the fifth set of the United States Open final, and all he got from his coach, Ivan Lendl, was one measly clap. In the previous set, when Murray won an exhilarating 30-shot rally and the nearly 24,000 fans at Arthur Ashe Stadium erupted, Lendl did not see fit to join that ovation either.
It was hard to take my eyes off Lendl that Monday night as the captivated crowd surrounding him gasped and roared at every lunging forehand and ripped backhand -- even with the distraction of Sean Connery sitting nearby, wrapped in a blue blanket and pumping his fist for Murray, his fellow Scot.
As a summer's day became a blustery night, as Djokovic and Murray took turns muttering to themselves, Lendl was the model of stoic calm -- awkwardly dressed in a red sweater and white shorts, often hunched over, elbow on knee, chin in hand.
But that's why he was there. That's why the mercurial Murray chose Lendl to be his coach this year. Lendl knew what it was like to come so close and fall short over and over. He knew, as Murray knew, as Britain knew. There would be no cheering until it was over.
Murray took us along on his emotional roller coaster in 2012. The heartbreak of his loss in the Wimbledon final, when he had Roger Federer on his heels, then the rain came, the roof closed, and it ended with Murray tearfully saying, ''Getting closer.'' The leap for joy one month later when Murray dismantled Federer on the same court for the Olympic gold medal, part of the crescendo of British athletic greatness at the London Games. The relief -- the word Murray chose when asked to summarize his feelings -- when he outlasted Djokovic that September night for his coveted first Grand Slam title, becoming the first British man to capture a Grand Slam singles championship since Fred Perry in 1936.
When it was really, truly over, Murray was holding the trophy and thanking his coach in front of the crowd, saying, ''I think that was almost a smile.''
The match itself was a roller coaster. Murray won the first two sets, including a 12-10 first-set tiebreaker, then saw Djokovic fight back. They played for 4 hours 54 minutes, on the 15th day of another United States Open tormented by bad weather.
For the record, it wasn't even the longest Grand Slam final this year: that was Djokovic's 5-hour-53-minute victory over Rafael Nadal at the Australian Open. It was a can-you-top-this year for men's tennis. Djokovic, Nadal, Federer and Murray each won Grand Slam tournaments. Federer reclaimed the No. 1 ranking for four months and won his first major title in two and a half years. Djokovic won six titles, returned to No. 1 and was the player of the year. All that was missing was a full-strength Nadal, who succumbed to bad knees after winning the French Open.
A liberated Murray. A persistent Djokovic. A determined Federer. A (hopefully) healthy Nadal. It's shaping up to be a 2013 season that might make even Lendl stand up and cheer.
* * *
Finding Security In a Different SEC
By Brad Smith
When I first moved to New York in 1981, I was pleasantly surprised to learn how much New Yorkers loved college football. As I moved from the South, where Saturdays in the fall rival Sundays for the holiest of days, my belief that it was a regional sport was put aside.
Virtually every day in the paper and on the news, there was a mention of the SEC. Being loyal to my own Southeastern Conference team (Florida), I was happy to know that I was living in the Greatest City in the World, which in turn was equally infatuated with the Greatest Conference in the World. But because of the Ivan Boeskys of the world, I soon learned that the Securities and Exchange Commission was not the SEC I grew up rooting for. New York's S.E.C. was not my SEC.
When I hear SEC today, thankfully, Wall Street is not at the front of my thoughts. I'm thinking of Gainesville, Tuscaloosa and Athens. And while there are similarities between the two (much of the country loathes both, for example), I'm forever locked into the one that throws the pigskin for a long gain, not the one that looks for long-term gains on pork futures. Besides, to paraphrase Babe Ruth, my SEC had a better year than that S.E.C. As a matter of fact, six in a row.
Starting with the 2006 Bowl Championship Series title game between Florida and Ohio State, the SEC has won six consecutive national championships, with four teams. (Florida, Louisiana State, Alabama and Auburn). This past January, much to the disappointment of 99 percent of the country and a television network, two SEC teams played for the title (Alabama and L.S.U.). This year, Alabama is again carrying the torch for the conference of (my) choice, and Notre Dame carrying it for, well, the other 10 conferences and the other 109 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
Division I college football has been dominated by one conference, one I'm proud to be a die-hard fan of for four decades. As I look at my increasingly small savings account, it's quite obvious I've spent way too much time following Barrett Jones rather than Dow Jones. For me, it was money well spent.
* * *
Cricket Rivalry of Nations, All for a Six-Inch Trophy
By Victor Mather
For much of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, there were fewer sure things in sports than the result of the Ashes, the cricket series held every two years between Australia and England.
Regular as clockwork, the Australians drubbed their rivals, winning eight straight series from 1989 to 2003.
But that changed in 2005, when England pulled off an upset that pushed soccer off the London tabloids' back pages. After an Australian win in 2007, the English have seemed to take over dominance with wins in 2009 and 2011. The series resumes this summer, with anticipation high in both hemispheres.
Cricket has been booming in many parts of the world, thanks to a new fast format known as Twenty20, in which matches can be completed in less than the time of a baseball game.
But the Ashes is old school. The teams play a series of five matches, each lasting five days, with six hours of play or more each day. A single player may bat for hours or even all day, gamely hitting defensive shots (something like fouling off pitches in baseball) in hopes of securing a draw. It is not for the casual fan.
But for the aficionados, there is nothing like the Ashes, especially when played, as it will be this summer, at the hallowed English grounds like Lord's and the Oval.
Most English cricket fans can tell you every detail of the match in Leeds in 1981 when their team rallied from a hopeless position (they trailed by 227 runs after one innings and bowled Australia out for 111!). And Australians love to crow about their 5-0 series sweep of 2007, the first since 1921.
The Ashes dates to 1882, when after an Australian win a newspaper published a mock obituary proclaiming the death of English cricket and stating that ''the body will be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia.'' A few weeks later, an English team went off to Australia and its captain, Ivo Bligh, vowed to return with ''the ashes.'' An Australian team presented him with a tiny urn symbolic of the Ashes. At about six inches, it is surely the smallest major sports trophy in the world.
Under a new captain, Alastair Cook, and with the mercurial superstar Kevin Pietersen back in the fold after a text messaging controversy, England is the clear favorite.
In the storied history of the series, Australia leads by 31-30. Wouldn't the English love to even that up this summer?
* * *
Falling Apart After Getting It Half Right
By Bill Pennington
Tiger Woods came off the 18th green after his second round in the 2012 P.G.A. Championship at Kiawah Island tied for the lead. Again.
It was the third consecutive major championship that Woods was in or near the lead at the halfway point.
This had once been a familiar sight -- missing maybe for a couple of years, but for more than a decade before, the golf world knew exactly how Woods looked in command of a big tournament. And fans worldwide knew the frequent outcome: 14 major victories.
But in 2012, as good as Woods could sometimes be, there was one Woods on the weekdays of major tournaments and an altogether different Woods on the weekends, especially the last three.
His average score in the first two rounds of this year's majors was 70, while his average score in the final two rounds was 72.9. It was worse than the statistics indicated -- no weekend round under par and three rounds of 74 or higher. In the final three majors, Woods's average weekday round was even lower (68.8). His weekend average was 72.8.
This was Tiger Woods, golf's ultimate closer?
Not insignificant, it was notable who stole the show from Woods on the final days of the P.G.A. As the third round began at Kiawah Island in early August, Rory McIlroy birdied five of his first nine holes. Well aware of McIlroy's fast start, Woods answered by going three over par in his first seven holes -- holes he had played in three under during the first two rounds.
Woods was not just off his game, he was having trouble keeping the ball in play. With a 15th career major on the line, he yanked tee shots onto adjacent holes, hit one shot into the crowd, flew the green on a par 3 and, at one point, hit three consecutive, dreadfully wayward shots.
In the final round the next day, McIlroy shot a 66 to win by eight strokes. Woods shot a 72 and settled for 11th. Who would have ever thought Tiger Woods would settle for anything in a championship moment?
''I've got to just keep putting myself in a position to win, and if it happens often enough, then I will win,'' Woods said afterward, uttering a line that sounded as if it came from an up-and-coming rookie waiting to break through on the PGA Tour. Except Woods turns 37 on Dec. 30.
This is not to say that Woods will not win another major. He may win two in 2013 and two more the year after that. It is certainly more promising for him that he came close three times in 2012, which was a departure from his middling performances in 2010 and 2011. But the cracks in the armor are breaches apparent to all at this point. Even as he finished the second round at the P.G.A. Championship in August -- with a chance to take the outright lead -- what did Woods do?
He three-putted the 18th green.
It may all be a part of the process that Woods likes to talk about these days. Every revival has its incremental steps forward. And every retreat has its incremental steps backward.
In time, we will see which way Woods is marching. But throughout this year, it was odd to watch him fall apart so routinely because he was the one golfer you once could routinely count on to do the opposite.
* * *
Upon Further Review, the Truth Is Revealed
By John Branch
The following story is not true -- yet.
After years of experimenting and increasing the use of instant replay to weed out errors in officiating, several American sports will no longer be held live, but entirely on replay, to ensure that there were no mistakes.
In the N.F.L., for example, the hope is to eliminate delays caused by the persistent huddling of indecisive officials and the frequent departure of the referee to watch the replay in a private sideline viewing chamber.
Now, the game itself will be the replay.
''We have to work out some of the logistics,'' N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''For example, how do we have a replay before we have an actual game? But we're optimistic that we'll solve it. We're the N.F.L.''
Replay reviews, while appreciated by those who want near perfection in officiating, have been the source of much frustration for N.F.L. fans in particular. Many insist that they have better things to do than waste an extra two or three minutes of a Sunday after having already set aside their day in three-, six- or nine-hour increments.
The N.B.A. may create a model for others to follow. It will initially conduct all its games at empty arenas, then re-enact them in front of fans so officiating crews will not be met with surprises.
Any last-second baskets, or long jump shots made with a toe imperceptibly close to the 3-point line, will have been rehearsed. That will prevent the familiar momentum-killing sight of officiating crews bent over tiny sideline replay monitors while fans around the globe are forced to wait, as if they have time for that.
Now, the outcome of the play will be known before it happens.
''We really feel this will speed up our games,'' N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said in a statement.
Major League Baseball finds replay useful mostly in determining whether a ball lands over a large fence or in front of the fence, or on one side of an enormous neon-colored pole or the other. Rather than relying on replay, baseball is considering whether to gauge home runs by watching to see if the ball goes over the large fence and on one side of the nearest enormous neon-colored pole.
The N.C.A.A. may eliminate the use of instant replay. The outcomes of the games are not important, an N.C.A.A. spokesman said, because what matters most is that the athletes get a good education. Human fallibility is a worthy lesson, he added.
The impetus for all the changes came from last summer's United States Olympic track and field trials, during which Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh tied in the 100 meters. No number of replays -- or discussions over the exact location of the torso -- could discern a winner.
The delay was not minutes, but days. Finally, the answer came straight from the schoolyard: a do-over.
Alas, a runoff never happened; Tarmoh declined to take part.
Still, it made sports executives realize that if we simply had the final answer in the first place, fans would not be forced to wait for the result. The solution, in front of us all along, is simply to make replay the game itself.
* * *
What Might Have Been, or Still Could Be
By Barry Bearak
When Derrick Rose went down with a torn-up left knee, it was hard not to contemplate the career he might never have: the lost Most Valuable Player awards and the never-to-be-won N.B.A. titles. The Chicago Bulls announcer Stacey King liked to describe the electrifying Rose as ''too big, too strong, too fast, too good.''
Was he now to add ''too sad''?
The post-Michael Jordan Bulls were a dismal, star-crossed team, suffering a decade of mediocrity until a gust of good luck blew their way. In the 2008 draft, the team vaulted from the No. 9 spot to No. 1, hitting the jackpot when they had only a 1.7 percent chance to win the lottery.
Rose, a 19-year-old point guard and Chicago native, became the rookie of the year and then an All-Star, then the league's youngest M.V.P. ever, leading the Bulls to the N.B.A.'s best record two years in a row. He was also likable in a Windy City sort of way: not a preening, partying prima donna, but a guy who squared his big shoulders and quietly went about his business.
In the strike-shortened 2011-12 season, Rose missed 27 of the 66 games with injuries that seemed to skip up and down his lower extremities: the foot, the ankle, the knee, the groin. But he was healthy in April when the playoffs began, and in the first game of the opening series, the top-seeded Bulls were easily beating the Philadelphia 76ers.
Then, with 1 minute 22 seconds left and Chicago ahead by 12, Rose moved toward the hoop with the ball, cutting right in his customary whirligig fashion, though this time awkwardly planting his left foot on the floor. He heard a pop. He had torn the anterior cruciate ligament.
Rose writhed in pain. The arena went silent. And the long months of wondering began. Would a reborn Derrick Rose with a rebuilt knee ever again come gyrating through the lane -- too big, too strong, too fast, too good -- looking every bit as amazing as the original?
* * *
No Place to Hide When a Ball Comes Back
By Tyler Kepner
It was an ordinary pitch, 91 miles per hour on the outside corner, not much different from the 1,651 others Brandon McCarthy had thrown last season. From the press box at Oakland Coliseum that September afternoon, it looked for an instant like a routine single to center by the Angels' Erick Aybar.
But the ball never got there. It crashed into the back of McCarthy's head. He tried to escape its path but could not react in time. McCarthy, then with the Athletics, crumpled to the ground. It was a moment that made you wince -- ''It was really hard to see,'' his opponent, Dan Haren, said after the game -- but McCarthy sat up almost instantly, running his hands through his hair, and he walked off the field. Disaster averted.
Again, a wrong assumption, or nearly so. McCarthy was taken to a hospital for a precautionary examination, and soon, he was in surgery. The line drive had fractured his skull and caused an epidural hemorrhage and brain contusion. McCarthy recovered but missed the rest of the season.
The next month, across the bay in San Francisco in Game 2 of the World Series, another tall and lanky right-hander threw another pitch destined for danger. Doug Fister of the Detroit Tigers took a liner off the right side of his head from the Giants' Gregor Blanco. Yet Fister did not even fall. After an exam on the mound, he kept pitching.
''Got a little bump,'' he said by his locker, casually. ''Other than that, there's nothing.''
The events were harrowing reminders of the destructive force of a batted ball, and the varying consequences of two hits that may look the same. McCarthy was lucky to be alive; Fister was luckier still. But a first-base coach in the minors, Mike Coolbaugh, was killed by a foul ball in 2007. Now all base coaches in the minors and the majors wear helmets.
After Fister was struck, the Fox broadcaster Tim McCarver raised on the air the possibility of pitchers' wearing helmets. Some players lampooned the idea on Twitter, but in December, ESPN reported that baseball was working with six companies designing protective headgear for pitchers. A selection of prototypes could be available in time for spring training.
Hitters have been slow to accept safer, oversize helmets, and a padded pitcher's cap would seem to face similar resistance. Pitchers depend on precise, repetitive movements and will be wary of anything disruptive. Besides, nobody wants to look funny.
Comfort, style and safety are often competing interests. Sometimes, though, they could come together to save a pitcher's life. Let's hope it happens soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: IN PICTURES: AMATEURS: Eager to Push Themselves: Kaytlynn Welsch, 12, running a trail race in Utah, above. She and her younger sister, Heather, compete in demanding endurance races across the West, earning (mostly) praise from their father and worried looks from some of their adult competitors. Far left, top-ranked Erasmus Hall of Brooklyn beat Tottenville of Staten Island, 15-14, to win the P.S.A.L. football championship at Yankee Stadium on Dec. 4. Around the city, tennis courts remain in demand. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK SZYLARD DAENITZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
BENJAMIN NORMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Johan Santana after the final out against the Cardinals on June 1, which capped the first no-hitter in the Mets' 51 seasons. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX TRAUTWIG/METS, VIA E.P.A.)
Coach Jurgen Klinsmann, right, tinkered with positions and personalities on the U.S. team throughout 2012. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NICHOLAS KAMM/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (D2)
At Coffey Park in Red Hook, Brooklyn, the nets are often missing and the air is filled with shouts that range from placeholders like ''I got next!'' to skills analysis like ''You ain't got nothing!'' In June, yoga practitioners from around the world gathered at an airport hotel in Los Angeles to crown a series of champions, turning the halls around the competition site into impromptu workout studios. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TODD HEISLER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
PIOTR REDLINSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
The rookie starter Jeremy Hefner shut out the Astros for eight innings on Aug. 26 but was denied the win. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG RUTTLE/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 The referee Kenny Bayless with Manny Pacquiao, who was knocked cold on Dec. 8. The loss was the surest sign yet that he will never face Floyd Mayweather Jr. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JULIE JACOBSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOXING (90%); SPORTS FANS (78%); BASEBALL (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (72%); PAY PER VIEW (72%); GUILTY PLEAS (68%); CRIMINAL ASSAULT & BATTERY (68%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (68%); MISDEMEANORS (68%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (63%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (84%)

PERSON: MANNY PACQUIAO (89%); MITT ROMNEY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



937 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 794 words

HEADLINE: Save Mali Before It's Too Late

BYLINE: By OUMOU SALL SECK. 
Oumou Sall Seck is the mayor of Goundam, a town in northern Mali. This essay was translated by Edward Gauvin from the French.

 BODY:
Bamako, Mali
HOW would the United States government react if a huge section of its territory were occupied by terrorists and drug traffickers who raped women and forced them to marry? If children were conscripted and deprived of their education? If citizens had their hands and feet cut off? That is precisely what has happened to the once peaceful and democratic nation of Mali.
Life in northern Mali before the rebels and Islamic extremists arrived was calm; we lived together harmoniously in a community of various languages and backgrounds, including people of Tuareg, Sonraï, Bambara and Peul ethnicities. Coexistence of different ethnic groups in a secular society has long been a fundamental value in Mali, and our cultural diversity enriched us. 
In 2004, I became the first woman to be elected mayor of a town in northern Mali. It wasn't easy in this ultraconservative region. We built a community center to encourage the economic self-sufficiency of women, who accounted for more than half the town's population of about 16,000. Despite many difficulties, the initiation of development projects created a real sense of hope among the population. Even if the economy was slow to take off, it was progress. Now it is all in shambles.
Jihadist criminal groups like Ansar Dine and the Movement for Unity and Jihad in West Africa, working with drug traffickers and armed separatists, are threatening democratic institutions, national unity and secularism in Mali.
Our democracy, achieved through great struggle, has shown its weaknesses. Poorly handled rebellions, a failure to decentralize political power and an influx of armed men and drug traffickers during and after the 2011 war in Libya have all contributed to our present crisis.
In the spring of 2011, a group of secular Tuareg separatists, the National Movement for the Liberation of Azawad, grew stronger when its fighters returned from nearby Libya with heavy weapons to liberate northern Mali, which they call Azawad. The movement formed a military alliance of convenience with jihadists in the region. Together, they quickly routed the Malian Army, but simmering mistrust and bitter disagreements eventually led to a split, with the jihadists gaining the upper hand. The collapse of our military in the north left us in an appalling situation: a country without an army to protect its citizens.
I was forced to flee the town I govern earlier this year when jihadists and separatists took over. Goundam, like other northern towns, was left foundering in total chaos: there was no government, no schools, no libraries, no electricity and no freedom for our citizens.
The rebels and extremists looted our health center's stores of medicine and equipment. Not even our personal belongings were spared. Women were driven from the community center, where they had been working to earn a living -- and all of this was supposedly in the name of establishing Shariah.
Lawless and godless men -- who hide behind Shariah and demands for Tuareg independence -- are now beating and raping women and conscripting children to fight their ''holy'' war.
And the greatest tragedy is that people are starting to get used to it. Isolated from public life, women can no longer dress as they wish or freely go about their business. Children no longer attend school. In short, our development efforts have been destroyed.
Immediately reclaiming northern Mali from violent extremists must become a priority. And it can't be done without international help, especially from key powers like America and France. The United Nations, the European Union, the African Union and the Economic Community of West African States must all do their part to resolve the crisis before it becomes a greater threat.
After recovering its lost territory, Mali needs help in organizing free, transparent and credible elections to choose representatives who are elected by -- and not imposed upon -- the citizens. We also need help reconstituting a national army, accelerating political decentralization, strengthening civil society groups and making economic development a fundamental part of re-establishing security.
I was staggered to hear the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, express his fear in a report last month that a humanitarian disaster might result from military intervention in Mali. The disaster is already upon us. Could there be any disaster more grave than the one we're already living?
President Obama must not allow northern Mali to become a hotbed of terrorists and drug traffickers that poses a danger to the entire world.
The United States has intervened in less dire situations. I call upon its conscience. Please help us get our families out of their wretched distress. We are innocent victims. We cannot do it alone.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); RELIGION (89%); TERRORISM (78%); WOMEN (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (76%); ETHNIC GROUPS (75%); CITIES (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); POLITICS (71%); ETHNICITY (70%); POWER FAILURES (69%); MAYORS (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MALI (99%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); AFRICA (79%); WESTERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



938 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 329 words

HEADLINE: Central African Republic Forces Fight for City Held by Rebels

BYLINE: By AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE

 BODY:
BANGUI, Central African Republic (Agence France-Presse) -- Government soldiers on Friday battled to recapture a city held by rebels, a military official said, as regional negotiators continued to seek a peaceful end to the crisis by arranging for the two sides to talk. 
The official said the fighting in the captured city, Bambari, which members of a rebel coalition seized on Sunday, was ''especially violent.''
The Central African Republic's neighbors took steps Friday to address the crisis, as rebels advanced toward the capital, Bangui, stoking fears of wider violence.
Foreign ministers in the 10-member Economic Community of Central African States planned to discuss the crisis at a meeting in Gabon.
The organization's deputy secretary general, Guy-Pierre Garcia, said late Friday that the rebels and the government had agreed to hold talks.
An official with the Central African Multinational Force, the regional peacekeeping organization, said the goal was to open talks between the two sides by Jan. 10.
A diplomatic team from the multinational force has begun talks with the authorities in Bangui and sent a delegation to the rebel-held town of Ndélé in the north to meet rebel leaders.
Fears about the deteriorating security situation have led the United States to evacuate its embassy in Bangui and the United Nations to withdraw its staff members from the country. The International Committee of the Red Cross said Friday that it, too, had evacuated some workers, although it said it would continue to provide aid to the growing number of displaced people.
The United Nations has demanded that the rebels halt their offensive, and urged President François Bozizé's government to ensure the safety of civilians amid fears of a breakdown in law and order.
A coalition of three rebel movements known as Seleka has taken several towns, including four regional capitals. The rebels accuse the government of failing to fulfill the terms of peace pacts signed in 2007 and 2001.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President François Bozizé appealed for help on Thursday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (94%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (75%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (74%); DISPLACED PERSONS (70%)

COMPANY: AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE (58%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC COMMUNITY OF CENTRAL AFRICAN STATES (57%); INTERNATIONAL COMMITTEE OF THE RED CROSS (54%); UNITED NATIONS (54%); INTERNATIONAL RED CROSS & RED CRESCENT MOVEMENT (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CENTRAL AFRICAN REPUBLIC (95%); CENTRAL AFRICA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); AFRICA (79%); GABON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



939 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Sprawling Memphis Aims to Be A Friendlier Place for Cyclists

BYLINE: By BOBBY ALLYN

 BODY:
MEMPHIS -- John Jordan, a 64-year-old condo appraiser here, has been pedaling his cruiser bicycle around town nearly every day, tooling about at lunchtime or zipping to downtown appointments.
''It's my cholesterol-lowering device,'' said Mr. Jordan, clad in a leather vest and wearing a bright white beard. ''The problem is, the city needs to educate motorists to not run over'' the bicyclists.
Bike-friendly behavior has never come naturally to Memphis, which has long been among the country's most perilous places for cyclists. In recent years, though, riders have taken to the streets like never before, spurred by a mayor who has worked to change the way residents think about commuting. 
Mayor A. C. Wharton Jr., elected in 2009, assumed office a year after Bicycling magazine named Memphis one of the worst cities in America for cyclists, not the first time the city had received such a biking dishonor. But Mr. Wharton spied an opportunity.
In 2008, Memphis had a mile and a half of bike lanes. There are now about 50 miles of dedicated lanes, and about 160 miles when trails and shared roads are included. The bulk of the nearly $1 million investment came from stimulus money and other federal sources, and Shelby County, which includes Memphis, was recently awarded an additional $4.7 million for bike projects.
In June, federal officials awarded Memphis $15 million to turn part of the steel truss Harahan Bridge, which spans the Mississippi River, into a bike and pedestrian crossing. Scheduled to open in about two years, the $30 million project will link downtown Memphis with West Memphis, Ark.
''We need to make biking part of our DNA,'' Mr. Wharton said. ''I'm trying to build a city for the people who will be running it 5, 10, 15 years from now. And in a region known to some for rigid thinking, the receptivity has been remarkable.''
City planners are using bike lanes as an economic development tool, setting the stage for new stores and enhanced urban vibrancy, said Kyle Wagenschutz, the city's bike-pedestrian coordinator, a position the mayor created.
''The cycling advocates have been vocal the past 10 years, but nothing ever happened,'' Mr. Wagenschutz said. ''It took a change of political will to catalyze the movement.''
Memphis, with a population of 650,000, is often cited among the unhealthiest, most crime-ridden and most auto-centric cities in the country. Investments in bicycling are being viewed here as a way to promote healthy habits, community bonds and greater environmental stewardship.
But as city leaders struggle with a sprawling landscape -- Memphis covers about the same amount of land as Dallas, yet has half the population -- their persistence has run up against another bedeviling factor: merchants and others who are disgruntled about the lanes.
A clash between merchants and bike advocates flared last year after the mayor announced new bike lanes on Madison Avenue, a commercial artery, that would remove two traffic lanes. Many merchants, like Eric Vernon, who runs the Bar-B-Q Shop, feared that removing car lanes would hurt businesses and cause parking confusion. Mr. Vernon said that sales had not fallen significantly since the bike lanes were installed, but that he thought merchants were left out of the process.
On McLean Boulevard, a narrow residential strip where roadside parking was replaced by bike paths, homeowners cried foul. The city reached a compromise with residents in which parking was outlawed during the day but permitted at night, when fewer cyclists were out. Mr. Wagenschutz called the nocturnal arrangement a ''Cinderella lane.''
Some residents, however, were not mollified. ''I'm not against bike lanes, but we're isolated because there's no place to park,'' said Carey Potter, 53, a longtime resident who started a petition to reinstate full-time parking.
The changes have been panned by some members of the City Council. Councilman Jim Strickland went as far as to say that the bike signs that dot the streets add ''to the blight of our city.''
Tensions aside, the mayor's office says that the potential economic ripple effect of bike lanes is proof that they are a sound investment.
A study in 2011 by the University of Massachusetts found that building bike lanes created more jobs -- about 11 per $1 million spent -- than any other type of road project. Several bike shops here have expanded to accommodate new cyclists, including Midtown Bike Company, which recently moved to a location three times the size of its former one. ''The new lanes have been great for business,'' said the manager, Daniel Duckworth.
Wanda Rushing, a professor at the University of Memphis and an expert on urban change in the South, said bike improvements were of a piece with a development model sweeping the region: bolstering transportation infrastructure and population density in the inner city.
''Memphis is not alone in acknowledging that sprawl is not sustainable,'' Dr. Rushing said. ''Economic necessity is a pretty good melding substance.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Shelby Farms Greenline, which replaced a Memphis rail line. The city has opened dozens of miles of bike lanes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LANCE MURPHEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); CITIES (89%); CHOLESTEROL (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEMPHIS, TN, USA (94%) TENNESSEE, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (69%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



940 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BUCKS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: Consumers Cutting Back

BYLINE: By ANN CARRNS

 BODY:
As time ticks away for a resolution to the so-called fiscal cliff mess, some consumers aren't taking any chances.
About one in three Americans has cut back on personal spending over the last month or so because of worries about the impact on the economy -- and their pocketbooks -- if an agreement isn't reached, a survey from Bankrate.com finds. 
But despite all the drama, drastic belt-tightening seems premature to me. Some economists argue that the impact of the "fiscal cliff" -- shorthand for a combination of automatic tax increases and spending cuts that will take effect unless the government acts -- will probably be felt gradually, rather than all at once. And the impact of cuts on the military and other programs can be mitigated, if Congress gets its act together relatively early in 2013. Meanwhile, the economy appears to be gaining steam. The unemployment rate has fallen to 7.7 percent, and the housing market continues to recover.
It's true, though, that some effects, including a two percentage point increase in the payroll tax and the end of unemployment benefits for more than two million people -- would be felt right away. And those two hits may weigh most heavily on consumers who are most likely to say they're cutting back. Consumers most inclined to have cut their spending over the last 30 days, the survey found, include those with annual income under $30,000 and those with no more than a high school diploma.
"The risks of going over the fiscal cliff are beginning to resonate with consumers much the way they have with businesses that have held back in recent months," Greg McBride, Bankrate's senior financial analyst, said in a statement.
The telephone survey of 1,001 adults was conducted by Princeton Survey Research Associates International from Dec. 6 to 9. The margin of sampling error is plus or minus four percentage points.
Are you cutting back on spending because of worries about the tax situation? What steps have you taken?
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); TAX LAW (75%); HOUSING MARKET (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



941 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE CHARTS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: In a 5-Year Comparison, the U.S. Recovery Fares Well

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS. 
Floyd Norris comments on finance and the economy at nytimes.com/economix.

 BODY:
Five years ago, the world economy seemed to be doing fine.
But it wasn't. The fourth quarter of 2007 was the peak for the American economy. It began a mild recession in early 2008 that turned into a severe one by late in the year, when the credit crisis spread to most of the world. A few countries escaped recession, but virtually no one was able to avoid severe bear markets in stocks. 
The accompanying charts look at changes in gross domestic product and stock markets around the world since the end of 2007.
In some countries, including the largest developing economies in Asia, the G.D.P. charts show no indication that bad things ever happened. China's G.D.P. growth slowed a bit, and may be slowing more now, but it never came close to recession.
By the third quarter of 2012 China's gross domestic product, measured in local currency and adjusted for inflation, was 50 percent larger than it had been at the end of 2007. The economies of India and Indonesia had each grown by 30 percent.
At the other end of the spectrum, some major economies are smaller now than they were then, with little indication that they will completely recover any time soon. The Italian and Spanish economies, hurt by their inability to compete with Germany in export markets, continue to decline. Spain's economy is smaller than it was in 2005, while Italy's has fallen below 2003 levels.
Both would be doing better if they were able to devalue their currencies against Germany's, but they cannot because they share the euro.
Not being in the euro has been critical to the success of some European countries. Poland's economy has grown by about 15 percent, measured in local currency, as the value of the zloty fell sharply in late 2008 and has yet to fully recover against the euro. That has made its exports more competitive.
While some developing economies have showed good growth over the last five years, their stock markets have not done well. In early 2008, China's market broke sharply lower, leading to fears that a world recession might begin there. Nothing like that happened, but the stock market has yet to fully recover.
The United States has perhaps the best combined record of major developed economies. Its G.D.P. is 2.5 percent larger than it was at the end of 2007 -- a smaller gain than was shown in Australia, Canada or Germany -- but its stock market is closer to recovering all the lost ground than the markets in any of those countries.
MSCI, a research company that compiles stock indexes based on all major stocks in each country, reports that its All Country World Index is now 16 percent lower than it was five years ago. World G.D.P. -- counting all 56 countries for which data through the third quarter of 2012 is available -- has fully recovered, largely because of strength in large emerging economies. Both those figures are calculated in dollars, but individual country charts are based on performance measured in local currencies.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Five Years Later, Some Countries Still Lag: Five years ago, in the fourth quarter of 2007, the United States economy peaked before what became known as the Great Recession set in. Some countries, China and Australia among them, never saw their economies decline, but most did, and some of the largest economies remain smaller than they were in 2007. The world economy -- measured by total gross domestic product in 56 countries for which data are available -- is now about 6 percent larger. But share prices have yet to fully recover in most countries. (Sources: Haver Analytics (G.D.P.)
 Bloomberg (stock indexes)) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); EURO (73%); DEVALUATION (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); GERMANY (93%); AUSTRALIA (90%); CANADA (79%); EUROPE (79%); INDONESIA (79%); ASIA (79%); POLAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); ITALY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



942 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1270 words

HEADLINE: Senate Leaders Start to Create Tax Compromise

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and JENNIFER STEINHAUER; Helene Cooper and Ron Nixon contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- At the urging of President Obama, the Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate set to work Friday night to assemble a last-minute tax deal that could pass both chambers of Congress and avert large tax increases and budget cuts next year, or at least stop the worst of the economic punch from landing beginning Jan. 1.
After weeks of fruitless negotiations between the president and Speaker John A. Boehner, Mr. Obama turned to Senator Harry Reid, the majority leader, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader -- two men who have been fighting for dominance of the Senate for years -- to find a solution. The speaker, once seen as the linchpin for any agreement, essentially ceded final control to the Senate and said the House would act on whatever the Senate could produce.
''The hour for immediate action is here. It is now,'' Mr. Obama said in the White House briefing room after an hourlong meeting with the two Senate leaders, Mr. Boehner and Representative Nancy Pelosi, the House Democratic leader. He added, ''The American people are not going to have any patience for a politically self-inflicted wound to our economy, not right now.'' 
Senate Democrats want Mr. McConnell to propose an alternative to Mr. Obama's final offer and present it to them in time for a compromise bill to reach the Senate floor on Monday and be sent to the House. Absent a bipartisan deal, Mr. Reid said Friday night that he would accede to the president's request to put to a vote on Monday Mr. Obama's plan to extend tax cuts for all income below $250,000 a year and to renew expiring unemployment compensation for as many as two million people, essentially daring Republicans to block it and allow taxes to rise for most Americans.
Bipartisan agreement still hinged on the Senate leaders finding an income level above which taxes will rise on Jan. 1, most likely higher than Mr. Obama's level of $250,000. Quiet negotiations between Senate and White House officials were already drifting up toward around $400,000 before Friday's White House meeting. The two sides were also apart on where to set taxes on inherited estates.
But senators broke from a long huddle on the Senate floor with Mr. McConnell on Friday night to say they were more optimistic that a deal was within reach. Mr. McConnell, White House aides and Mr. Reid were to continue talks on Saturday, aiming for a breakthrough as soon as Sunday.
''We're working with the White House, and hopefully we'll come up with something we can recommend to our respective caucuses,'' said Mr. McConnell, who has played a central role in cutting similar bipartisan deals in the past.
The emerging path to a possible resolution, at least on Friday, appeared to mirror the end of the protracted stalemate over the payroll tax last year. In that conflict, House Republicans refused to go along with a short-term extension of the cut, but Mr. McConnell reached an agreement that permitted such a measure to get through the Senate, and the House speaker essentially forced members to accept it from afar, after they had left forChristmas recess.
This time, the consequences are more significant, with more than a half-trillion dollars in tax increases and across-the-board spending cuts just days from going into force, an event most economists warn would send the economy back into recession if not quickly mitigated. With the House set to return to the Capitol on Sunday night, Mr. Boehner has said he would place any Senate bill before his chamber and let the vote proceed and the chips fall. The House could also change the legislation and return it to the Senate.
If the Senate is able to produce a bill that is largely bipartisan, there is a strong belief among House Republicans that the same measure would easily pass the House, with a large number of Republicans. While Mr. Boehner was unable to muster enough votes for his alternative bill that would have protected tax cuts for income under $1 million, that was because the measure lacked Democratic support, and was roughly a few dozen votes shy of passage with Republicans alone.
''I've got a positive feeling now,'' said Senator Kay Bailey Hutchison, Republican of Texas, who said a burst of deal-making talk broke out as soon as the leaders returned to the Capitol.
Despite the new optimism, it was clear that any deal in the next three days would only alleviate the worst aspects of the ''fiscal cliff'' while leaving big decisions on taxes and spending to the next showdown, most likely by February when Congress must raise the government's debt limit. A Republican aide briefed on the meeting said the speaker told the other negotiators that House Republicans would not turn off $100 billion in automatic military and domestic spending cuts in 2013 without equivalent cuts elsewhere. Also likely to be left out of a deal is any agreement to raise the debt limit.
But Mr. Boehner appeared to recognize that he was no longer dictating terms. According to the aide, the speaker said repeatedly, ''Let us know what you come up with, and we'll consider it -- accept it or amend it.''
Even before the meeting, Senator Max Baucus of Montana, chairman of the Finance Committee, said ''things are starting to gel'' around a deal. According to aides familiar with the talks, the plan, in its early stages, centered on a deal that would extend all the expiring Bush income tax cuts up to $400,000 in income.
Some spending cuts would pay for a provision putting off a sudden reduction in payments to medical providers treating Medicare patients. The deal would also prevent an expansion of the alternative minimum tax to keep it from hitting more of the middle class. It would extend a raft of already expired business tax cuts, like the research and development credit, and would renew tax cuts for the working poor and the middle class included in the 2009 stimulus law.
Democrats from high-tax, high-wealth states have pressed the White House and their leaders to accept a threshold higher than the president's $250,000, but they appear ready to accept anything that can pass.
''I have a very practical standard to apply: whatever threshold we need to avoid the fiscal cliff,'' said Senator Joseph I. Lieberman, a Democrat turned independent from Connecticut.
After the meeting, Mr. Obama and officials at the White House appeared visibly optimistic. The president was cheerful with his aides before he walked into the Brady Press Briefing Room to deliver his remarks before assembled reporters. A person briefed on the meeting described a ''give and take'' atmosphere.
''They could have just sat there,'' said the person, who was not authorized to discuss the negotiations publicly. ''But they didn't; they were going back and forth, which is a pretty good sign.''
In an effort to keep the pressure on, Mr. Obama, for the second time in his presidency, has agreed to appear on NBC's ''Meet the Press'' on Sunday, giving him a forum to push for a deal and to provide his view of the state of the negotiations.
Hoping to stave off the expiration of dozens of farm programs and the carrying out of a 1949 farm law that could double the price of milk, Senate and House leaders were also working on legislation to extend the current farm bill. The most recent farm bill, passed in 2008, expired on Sept. 30. If a new farm bill is not passed or the current one extended, farm programs would lose billions in financing and revert to the 1949 law.
The old law would reintroduce higher government price supports for milk, corn, rice, wheat and other crops and could lead to higher consumer prices and federal spending.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Senator Mitch McConnell, above center, the minority leader, will work with Senator Harry Reid on a bipartisan bill. At left, Representative Chris Van Hollen at a news conference on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 T. J. KIRKPATRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET CUTS (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HARRY REID (89%); MITCH MCCONNELL (89%); JOHN BOEHNER (73%); NANCY PELOSI (58%); CHRIS VAN HOLLEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



943 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 551 words

HEADLINE: Housing and Factory Data Point to Economic Gains

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON (Reuters) -- Contracts for home resales hit a two-and-a-half-year high in November and factory activity in the Midwest expanded this month, suggesting some economic strength despite the threat of tighter fiscal policy.
The National Association of Realtors said on Friday that its pending home sales index, based on contracts signed last month, increased 1.7 percent to 106.4, the highest level since April 2010, when the homebuyer tax credit expired. 
November was the third consecutive month of gains for signed contracts, which become sales after a month or two. There was a 5 percent rise in October.
A separate report showed that the Institute for Supply Management's Chicago business barometer rose to 51.6 in December, from 50.4 in November. A reading above 50 indicates expansion in the regional economy. It was the second consecutive month of growth and was driven by a rebound in new orders.
The data suggested that some of the growth momentum from the third quarter carried into the final three months of 2012, even as businesses and households braced for sharp cuts in government spending and higher taxes in the new year.
Data in the fourth quarter, including consumer spending, housing, employment and various manufacturing indicators, have been fairly upbeat so far.
''We don't see much evidence that the economy was slowing as we headed into the end of the year, but everything could change on Jan. 1,'' said John Ryding, chief economist at RDQ Economics in New York.
There are fears that budget talks in Washington will fail to prevent $600 billion in government spending cuts and higher taxes, which could tip the economy back into recession.
''There is nothing here to suggest that the economy has enough momentum to withstand the shock if we go over the fiscal cliff with no quick return,'' Mr. Ryding said. ''The good news right now is it looks like we could have the mid-2s kind'' of G.D.P. growth in the fourth quarter.
The economy grew at a 3.1 percent annual rate in the third quarter. The latest Reuters survey of economists put fourth-quarter G.D.P. growth at a 1.2 percent rate, with the decline a result mostly of Hurricane Sandy, which struck the East Coast in late October, and of cutbacks in business spending.
Though the employment gauge in the I.S.M.-Chicago survey fell to a three-year low in December, economists expect a rebound given the strength in new orders.
''The drop in employment reflects the weakness in new orders in November and, to a lesser degree, the fiscal cliff,'' said Eric Green, an analyst at TD Securities in New York. ''With the bounce-back in new orders, employment will also bounce back.''
The pending home sales report indicated a strengthening in the housing market recovery. Contracts were up 9.8 percent in the 12 months through November.
The housing market has turned a corner after the collapse that dragged the economy through its worst recession since the Great Depression.
Home sales and prices are rising, encouraging builders to pursue new construction projects. Home resale contracts were up in three of the country's four regions, and steady in the South.
''The housing revival seems to be happening in a way that puts some positive feedback loop, a virtuous cycle, into the economy,'' said Jerry Webman, chief economist at OppenheimerFunds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXISTING HOME SALES (90%); NEW ORDERS (89%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (86%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RECESSION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); STATISTICS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (74%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TAX LAW (70%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (70%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



944 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 632 words

HEADLINE: Pessimism About Fiscal Gridlock Extends a Slide

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Stocks fell for a fifth day, the longest such streak since July, on concern that lawmakers in Washington would fail to reach a budget deal before a year-end deadline.
The Dow Jones industrial average dropped 158.20 points to 12,938.11, with losses accelerating in the last 20 minutes of trading as reports circulated that President Obama would not be making a new budget proposal in a meeting with Congressional leaders.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 15.67 points to 1,402.43, its longest losing streak in three months, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 25.59 points to 2,960.31. 
''The reality, late in the day, is that a deal is just not going to get done,'' said Ryan Detrick, a senior technical strategist at Schaeffer's Investment Research. ''We could be greeted by a big sell-off at the start of January.''
President Obama returned from a Christmas break in Hawaii to meet with Congressional leaders at the White House in the hopes of preventing across-the-board tax increases and government spending cuts beginning Jan. 1. Economists have said that if those measures are put in place, it could push the economy back into recession.
Traders have been focusing on Washington and the budget negotiations since the Nov. 6 elections returned a divided government to power. Stocks closed lower Thursday but erased most of an early loss after Republicans said they would reconvene the House of Representatives on Sunday.
''I can't wait till this is done, so we can start talking about markets again and not just about politics,'' said Doug Cote, chief market strategist at ING Investment Management.
Mr. Cote said that he expected that lawmakers would not reach a deal before the deadline and that when people assessed the extent of tax increases on the way, ''the market is going to reel.'' Mr. Cote also expected slowing earnings growth to drag down stocks.
Despite the fiscal gridlock in Washington, major stock indexes are holding on to gains for the year. The Dow is up 5.9 percent, the S. & P. 500 is 11.5 percent higher, and the Nasdaq is up 13.6 percent.
Stocks rose in 2012 on optimism that a recovery in the housing market, coupled with an improving job market, would support economic growth. The Federal Reserve had also extended its bond-buying program, which is intended to lower borrowing costs and encourage spending and investment.
While stocks declined on Friday, reports suggested the outlook for the economy was improving.
A measure of Americans who signed contracts to buy homes increased last month to its highest level in two and a half years, the latest sign of improvement in the once-battered housing market. The National Association of Realtors said Friday that its seasonally adjusted pending home sales index rose to its highest reading since April 2010.
The Institute for Supply Management's Chicago-area purchasing managers index for December came in at 51.6, beating estimates for a gain to 51.
Bond prices rose as investors moved money into defensive investments. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note rose 9/32 to 99 10/32 and the yield fell to 1.70 percent from 1.73 percent late Thursday.
Stock in Hewlett-Packard, the computer and printer maker, fell 36 cents, or 2.6 percent, to $13.68 after the company said the Justice Department was investigating its software unit Autonomy. H.P. bought Autonomy for $10 billion in 2011 and has accused the company's former management of falsifying its accounting before the acquisition.
H.P. has lost almost half of its market value this year, making it the biggest decliner among the 30 stocks in the Dow average.
Barnes & Noble shares rose 62 cents, or 4.3 percent, to $14.97 after the British publishing and education company Pearson said it was making an $89.5 million investment in the company's Nook Media division.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The New York Stock Exchange on Friday. Market indicators declined for the fifth consecutive day, the longest skid since July. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SETH WENIG/ASSOCIATED PRESS) CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BUDGETS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); POLITICS (76%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); PROPERTY PURCHASE AGREEMENTS (67%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); EMPLOYMENT (63%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (60%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (60%); CHRISTMAS (52%)

COMPANY: ING GROEP NV (56%)

TICKER: INGA (BIT) (56%); INGA (AMS) (56%); ING (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS525910 OPEN-END INVESTMENT FUNDS (56%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



945 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: How to Prepare When Next Year's Tax Rates Are Anyone's Guess

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
This was the week we were supposed to get a grand bargain. Instead, we got an undignified stalemate.
So we're left with no idea how much we'll be paying in federal income taxes in 2013, and a wide range of possibilities for taxes on investments and estates and tax deductions for mortgage interest and charitable contributions. Plenty of people will spend the next several days feeling helpless, with one eye on the stock market and the other on Washington.
For all the uncertainty, though, we do know a bit about how things will change next year. For example, new taxes, some of which will help pay for Medicare, will affect a few million affluent households.
We also know that in all likelihood, whatever happens in Washington in the coming days or weeks won't come close to solving the problem that tends to clear the room when you say it aloud: We are not collecting enough money to pay for the promises we've made to one another. It isn't just Medicare, either. Many states have steadfastly refused to set aside the trillions of dollars they will need to cover benefits for public workers once they retire. 
As for what you should do about all of this, the answer, for now, is probably nothing. In the short term, stock prices may decline and the economy may get the hiccups, but it's foolish for amateurs to try to alter their investment portfolios to take advantage of the situation. Leave that to the hedge funds, and watch how many of them get it wrong.
In the long term, however, prepare to make the kind of attitude adjustment that can take awhile to embrace. A decade or two from now, most of us will probably be paying more in taxes or getting fewer services from the government than we do now. Once that happens, you'll need to earn more, save more, live on less or take better advantage of legal tax avoidance strategies.
In fact, you may want to try to do all of these things in the next couple of years, just to see which ones you can accomplish with the least amount of pain.
Here is what we do know will happen in 2013. First, there is a new tax of 0.9 percent on wages, other compensation and self-employment income above $200,000, if you're single, or $250,000, if you're married and filing your taxes jointly. This is on top of the existing Medicare tax.
Second, there is a new tax of 3.8 percent on investment earnings, including interest, dividends and capital gains, in addition to whatever the capital gains tax ends up being. It applies to single people with modified adjusted gross income of $200,000, or $250,000 for married couples filing jointly.
There is still some time to maneuver around the second tax. If you have winning investments you were planning to sell soon anyway, say for a down payment on a house, you might as well do it by Monday. That way, you can avoid the new tax if you're certain you'll be in the qualifying income category next year.
A few other changes: For now, you can generally take a tax deduction only for unreimbursed medical expenses that exceed 7.5 percent of your adjusted gross income. That floor will rise to 10 percent next year, except for people 65 and over, who won't be subject to it until 2017.
Also, if you save money in a flexible spending account for health care expenses, 2013 will bring a $2,500 cap on what you can set aside each year while avoiding income taxes. Many people routinely saved $5,000 in the past.
In the next few weeks, we'll presumably learn more about the new tax rates on income, capital gains, dividends and estates. A solution may come in stages, with a temporary patch now and the promise of a longer-term deal later.
But this is only the beginning, and if you want to read the Stephen King version of our collective fiscal story, there are a few sources to consult. You could start with the radical centrists at Third Way, a research group, who are the best splashers of cold water that I've read on the topic of the federal budget. They present some truly scary data while trying to persuade Democrats to accept cuts to Medicare and other programs.
In 2010, for instance, 11,712 people turned 25 each day, while just 6,670 turned 65. By 2030, 12,499 people will be turning 25 each day, but the number turning 65 will jump to 10,948. The 65-year-olds in 2030 will probably live longer than the people who turned 65 in 2010, and keeping them alive could cost a lot more.
The Pew Center on the States, using the states' own actuarial data, estimates that there is a $1.38 trillion dollar gap between what governments have set aside to pay for public employees' pensions and retiree health care costs and their actual obligations. Robert Novy-Marx, an assistant professor at the University of Rochester's Simon Graduate School of Business, and Joshua D. Rauh, a professor at the Stanford Graduate School of Business, believe the shortfall in pension financing alone is actually $3 trillion to $4 trillion.
If states were to try to fill the gap solely by raising taxes, Mr. Novy-Marx and Mr. Rauh estimate that the cost per household in 2011 would have been $2,250 in New York, $2,000 in New Jersey and $1,994 in California -- and we'd need to pay that amount every year for 30 years, with adjustments for inflation. Happy New Year!
These numbers boggle the mind, which is why you're not seeing them in the newsletters that state legislators send to your home. Instead, lawmakers are trying to change the benefits promised to public employees. But even minor changes have led to lawsuits that could take a decade to resolve. By then, the obligations will probably have grown much larger.
Read enough of these reality checks, and a hazy sort of reckoning starts to take shape. It's not clear how high taxes will go or how many services -- from retiree health care to garbage removal -- we may someday need to pay more for, or cover ourselves. But it's going to cost you more money one way or the other, unless you're in a truly low tax bracket.
That brings us to those legal tax avoidance maneuvers, which often benefit people who can save. Flexible spending accounts for medical costs will still save you hundreds of dollars in taxes each year, even with a $2,500 cap. A health savings account, the kind that pairs up with a high-deductible health insurance policy, can grow into a sizable pile if you save the money and use it in retirement instead of to pay out-of-pocket medical expenses now. And the fact that the affluent can still avoid capital gains taxes, and get an income tax break in many states, on hundreds of thousands of dollars of college savings via 529 plans is a minor miracle.
There is also the Roth individual retirement account, where even the low-six-figure set can put away money on which they've already paid income taxes, leave it there for decades in stocks and bonds, and pull it out without paying a dime of capital gains or other taxes.
That's the story -- for now, at least. In 30 or 40 years, if things are really grim, might the federal government try to tax withdrawals from Roth accounts with enormous balances? As we're learning now, most great tax deals, like the mortgage interest deduction for beach houses and the tax-free health insurance benefits that many of us get from our employers, may not last forever.
We don't have much control over what will happen in Washington or our state capitals next year, or 10 years from now. But most of us can probably find ways to earn a little more, save a little extra or spend a little less. Pick just one of those options, make it your New Year's resolution and see if it helps you feel more in control of your financial destiny by this time next year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The threat of tax increases and government spending cuts on Jan. 1 has led to protests, and to financial planning headaches. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) DRAWING (DRAWING BY ROBERT NEUBECKER) (B1)
 CHART: The Race to Senior Citizenship: Over the next two decades, more and more people will turn 65 each day, but the number of new 25-year-olds available to help pay their health care costs will not rise anywhere nearly as quickly. (Source: Third Way) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (89%); MEDICARE (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (72%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); MARRIAGE (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



946 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: Guns and Mental Illness

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
Gail Collins is off today.

 BODY:
Many years ago, when I was a young reporter at Texas Monthly magazine, I spent the better part of six months in the company of a man who suffered from schizophrenia. His name was Fred Thomas; he was 23 years old; and he had been steadily deteriorating since high school, which is when most men first show symptoms of the disease.
I watched Fred as he was shuttled in and out of the state hospital in Austin, Tex. -- one of the few that had not been closed down by the mid-1980s -- where he was wildly overmedicated, and then released to either his mother's home, which was invariably disastrous, or a halfway house ill equipped to help someone as delusional as he was. 
I learned about the group homes that had sprung up after the closure of the mental hospitals. They were so gruesome that one outplacement worker told me she had never been to one ''because I don't want to know where I am sending them.'' I spent time at a homeless shelter that had become, in effect, a mental institution without doctors or aides. Ultimately, the article I wrote was about how the ''deinstitutionalization movement'' of the 1960s and early 1970s -- a movement prompted by the same liberal impulses that gave us civil rights and women's rights -- had become a national disgrace.
What spurs this recollection are two things. The first is Nina Bernstein's powerful report in The Times this week about the plight of the mentally ill in New York. Although the article was pegged to the loss of services after Hurricane Sandy, in truth, Sandy only exacerbated a situation that was already terrible. With the mentally ill rarely institutionalized for any length of time -- on the theory that their lives will be better if they are not confined in a hospital -- other institutions have sprung up to take their place.
Prisons, for instance. According to E. Fuller Torrey, a psychiatrist who founded the Treatment Advocacy Center, a staggering 20 percent of the prison population is seriously mentally ill. Around a third of the homeless are mentally ill.
And one more statistic: ''Ten percent of homicides are committed by seriously mentally ill people who are not being treated,'' says Torrey.
In the wake of the massacres in Aurora, Colo., and Newtown, Conn., there have been essentially two central arguments about the cause. Liberals have stressed the need for new gun regulations that would make it more difficult for the likes of James Holmes and Adam Lanza to get ahold of killing machines like semiautomatics. There is no lack of sensible ideas: background checks for all gun purchasers, a national registry that would allow guns to be traced, an assault weapons ban, controls on ammunition, and so on. Nouriel Roubini, the economist, wrote in a Twitter message that gun owners should be required to have liability insurance, an intriguing idea. Some legislators who once blindly followed the bidding of the National Rifle Association are now saying they are reconsidering in the wake of Newtown.
Many conservatives, however, have placed the blame for the recent rash of mass shootings not on the proliferation of guns but on the fact that James Holmes and Adam Lanza were allowed to go about their business unfettered, despite their obvious mental illness. The editorial writers at The Wall Street Journal recently wrote that changing the way we treat the mentally ill ''strikes us as a more promising path'' for reducing mass killings than a fight over gun control.
In truth, both are necessary. If conservatives need to face the need for gun regulations -- controls that will make guns less ubiquitous while still staying on the right side of the Second Amendment -- liberals need to acknowledge that untreated mental illness is also an important part of the reason mass killings take place. Yes, it is true, as has been noted in recent weeks, that most mentally ill people don't commit crimes. But it is equally true that anyone who goes into a school with a semiautomatic and kills 20 children and six adults is, by definition, mentally ill.
The state and federal rules around mental illness are built upon a delusion: that the sickest among us should always be in control of their own treatment, and that deinstitutionalization is the more humane route. That is not always the case. Torrey told me that Connecticut's laws are so restrictive in terms of the proof required to get someone committed that Adam Lanza's mother would probably not have been able to get him help even if she had tried.
''Mentally ill street people shame the society that lets them live as they do,'' I wrote toward the end of that article in Texas Monthly. It has been 50 years since deinstitutionalization became the way we dealt with the mentally ill.
How much more proof do we need that it hasn't worked?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MENTAL ILLNESS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (90%); PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); SCHIZOPHRENIA (89%); FIREARMS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); PSYCHIATRY (77%); HOSPITALS (76%); HOMELESSNESS (71%); MENTAL HEALTH PRACTICE (71%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (71%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); WOMEN (69%); PRISONS (67%); HOMELESS SHELTERS (66%); CIVIL RIGHTS (65%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (65%); HURRICANE SANDY (63%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (63%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (60%); HOMICIDE (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (58%) TEXAS, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



947 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Bookseller Sells Stake In Struggling Nook Unit

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER. 
James B. Stewart, whose Common Sense column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
8:35 p.m. | Updated
Barnes & Noble moved to shore up its struggling Nook Media division Friday, agreeing to sell a 5 percent stake to Pearson, a British publishing and education company, for $89.5 million.
In a sign of the headwinds the bookseller is facing, the company said in a regulatory filing that holiday sales were weaker than expected and that its Nook unit would fall short of projections for 2013.
The forecast underscores the difficulties Barnes & Noble is having as it tries to build out its digital business and compete in a crowded market with giant companies like Amazon, Apple and Google. Sales for the first generation of e-readers have been dropping rapidly as consumers shift to tablets that can offer other forms of media like music, games and video. Just this week, Amazon was trumpeting banner sales of its Kindle Fire tablet over the holidays. 
By contrast, worldwide shipments of e-readers fell by 36 percent in 2012, according to a report released this month by IHS iSuppli, a market research firm.
"The market's growth is slowing down," said James L. McQuivey, a media analyst with Forrester Research, referring to e-readers. "The easy customers have been snatched up. And the first customers are the best customers, who buy the most books. In the case of Amazon, you can compensate by selling merchandise to later adopters. Barnes & Noble doesn't have that luxury."
Still, investors seemed to be cheered by the infusion of cash and the tie-in with Pearson's large education and textbook business. That market has trailed trade books in switching to a digital format, and Barnes & Noble could benefit as education books catch up. It could also try to make the Nook tablet a preferred device for educational content.
Shares in the company were up 4.3 percent, closing at $14.97.
Barnes & Noble has tried to keep up with larger competitors by producing its own critically praised tablet and has claimed about 25 percent of the e-book market. But maintaining technological parity is expensive for a company that does not sell a broad range of similar merchandise. The chain has struggled under the burden of investing heavily in the Nook business over the last two years.
As a result, the company has sought partners for its Nook business for financial support. Last spring, Barnes & Noble spun off the Nook division as a separate company and sold a 16.8 percent stake to Microsoft for $300 million. In theory, Microsoft will help promote the Nook through its Windows software, although a significant push has not yet emerged.
Peter Wahlstrom, a senior analyst with Morningstar Equity Research, called the move "a net positive" for Barnes & Noble.
"Digital textbooks are a small, new niche market and a partner like Pearson can only help accelerate that market and that is important, but it is incremental," Mr. Wahlstrom said.
Pearson's investment in Nook is the latest in a series of recent steps the company has taken to focus on digital expansion and distribution of its education content and services. Higher education in the United States is already Pearson's largest single business and in October it acquired EmbanetCompass, a provider of online learning services to North American colleges and universities, for $650 million.
That same month, Pearson agreed to merge its Penguin book publishing business - which does popular as opposed to educational books - with Bertelsmann's Random House division, which further narrowed Pearson's focus on educational books.
In a written statement, Will Ethridge, chief executive of Pearson North America, emphasized the advantages of the investment for the learning community. The deal, he said, "will allow our two companies to work closely together in order to create a more seamless and effective experience for students." He added, "It is another example of our strategy of making our content and services broadly available to students and faculty through a wide range of distribution partners."
Some analysts questioned whether Pearson was getting its money's worth. In addition to its initial 5 percent stake in the Nook business, it has an option to buy another 5 percent. Pearson's investment values the Nook business at $1.8 billion, more than double Barnes & Noble's market value on Friday of $883 million.
Mr. McQuivey acknowledged the potential of the education market but said it had too many variables to be seen as a reliable source of revenue.
"In the long run, if you can make the educational market explode and you get schools to give to tens of millions of children Nooks and put Pearson education content into the Nook, then it would be a long-range strategy for customers," he said.
Instead, he said that the investment might be an effort by Pearson to help Barnes & Noble stay in competition with Amazon.
Ken Doctor, a media analyst with Outsell, a research and consulting firm in Northern California, agreed that propping up a competitor to Amazon might be a motive, but he added that Pearson, with an investment of close to $90 million, was probably looking for more.
"That is why I think it is about preference and maybe really taking the Nook into an education leadership position," he said.
Among the things Pearson might get for its investment, Mr. Doctor said, was preferential placement of its products on Nook home pages or even a say in how the device evolves over the next few years.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A display for the Nook tablet at a Barnes & Noble in New York City. Holiday sales of the device were lower than expected. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOKSTORES (92%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (89%); EQUITY RESEARCH (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); TABLET COMPUTERS (88%); MARKET SIZE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (78%); RETAIL SALES (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (75%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%)

COMPANY: BARNES & NOBLE INC (92%); GOOGLE INC (57%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

TICKER: BKS (NYSE) (92%); GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%); FORR (NASDAQ) (55%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (92%); SIC5942 BOOK STORES (92%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



948 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: Partial Deal With Union Averts Strike At 14 Ports

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
Dockworkers dropped their threat of an imminent strike against ports from Boston to Houston after their union and shipping companies reached a deal on the main point of their dispute, a federal mediator announced on Friday.
The mediator said the two sides had agreed to extend the existing contract by 30 days, to Jan. 28, to give them time to try to reach an agreement on the remaining issues, including what the companies say are antiquated work rules. Late Friday, the two sides issued a new announcement, saying they had agreed to extend the contract an additional week, to Feb. 6, creating a new potential strike deadline.
The partial agreement means that the union, the International Longshoremen's Association, will not carry out its threat to have 14,500 dockworkers go on strike this Sunday at 14 ports along the East and Gulf Coasts. 
In a statement on Friday, George H. Cohen, director of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service, said the two sides had reached an agreement in principle on a particularly contentious issue, known as container royalty payments.
The shipping companies share those payments with union members for each ton of cargo handled.
The union had for months denounced the companies' proposal to freeze those payments for current longshoremen and eliminate them for future employees. No details about the agreement were disclosed.
''What I can report is that the agreement on this important subject represents a major positive step toward achieving an overall collective bargaining agreement,'' Mr. Cohen said. ''While some significant issues remain, I am cautiously optimistic that they can be resolved in the 30-day extension period.''
After the talks broke off on Dec. 18, Mr. Cohen persuaded the two sides to return this week for a last-minute round of bargaining. They have been negotiating on and off since March.
The United States Maritime Alliance, a group of shipping companies and terminal owners, said it paid $211 million in container royalties to the dockworkers last year, averaging $15,500 for each eligible union member.
James A. Capo, the alliance's chairman, said the royalty payments amounted to $10 an hour on top of what he said were already generous wages. ''This issue seems to have dwarfed anything else,'' Mr. Capo said in an interview this week.
But in the days before the strike deadline, Harold J. Daggett, the union's president, said, ''We have repeatedly asked them to leave this item alone.''
The maritime alliance, known as USMX, said the longshoremen earned $124,000 a year on average in wages and benefits, including the royalty payments. Union officials said those figures were exaggerated and put average annual wages at $75,000 before benefits, for what they described as dangerous jobs moving heavy cargo. Under the current contract, most longshoremen earn $32 an hour.
The container payments were created in the 1960s to compensate the longshoremen because many were losing their jobs as seaports embraced automation and the use of standardized, 40-foot-long containers to ship goods.
Largely as a result of those trends, the number of longshoremen employed in the Port of New York and New Jersey, the busiest East Coast port, has dropped to 3,500 from 35,000 in the 1960s.
The shipping companies view the royalty payments as a relic of decades past, intended for longshoremen who worked in the 1960s and 1970s. But the union still sees the payments as a core part of wages and as an important way to share productivity gains with members. The payments come to $4.85 a ton, the union said.
As the strike deadline approached, Mr. Daggett said, ''USMX seems intent on gutting a provision of our master contract that I.L.A. members fought and sacrificed for years to achieve.''
Representatives of the maritime alliance and shipping companies declined to discuss the agreement on the royalty payments or other aspects of the talks, saying that Mr. Cohen had urged the two sides not to talk to the news media.
Matthew Shay, president of the National Retail Federation, applauded the announcement but said a contract extension did not provide the level of certainty that retailers and other industries were looking for to ensure that their goods would continue to pass through the ports. ''We welcome today's news that a contract extension has been reached,'' he said in a statement. ''However, we continue to urge both parties to remain at the negotiating table until a long-term contract agreement is finalized.''
Mr. Shay's federation and more than 100 other business groups wrote to President Obama last week, urging him to invoke his emergency powers under the 1947 Taft-Hartley Act to prevent a strike. Labor experts said Mr. Obama would have been caught between fears that a strike would damage the already-fragile economy and worries that blocking it would anger allies in the labor movement.
In addition to reaching a master contract for the 14 ports, the two sides need to negotiate individual agreements for the ports, many of which involve work rules that the shipping companies are eager to change, calling them inefficient and costly.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ports in Newark and more than a dozen other cities will stay open after longshoremen reached an agreement with shipping companies to avert a coastwide strike. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY HERSHORN/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); STRIKES (90%); PORT STRIKES (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); HARBORS & PORTS (89%); ROYALTIES (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL MEDIATION & CONCILIATION SERVICE (56%); INTERNATIONAL LONGSHOREMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



949 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: TV Where Taking It Too Far Is Never Far Enough

BYLINE: By NEIL GENZLINGER

 BODY:
''Our big dilemma going into the end of the season is whether we may actually be pushing the envelope too far,'' says the protagonist of ''The King of Pain,'' one of 2012's most enjoyable novels for anyone who is a fan of reality television or simply likes monitoring the continuing train wreck that its more tawdry regions have become.
The character, Rick Salter, is talking about a wildly successful reality competition show he created in which contestants undergo various kinds of torture: they're deprived of food one week, branded the next week, and so on. The show becomes a national phenomenon, finding the perverse side of the public taste, until things spin out of control.
Rick, incidentally, is undergoing torture of his own. He spends most of the novel trapped under a gigantic entertainment system in his house, which has toppled, pinning him beneath. We learn about ''The King of Pain'' as he looks back on the show's epic rise and fall while waiting for someone to come along and free him from his metaphorically apt prison. 
The novel is by Seth Kaufman, a Brooklyn writer whose résumé includes time at TVGuide.com and as a reporter for Page Six at The New York Post. And it seems particularly appropriate for 2012, a year in which the reality genre offered some stunning fare.
There were shows and one-shot specials whose mere titles were jolting: ''I Was Impaled,'' on Discovery Fit & Health; ''Wives With Knives,'' on Investigation Discovery; ''My Giant Face Tumor,'' on TLC. There were series that insulted whole groups of people, like ''American Gypsies,'' on the National Geographic Channel, and ''My Big Fat American Gypsy Wedding,'' on TLC; and ''Breaking Amish,'' on TLC, and ''Amish Mafia,'' on Discovery. There was -- again on TLC, easily the leader in this type of sludge -- ''Here Comes Honey Boo Boo.''
Which should lead us all to do some-soul searching here at year's end. Was 2012 a nadir for reality TV? Can the offerings possibly get any worse in 2013? Is ''The King of Pain'' (Sukuma Books), amusing as it is, the last satire that will ever be written about reality television because the genre has become too ludicrous to parody?
Mr. Kaufman, at least, isn't worried that reality-TV reality is going to make reality-TV fiction unwritable.
''At first glance you might think so, but parody and satire are proving quite flexible these days,'' he said in an e-mail interview. '' 'The Daily Show' and The Onion make us laugh when we should be furious or heartbroken. So I think reality shows -- from the petty, freak-show vérité soap-docs like 'Real Housewives' to weirdo-docs of 'Extreme Couponing' and 'I Didn't Know I Was Pregnant' to 'enter-pain-ment' shows like 'Survivor' and 'Killer Karaoke' -- will continue to provide a lot to laugh and wince at.''
And talk about.
''As long as channels can market these shows so they remain in the national conversation at work, on Facebook and in the news, reality TV will continue to be fertile subject matter for anyone interested in modern culture,'' Mr. Kaufman said. ''And that's because the questions posed by reality TV are endless. Are we what we watch? Are these shows abusive? Does that make us voyeurs for watching them? Or is it O.K. because, hey, the contestants are exhibitionists?''
And, he noted, ''There are many world events that make you think it is reality that is un-parody-able, not just reality TV.''
A scan of the most appalling reality shows of the past year may be cause for dismay, but people who work in the genre note another side to the spectrum.
''I think there's a lot of redeeming reality television out there,'' said Jason Carbone, founder of the production company Good Clean Fun and executive producer of shows like the Style Network's ''Tia & Tamera,'' a likable and relatively circumspect show about the adult lives of twins who were stars of the 1990s comedy ''Sister, Sister.'' ''I think that it's probably not as loud as some of the shows.''
Mr. Carbone suggested that, like every type of television, reality TV has cycles, with current trends perhaps influenced by viewers' need to forget the economy. ''They like to feel better about their own lives,'' he said, ''and reality TV offers up a lot of people whose lives are far worse than our own.''
So now we may be at a particularly deplorable point in the pendulum swing. Also driving the seeming epidemic of drivel are the ever-expanding maw of airtime that has to be filled and the need to hook an audience with a quick, easily grasped gimmick, lest it move to another channel.
''We don't have the luxury of a long sell,'' Marc Juris, executive vice president and chief operating officer of truTV, said in a telephone interview. ''Everything's a headline sell. That has pushed a lot of people into the headline without the story.''
A good reality show, he said, is made up of the same elements as a good scripted show: strong characters, compelling story lines. Some producers forget that in the rush to fill the schedule, which is why he tends to demand multiple episodes of a prospective show.
''Anyone can make a good pilot; I want to see two, three, four,'' he said. ''Just to say, 'I have a transgender pawnbroker,' that might be interesting, but do we like this character?''
A fair number of lousy shows will end up on the air nonetheless, just as there are plenty of lousy paintings, pop songs or any other kind of creative work.
''There is always more bad than good,'' Mr. Juris said. ''You need a lot of volume to get anything good.''
Mr. Carbone lamented that shows these days were shaped largely by the profit motive rather than by some individual's vision; every network wants to have a better quarter than the one before. ''I am being continually asked, 'I want bigger, louder, crazier characters,' '' he said. ''I'm not sure how much bigger, louder, crazier we can get.''
Which leads to the ultimate reality-TV question, the one raised by Mr. Kaufman's novel and by the extremes of 2012's programs: Are there places this genre will never go?
''I hope so,'' Mr. Carbone said. ''I don't ever want to see a stoning or a hanging or anything involving death. But if you had told me when I was a little boy that someone could go on a television show and two hours later marry a millionaire, I would have told you you were nuts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A trip to South Africa in ''Tia & Tamera,'' a Style Network series about the adventures of twin sisters. By contrast, there's Jamie Czerniawski, below, in ''Wives With Knives.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH MOSKIN/STYLE) (C1)
How to get some sort of attention, fast, in reality TV: top, the star of ''Here Comes Honey Boo Boo''
above left, Priscilla Kelly in ''My Big Fat American Gypsy Wedding''
and an X-ray of a pencil in a head on ''I Was Impaled.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TLC
 DISCOVERY FIT & HEALTH) (C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REALITY TELEVISION (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (89%); LITERATURE GENRES (89%); WRITERS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



950 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1315 words

HEADLINE: Upgrade or Clean Up?

BYLINE: By DIANE CARDWELL, MATTHEW L. WALD and CHRISTOPHER DREW

 BODY:
After Hurricane Sandy wreaked havoc with power systems in the Northeast, many consumers and public officials complained that the electric utilities had done far too little to protect their equipment from violent storms, which forecasters have warned could strike with increasing frequency.
But from a utility's perspective, the cold hard math is this: it is typically far cheaper for the company, and its customers, to skip the prevention measures and just clean up the mess afterward.
Consolidated Edison, for example, expects to spend as much as $450 million to repair damages to its electric grid in and around New York City. Since utilities are generally allowed to recover their costs through electric rates, customer bills in the region, which typically run about $90 a month for residential customers, would have to rise by almost 3 percent for three years to cover those expenses alone.
Fully stormproofing the system -- sinking power lines, elevating substations and otherwise hardening equipment against damage from torrential winds and widespread flooding -- could easily cost 100 times as much. For Con Ed, carrying out just one measure -- putting all of its electric lines underground -- would cost around $40 billion, the company estimates. To recover those costs, electric rates would probably have to triple for a decade or more, according to Kevin Burke, Con Ed's chief executive. 
Avoiding such large investments is also appealing for another reason: the federal government has sometimes helped bail out utilities after catastrophes, like the Sept. 11 terror attacks and Hurricane Katrina. It may do so again this time in response to pleas from the governors of New York and New Jersey.
Still, there are signs that the devastation caused by Hurricane Sandy is upending the traditional cost-benefit calculations.
The Northeast has been hit by three big storms in just over a year, and forecasters say that so-called 100-year storms are likely to occur more frequently.
Utilities and policy makers can see that ocean surge poses a previously unexpected threat to the power grid.
And there is growing recognition that the true cost of disruptions, in terms of gasoline lines, lost workdays and business sales, and shivering homeowners, is far higher than the simple dollars and cents spent to protect the power system. A recent report from the National Academy of Sciences about the vast 2003 blackout in the Eastern United States determined that the economic cost of that disruption was about 50 times higher than the price of the actual electricity lost, and that didn't take into account deaths or other human consequences.
''We need to think now of not just restoring the grid, but how to make it more survivable,'' said Philip B. Jones, president of the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners, a trade association of state officials. ''I think most commissioners are coming around to that.''
After Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo of New York traveled to Washington to lobby for aid, the Obama administration proposed a broad $60 billion recovery package, including several billion dollars that could be used to protect the utility infrastructure from storms.
''The governor decides if the utilities are deserving and eligible for getting some of that assistance,'' said Kevin Lanahan, director of governmental relations at Con Ed. ''But we've never had discussions on this scale, at least in the Northeast. So we're not certain how that might go.''
Political leaders, who have traditionally pressed to keep consumer rates low, are also talking in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and other states about raising rates -- perhaps gradually over many years -- to pay for improvements.
This year, after Maryland was hit by several storms, the state's governor, Martin O'Malley, even took the unusual step of asking regulators to raise electric rates by a dollar or two a month to allow utilities to do more preventive work. Abigail R. Hopper, his chief energy adviser, compared the process to losing weight. ''It might take you a while to get to your goal, but you start feeling better and better,'' she said.
Ralph A. LaRossa, president and chief operating officer of the Public Service Electric & Gas Company, New Jersey's largest utility with 2.2 million customers, said during hearings in Trenton that what the governor, legislators, utility regulators and the utilities ''need to do is price out what the optimum solution would cost and do a cost-risk analysis -- how much are we willing to pay for minimum risk, how much risk are we willing to live with? -- and then come up with the best solution for the customers.''
He said that the utility's costs for restoring service after Hurricane Sandy could run to $300 million. But utilities in the state are now considering whether to move some 32 electrical substations -- critical relay points where power voltages are reduced for distribution to many homes and businesses -- that sit in 100-year flood zones.
Mr. LaRossa estimated that it would cost $10 million to $15 million to build each new substation and $120 million to build each new switching station, where power is routed to different areas.
Another solution, he said, could be to build greater redundancy into the network. For example, P.S.E.& G. has bought land inland from Newark, where most residents lost power from storm surges during the hurricane, to build a new station that could continue to serve the city if older substations flooded.
Such public discussions of more prevention reflect a major change in thinking. Traditionally, utilities have focused largely on tree-trimming and sandbags to ease storm damage, and politicians and regulatory commissions have discouraged spending to protect against what seemed to be the long odds for catastrophic storms.
''It was pretty widely understood that things like subway tunnels and underground facilities, including substations and junction boxes, were all very vulnerable,'' said M. Granger Morgan, director of the Center for Climate and Energy Decision Making at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. ''The difficulty is it's a low-probability event, and they're operating with pretty limited budgets.''
After a series of storms, including Hurricane Irene, hit New Jersey in 2011, public anger and regulatory oversight in that state focused mainly on poor communication by the utilities and their sluggish efforts to restore power.
Even if many consumers now agree that more prevention is needed, they will undoubtedly differ over how much they can afford to pay for it, and state rate commissions plan to hold hearings to weigh their views.
Paula M. Carmody, the Maryland state official who represents consumers before the public service commission, said the high costs of preventive measures raised fairness questions that until now have been mostly unexamined.
If the electric system's reliability is judged to be ''a societal issue,'' she said, then the political system should consider using tax dollars. High-income people might be happy to pay extra on their bills to reduce the chance of blackouts, or might buy backyard generators, but poorer people may not be able to afford higher bills, she said; if the improvements are paid for through income taxes, the poor are not so burdened and universal access to electricity is maintained.
Under President Obama's proposal to Congress, $2 billion would specifically be devoted to utility projects, while the governors in New Jersey, New York and Connecticut would also be able to apportion parts of more than $15 billion in other grants for that task.
Referring to that aid, which Congress must still approve, Jeanne M. Fox, a Democrat on the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities, said, ''We'll work with what we've got.''
''The more we can get from the federal government, the less our ratepayers will have to pay,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Utility workers in Seaside Heights, N.J., making pole repairs after the destruction caused by Hurricane Sandy. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK WILSON/GETTY IMAGES) (B1)
A staging site for repair crews in Paramus, N.J. The state's utilities are considering costly plans to brace their systems for storms. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Ralph LaRossa of the Public Service Electric & Gas Company said his utility's costs from the storm could reach $300 million. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRIS PEDOTA/THE RECORD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); HURRICANE SANDY (90%); HURRICANES (89%); HURRICANE KATRINA (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); POWER FAILURES (78%); TROPICAL STORMS (78%); UTILITY RATES (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (75%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); FLOODS & FLOODING (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); TERRORISM (67%); EXECUTIVES (65%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: KEVIN BURKE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



951 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Going the Extra Mile to Get a Phrase's Measure

BYLINE: By JENNIFER SCHUESSLER

 BODY:
When people talk about ''the whole nine yards,'' just what are they talking about?
For decades the answer to that question has been the Bigfoot of word origins, chased around wild speculative corners by amateur word freaks, with exasperated lexicographers and debunkers of folk etymologies in hot pursuit.
Does the phrase derive from the length of ammunition belts in World War II aircraft? The contents of a standard concrete mixer? The amount of beer a British naval recruit was obligated to drink? Yardage in football? The length of fabric in a Scottish kilt (or sari, or kimono, or burial shroud)?
Type the phrase into Google and you're likely to get any of these answers, usually backed by nothing more than vaguely remembered conversations with someone's Great-Uncle Ed. But now two researchers using high-powered database search tools have delivered a confident ''none of the above,'' supported by a surprise twist: 
Before we were going the whole nine yards, it turns out, we were only going six.
The recent discovery of several instances of ''the whole six yards'' in newspapers from the 1910s -- four decades before the earliest known references to ''the whole nine yards'' -- opens a new window onto ''the most prominent etymological riddle of our time,'' said Fred Shapiro, a librarian at Yale Law School who announced the findings in next month's issue of The Yale Alumni Magazine.
Other language experts agree about the import of the discovery. ''The phrase is interesting because it's so mysterious,'' said Ben Zimmer, the executive producer of Visual Thesaurus.com and Vocabulary.com, who has written previously on the search for its origin. ''It's been a kind of Holy Grail.''
Like the Holy Grail ''the whole nine yards'' has inspired both armchair mythologizing and years of hard and often fruitless searching through random books and miles of newspaper microfilm. Not that the expression is necessarily all that old. The first scholarly dating, in a 1986 supplement to the Oxford English Dictionary, traced it to 1970. The Historical Dictionary of American Slang then pushed it back to 1967, with a citation from ''The Doom Pussy,'' Elaine Shepard's novel about Air Force pilots in the Vietnam War.
Meanwhile popular obsession with the phrase was growing. Mr. Shapiro, editor of ''The Yale Book of Quotations,'' attributes the interest to William Safire, who was a political and language columnist for The New York Times, who died in 2009. In 1982 he made a public appeal for information about its origins on Larry King's radio program. Mr. Safire went on to write no fewer than nine columns related to the phrase, including one chiding the White House chief of staff Donald T. Regan for referring to ''the whole seven yards.''
''There goes his credibility with me,'' Mr. Safire wrote, before confidently declaring that the expression referred to a fully loaded concrete truck, whose contents are typically measured in cubic yards.
But Mr. Safire was writing before searchable digital databases, which over the past decade have largely supplanted the painstaking work of poring over microfilm and given rise to a culture of ferociously competitive ''antedaters,'' often amateurs, eager to disprove various theories.
The first new break on ''the whole nine yards'' came in 2007, when Sam Clements, a coin dealer and avid word sleuth from Akron, Ohio, discovered it in a 1964 article in The Tucson Daily Citizen about space program slang. By 2009 two other researchers had pushed it back to 1962, when it appeared in a short story about a brush salesman and an article in a car magazine.
Some lexicographers thought the evidence was creeping closer to a World War II-era origin, and possibly some connection to the military, though there was still no hard evidence for the popular ammunition-belt theory. Then, in August, Bonnie Taylor-Blake, a neuroscience researcher in North Carolina who had been searching for variants of the phrase via Google News Archive and Google Books for five years, posted a message on the e-mail list of the American Dialect Society noting a 1956 occurrence in an outdoors magazine called Kentucky Happy Hunting Ground, followed in September by a more startling twist: a 1921 headline from The Spartanburg Herald-Journal in South Carolina reading ''The Whole Six Yards of It.''
The somewhat cryptic headline, atop a detailed account of a baseball game that did not use the phrase, initially caused some head scratching among the society's members. One person asked whether the headline referred to the ball fields, or ''yards,'' of the six teams in the league discussed in the article.
But then Mr. Shapiro, searching in Chronicling America, a Library of Congress database of pre-1923 newspapers, found two 1912 articles in The Mount Vernon Signal in Kentucky promising to ''give'' or ''tell'' the ''whole six yards'' of a story. Ms. Taylor-Blake also found another instance from 1916, in the same paper.
The dating clearly refutes the popular ammunition-belt and concrete-mixer theories, Mr. Shapiro said, while the Kentucky focus suggests a probable ''backwoods provenance.'' As for the meaning of the phrase, he added, the slippage from six yards to nine -- part of the same ''numerical phrase inflation,'' as he puts it, that turned ''Cloud 7'' to ''Cloud 9'' -- suggests it doesn't refer to anything in particular any more than, say, ''the whole shebang'' does.
Jesse Sheidlower, the editor at large of the Oxford English Dictionary, agrees. ''The existence of a six-yard variant shows pretty clearly that this is not about yards of anything,'' he said. ''It's just a random number.''
Mr. Shapiro concedes that he and Ms. Taylor-Blake have found only ''negative evidence,'' and a firm origin story may yet emerge. But neither he nor Mr. Sheidlower is confident that scholarly research will dispel the urban legends that cling to expressions like ''the whole nine yards.''
Mr. Sheidlower points to the persistent belief that Chicago's reputation as ''the Windy City'' springs from its blowhard politicians boasting about the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition and not, as occurrences in newspaper articles dating to the 1860s suggest, its weather.
''People are drawn to colorful etymologies,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''But they are almost always wrong.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Football apparently isn't the basis of the idiom ''the whole nine yards.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY BETTMANN/CORBIS) (C1)
 Six came before nine: a headline on a 1921 baseball article in The Spartanburg Herald-Journal in South Carolina. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPARTANBURG HERALD) (C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR FORCES (76%); ARMED FORCES (75%); BASEBALL (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); WRITERS (71%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (71%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (57%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPARTANBURG, SC, USA (89%) SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (89%) UNITED STATES (89%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



952 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; JEAN S. HARRIS, 1923-2012; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: Headmistress, Jilted Lover, Killer, Then a Force for Good in Jail

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Jean S. Harris, the private-school headmistress whose 1981 trial for the murder of a prominent Scarsdale, N.Y., physician galvanized a nation with its story of vengeance by a woman scorned, died on Sunday at an assisted-living center in New Haven. She was 89.
Her death was confirmed by her son James.
For more than a year -- from her arrest on March 10, 1980, to her sentencing for second-degree murder on March 20, 1981 -- Mrs. Harris's case was front-page news.
The trial provided the fascination of a love triangle involving the cultivated headmistress of an exclusive girls' school, a wealthy cardiologist whose book, ''The Complete Scarsdale Medical Diet,'' had been a best seller, and an attractive younger rival for his affection. If Mrs. Harris was to be believed, it was the story of an attempted suicide by a jilted woman that turned into the unintentional shooting of the man who had rejected her. 
But there was an underlying social debate that drew commentary from writers, sociologists and feminists and antifeminists alike. Mrs. Harris's passionate defenders saw her plight as epitomizing the fragile position of an aging but fiercely independent woman who, because of limited options, was dependent on a man who mistreated her. Her detractors, who were just as ardent, suggested that such reasoning made it seem that it was the physician, Dr. Herman Tarnower, who was on trial.
Mrs. Harris was sentenced to 15 years to life, and spent 12 of those years at the Bedford Hills Correctional Facility in Westchester County, N.Y. But she managed to salvage that seemingly wasted period through a remarkable prison life. She counseled fellow female prisoners on how to take care of their children, and she set up a center where infants born to inmates can spend a year near their mothers. Then, after her release in 1993 following a grant of clemency by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, she set up a foundation that raised millions of dollars for scholarships for children of women in prison in New York State.
She also lectured about her often incongruous experiences with inmates.
''They looked at me as a rich white woman, even though some of the call girls earned six times what I did as a headmistress,'' she told an interviewer.
At the center of the murder case was Jean Struven Harris, a slight, blue-eyed blonde, then 56, who was a product of comfortable suburban homes and a Smith College education. Headstrong, articulate and ambitious, she was the headmistress of the Madeira School, a boarding school for affluent girls on a sprawling wooded campus in Virginia.
At 10:56 on the night of March 10, 1980, the White Plains police received a telephone call from Dr. Tarnower's secluded glass-and-brick house on a 6.8-acre estate in Purchase, N.Y. Lying in an upstairs bedroom dying of four bullet wounds was Dr. Tarnower, the 69-year-old founder of the Scarsdale Medical Group, whose diet book had sold three million copies.
When the police arrived at the driveway, they came across Mrs. Harris, wearing tan slacks and a mink jacket, driving away. She contended that she was going to look for a phone booth to call the police. But officers found a .32-caliber gun in the glove compartment, and a detective later testified that she told him: ''I did it. ... I've been through so much hell with him. He slept with every woman he could.''
Dr. Tarnower and Mrs. Harris, the divorced mother of two grown sons and 13 years his junior, had been lovers for 14 years. But in the years before the shooting, the doctor had begun appearing at dinner parties and taking vacations with his office assistant, Lynne Tryforos, a divorced woman who was then 37. For years Dr. Tarnower, a lifelong bachelor, had refused to marry Mrs. Harris. Now, as a wealthy man, he could dally with the even younger Mrs. Tryforos.
In her eight days on the witness stand, Mrs. Harris was able to describe her betrayal with an arch wit that charmed the courtroom. She recalled how she once discovered a birthday greeting from Mrs. Tryforos to Dr. Tarnower in a small advertisement on the front page of The New York Times, and how she responded: ''Herman, why don't you use the Goodyear blimp next time? I think it's available.''
She testified that by March 1980, she had decided to commit suicide and had bought the revolver. She drove from Virginia to Dr. Tarnower's place, she said, so she could have a few quiet moments with him before she shot herself ''at the side of the pond where there were daffodils in the spring.''
When she went upstairs, she testified, she found him in his pajamas asleep in his bedroom. She noticed Mrs. Tryforos's negligee, hair curlers and jewelry and fell into a rage, she said, deciding to shoot herself right there.
When she drew the revolver out of her pocketbook, she testified, Dr. Tarnower tried to stop her by pushing her hand down, but the gun fired. They struggled again, and the gun went off a second time.
Mrs. Harris, however, could not account for two of the bullets. On Feb. 24, 1981, after eight days of deliberation, the jury of four men and eight women decided that she had murdered the doctor.
The trial drew more than 100 reporters from around the country. The writer Shana Alexander and the critic Diana Trilling both wrote popular books about Mrs. Harris's experience. Mrs. Trilling compared Mrs. Harris to Anna Karenina and Emma Bovary; Mrs. Harris, she said, was ''material asking to be written but with no one to write her.'' Some feminists rationalized Mrs. Harris's action as legitimate revenge, although Betty Friedan, describing Mrs. Harris as a ''pathetic masochist,'' denied that there were any feminist issues involved in the trial.
Mrs. Harris took the guilty verdict calmly, but at her sentencing a month later, she was trembling with defiance.
''I did not murder Dr. Tarnower; I loved him very much,'' she told the judge. ''No one in the world feels his loss more than I do. I'm not guilty.''
At Bedford Hills, she held various jobs. She organized the prison library, tutored inmates for the state's high school equivalency examinations and served as a teacher's aide in the prison's nursery.
''I was lucky that I could find something useful to do,'' she told The Times in a 1993 interview. ''I didn't twiddle my thumbs. Really, I got up every morning and went to school and taught. I know it was useful, and I was lucky to have that job.''
She wrote an article for New York magazine on prison conditions, describing a humiliating search of her body by a guard. In 1986, she wrote ''Stranger in Two Worlds,'' offering her account of the Tarnower relationship as well as a chronicle of prison life.
Almost 70 years old when she got out in 1993, she tried to live out of the limelight, despite the occasional made-for-TV movie or book about the case (Ellen Burstyn played Mrs. Harris in a 1981 movie, and Annette Bening played her in 2005). She devoted herself to gardening outside her cabin on the Connecticut River in New Hampshire, writing and taking walks with her golden retriever, Lainey, who was named after a nun who directed the prison's children center.
Jean Witte Struven was born in Chicago on April 27, 1923, and grew up in the fashionable Cleveland suburbs of Cleveland Heights and Shaker Heights. Her father, Albert Struven, was a civil engineer who became vice president of a construction company that built oil refineries and steel plants around the world. She was educated at the Cleveland area's leading private school and majored in economics at Smith College. She was elected to Phi Beta Kappa and graduated magna cum laude in 1945. She went on to receive a master's in education at Wayne State University.
Soon after leaving Smith, she married James Harris, the son of a middle-level chemicals executive from Detroit. She once told an interviewer that she had agreed to marry him largely to defy her father, who did not like him.
The couple settled in Grosse Pointe, Mich., and Mrs. Harris took a job teaching at a private school where some members of the Ford family sent their children. She gained a measure of social prestige, yet Mr. Harris's career in a carburetor company languished. Their marriage foundered, and in 1964, she filed for divorce. Mr. Harris died in 1977.
Besides her son James, she is survived by another son, David; a sister, Mary Lynch; a brother, Robert Struven; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
Hoping to put her sons through college, she took a higher-paying job as the director of the middle school of the Springside School, a girls' academy in Philadelphia. It was in that position that she met Dr. Tarnower at a dinner party. Both had made trips to the Soviet Union in recent years, and they compared notes.
Dr. Tarnower, the son of a hat manufacturer, was self-assured, urbane and witty. He was a hunter and a sports fisherman, and on his travels he collected Buddhas. He wooed her with roses and dances at the Pierre Hotel in Manhattan. In the first year of their courtship, he gave her an engagement ring and proposed marriage. But Mrs. Harris hesitated, and soon he told her that he could not go through with the marriage.
But the romance continued. Early in 1972, Mrs. Harris became the headmistress of the Thomas School in Rowayton, Conn., and bought a house in Mahopac, N.Y., a 45-minute drive from Dr. Tarnower's house. The Thomas School merged with another school in 1975, and a year and a half later the position at the Madeira School opened up.
The geographic distance between them appeared to place strains on their relationship. Dr. Tarnower began dating Mrs. Tryforos while continuing with Mrs. Harris. In her three years at the Madeira School, Mrs. Harris was by most accounts a capable administrator and a strict disciplinarian who, among other actions, barred students from the bars in the Georgetown section of Washington. Shortly before the murder, her position at the school was imperiled by what some thought was her imprudence in suspending four student leaders after marijuana seeds and pipes were found in their dormitory.
Mrs. Harris grew weary of such conflict, and a letter of resignation was among the notes she wrote shortly before leaving for Dr. Tarnower's house.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jean S. Harris, left, with one of her lawyers, Bonnie Steingart, during her murder trial in 1981. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
Jean S. Harris in custody the day after she shot Dr. Herman Tarnower, above, a cardiologist in suburban New York. She was in prison for 12 years. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JOYCE DOPKEEN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Mrs. Harris in 1993, the year she was released from prison. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS) (D8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); MURDER (90%); DEATHS (90%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (90%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (90%); SENTENCING (89%); CHILDREN (89%); PRISONS (89%); BOARDING SCHOOLS (78%); WRITERS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ARRESTS (76%); JAIL SENTENCING (76%); CARDIOLOGY (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (72%); ASSISTED LIVING SERVICES (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (71%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); SUBURBS (60%); SUICIDE (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2013



953 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 222 words

HEADLINE: Dwindling Adoptions

BYLINE: By CHARLES M. BLOW

 BODY:
When Russia's president, Vladimir Putin, signed a law on Friday banning the adoption of Russian children by Americans, it brought the issue of international adoptions by United States citizens back into the spotlight. 
As it turns out, the number of international adoptions by Americans has been falling for years. American adoptions from Russia in particular fell from a high of nearly 6,000 children in 2004 to fewer than 1,000 in 2011.
As The Associated Press pointed out in May, ''the number of international adoptions has fallen to its lowest point in 15 years, a steep decline attributed largely to crackdowns against baby-selling, a sputtering world economy and efforts by countries to place more children with domestic families.''
But as adoptions from some traditional sources have plummeted, those from less-traditional sources have surged. Adoptions of Ethiopian children were nearly nonexistent until the mid-2000s, when, suddenly, the number began to jump. In 2010, there were about 2,500 Ethiopian children adopted by American families. (Those numbers fell some in 2011.)
That may well be the Zahara Jolie-Pitt effect. Angelina Jolie adopted 6-month-old Zahara from Ethiopia in 2005. Jolie's partner, Brad Pitt, soon joined in the adoption.
This chart of adoption trends by children's country of origin tells the bigger tale.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Incoming Orphans: Some major countries of origin of immigrant orphans to the United States.
 The chart uses State Department data on immigrant visas issued to orphans as a proxy for adoption. Final adoption data may vary slightly. (Source: Bureau of Consular Affairs, U.S. Department of State) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOPTION (90%); FAMILY (90%); ADOPTION LAW (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%)

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF STATE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF STATE BUREAU OF CONSULAR AFFAIRS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%)

PERSON: ANGELINA JOLIE (73%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (73%); BRAD PITT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); ETHIOPIA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



954 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE CAUCUS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: Democrats Quick to Favor Congressman's Senate Bid

BYLINE: By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE

 BODY:
The Democratic ranks are closing behind Representative Edward J. Markey of Massachusetts in the race to succeed Senator John Kerry, who hopes to become secretary of state.
The race is shaping up with unusual speed, considering that Mr. Kerry has not yet vacated the seat, and Gov. Deval Patrick of Massachusetts has yet to set a date for a special election. 
But several big guns in the Democratic Party began on Friday to line up behind Mr. Markey, who declared his candidacy on Thursday in a race that was expected to be crowded with high-profile possibilities.
The first to issue a statement was Mr. Kerry.
"While I began last week to formally step out of politics and it's very important that I respect the apolitical nature of the post I hope to soon occupy, as Massachusetts' senior senator today and as a colleague of Ed Markey's for 28 years, I'm excited to learn of and support his decision to run for the United States Senate,'' the statement said.
It avoided the word "endorse" but was clearly intended to send a signal that Mr. Kerry was supporting Mr. Markey.
Victoria Reggie Kennedy, the widow of Senator Edward M. Kennedy, then endorsed Mr. Markey, saying in a statement, "He knows how to get things done."
Mrs. Kennedy is said to be interested in being appointed interim senator until the winner of the special election is declared, but she did not mention it in her statement.
A statement from Senator Michael Bennet, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, also favored Mr. Markey.
"At a time when the country needs real leadership that looks out for the middle class, Ed Markey always remembers where he came from and will continue the hard work needed to turn our economy around," Mr. Bennet wrote.
Mr. Markey, 66, is the dean of the Massachusetts Congressional delegation and was first elected to the House in 1976. The other most likely candidates are also members of Congress: Stephen Lynch and Michael Capuano.
The Democrats appear to be trying to head off a potentially bruising primary to save their money for the special election. Their most likely Republican opponent is Massachusetts's other outgoing senator, Scott Brown.
Mr. Brown, who lost his seat last month to Elizabeth Warren, has not said yet whether he intends to run again this time. But he is presumed to be a formidable candidate; he is certainly the best known in the field, now that several high-profile Democrats have said they are not interested. They include Edward M. Kennedy Jr., the son of the senator, and Ben Affleck, the actor.
Representative Niki Tsongas, the widow of another senator, has also said that she will not run. So has Martha Coakley, the state attorney general, who lost a special election to Mr. Brown in 2010.
Mr. Markey, the son of a milkman, has $3 million in his campaign account. He ranks ninth in seniority in the House.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edward J. Markey, who seeks the Senate seat likely to soon be vacated by John Kerry, has attracted some influential support. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (50%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); EDWARD J MARKEY (92%); TED KENNEDY (89%); ELIZABETH WARREN (79%); SCOTT BROWN (78%); MICHAEL BENNET (78%); MARTHA COAKLEY (58%); STEPHEN F LYNCH (58%); MICHAEL E CAPUANO (58%); NIKI TSONGAS (58%); DEVAL PATRICK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



955 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; WEALTH MATTERS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1287 words

HEADLINE: Past Turmoil Leaves a Lasting Impression on Today's Investors

BYLINE: By PAUL SULLIVAN

 BODY:
IF there was one word that applied to investing this year, it was uncertainty.
But there were different kinds of uncertainty. To paraphrase Donald Rumsfeld, the former defense secretary, this year there were uncertain uncertainties and certain uncertainties. Some of the uncertain uncertainties were the European debt crisis, China's handling of its stalled growth and leadership transition, and the presidential election in the United States.
The fiscal-cliff negotiations were a certain uncertainty. No one I spoke to throughout the year thought the talks would be concluded in a tidy fashion with weeks to spare, and they were certainly right.
''There has been a lot to worry about this year,'' said Gregg Fisher, president and chief investment officer of Gerstein Fisher, a wealth management firm in New York. ''The other problem with uncertainty is we're worried about what other people are worried about. This creates a huge amount of uncertainty without a path.'' 
Despite the worry, stocks in the United States had a good year, with the Standard & Poor's 500 up 11.5 percent even with the declines of the last week. More than that, Neeti Bhalla, head of tactical asset allocation at Goldman Sachs private wealth management, pointed out that this was the first year since 2009 in which the S. &P. did not drop below its starting point for the year, 1,258.
''That was important because at no point this year did people feel a negative return in their equity portfolio,'' Ms. Bhalla said. ''You had pullbacks this year, but you never got to a negative experience.''
So what did investors do in a year that was full of uncertainty yet actually quite strong in terms of returns? The opposite of what they should have done: measurements of cash flows showed that investors took money out of equity funds while continuing to put money into fixed income, even though financial advisers were concerned that a slight drop in the price of bonds like Treasuries could quickly result in investors losing money.
''They were looking for stability in the fixed-income markets,'' said Barbara Reinhard, chief investment strategist for Credit Suisse Private Bank. ''The big thing is investors held onto the recent past and couldn't get out of their own way.''
Of course, even the professionals would not fault the average investor for being scared by so much uncertainty. Chris Blum, global head of equities at J. P. Morgan Private Bank, said he liked to show clients a series of charts of stock returns over many decades. The trend is up despite periods of declines. But he knows that's not enough to persuade them.
''I can show this kind of data in front of an individual 10 times until Sunday, but the reality is you're not getting in touch with people who are scared,'' he said. ''You need to acknowledge how they feel. You can't say markets are panicking, go buy.''
So how should investors have looked at this year? Much of the advice came down to two themes: the world won't end, and politicians will eventually come up with a fiscal agreement. Still, advisers acknowledged that was deeply unsatisfying to clients. (I'd wager it may not have been worth the management fees that investors pay.)
Karen Wimbish, director of retail retirement at Wells Fargo, said she talked to investors about having three sources of income -- guaranteed, stable and a pot of money that can grow over time. But she said the simplest solution for contentment in uncertain times was having a set plan.
''You don't need $1 million to sit down and make a plan,'' Ms. Wimbish said. ''Retirement is a long-term proposition. If I'm in it for the long term and I'm saving, some years it is going to be up, some years it is going to be down. But over time, I'm going to be fine.''
Mr. Blum said he used data to try to get clients to the same place: while the year may have been bumpy, it was just one year among many.
''I comb the data on a chart to take them through what they're feeling,'' he said. ''I ask them what concerns you about the fiscal cliff or what keeps you from deploying capital. I related those issues to what happens in risk assets and how those concerns get factored into the prices. But it's not a slam dunk.''
Mr. Fisher said he tried to show clients that markets generally do a good job of factoring in risk.
''The return we expect to earn on stocks is higher when the risk we perceive is higher and lower when the risk we perceive is lower,'' he said. ''This is simple, but investors always seem to do the wrong thing.''
As examples, he said, Europe's economic problems seemed unsolvable in the first and second quarters, and there was speculation that Greece would leave the euro. Large companies in Europe were paying significantly more to borrow money than their counterparts in the United States. Mr. Fisher said this was a great investing opportunity that many people missed because of their concern over political and macroeconomic matters.
''The cost of capital for two similar businesses in developed countries shouldn't be too different over time,'' he said. ''There are going to be periods of time when one country is different from another, but over time they converge. Returns on big company stocks have been almost identical over the past 40 years.''
Ms. Bhalla said that one of the big problems was just how strong the pull of the recent past is on investors. And since the past five years have not been great, investors may be caught in a feedback loop of fear.
''We think the last five years should not be extrapolated into the next five years,'' she said. ''You want to think where is change happening and is that risk asset accurately priced.''
She said investors needed to move away from worrying about whether they will get their money back and start thinking about whether they will make money.
''This year has been one of the most critical in shaking up beliefs about asset pricing,'' she said. ''The most important difference from 2012 to 2010 and 2011 is that expectations have been set lower. People have been surprised by the upside.''
She added, ''What we find is people are a little more open now to discussing the balance of risk.''
This may seem difficult to believe given the stalled negotiations on the fiscal cliff. But while the lack of an agreement may be bad for markets in the short term, the only certainty for next year is something will happen that no one planned for.
''This illusion that everything is O.K. is always an illusion,'' Mr. Fisher said. ''Life is full of uncertainty.''
Shlomo Benartzi, a business professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, and the chief behavioral economist at Allianz Global Investors' Center for Behavioral Finance, said that investors' confidence had been shaken by volatility in the markets and so much uncertainty around policy decisions.
''I don't think we've had so many times when markets are so volatile and everything is going up,'' he said. ''It would be interesting to ask people what percentage think the market went up this year versus down. I think a lot of people would think the market went down because they confuse the volatility and the bad news.''
John Verfurth, a partner at VWG Wealth Management, a division of HighTower Advisers, said investors had spent the past year ''completely frozen because of the uncertainty.'' But he has been trying to talk to his clients about the positive effects of uncertainty. If the country goes over the fiscal cliff and the equity markets go down, the firm will buy more stocks for clients at lower prices.
Still, getting his clients to let go of their fears is more difficult.
''No one believes we're at the beginning of the next 10- to 15-year cycle,'' he said. ''We're trying to be balanced. We're trying to take steps.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shlomo Benartzi, a professor at U.C.L.A., said that investors' confidence had been shaken by unpredictable markets and policy decisions. Despite the uncertainty, returns on United States stocks were pretty strong this year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); BONDS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (77%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (77%); CASH FLOW (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ELECTIONS (71%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (66%); DEBT CRISIS (57%); EURO CRISIS (57%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (56%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (LOS ANGELES) (59%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); CSGN (SWX) (56%); CS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2012



956 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bats)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012

SECTION: SPORTS; baseball

LENGTH: 401 words

HEADLINE: Ratings for Citi Field Bonds Lowered

BYLINE: KEN BELSON


HIGHLIGHT: Standard &#038; Poor's lowered its rating on the almost $700 million in bonds issued to finance Citi Field, and it said the outlook for them remains negative. 

 BODY:
With one glaring exception, the Mets appear to be in cost-cutting mode this winter. Yes, David Wright agreed to an eight-year, $138 million contract this month. 
But the Mets traded their ace, R.A. Dickey, over what amounted to a few million dollars, and unloaded Jason Bay and a host of other underperforming players. The Mets are the only team that had not signed a major league free agent this off-season.
Sandy Alderson, the team's general manager, has said the Mets are simply being prudent after years of signing high-priced flops. But he has also said the Mets do not have unlimited funds, something most fans have long suspected even after the team's owners settled their legal standoff with the trustee representing the victims of the Bernard L. Madoff Ponzi scheme.
Others have come to the same conclusion. On Dec. 21, Standard & Poor's lowered its rating on the almost $700 million in bonds issued to finance Citi Field, and it said the outlook for them remains negative. The bonds are now rated BB, from BB+. That's two notches below investment grade, junk bonds in the parlance of the debt market.
Jodi Hecht, an analyst at Standard & Poor's, cited "cash flow volatility," noting that "a large portion" of the money pledged to pay off the bonds is "game-day revenue," which includes sales of club-seat tickets, concessions and parking. How the Mets play will affect the prospects for this revenue, she said. Standard & Poor's "may lower the rating if cash flows continue to decline due to a combination of poor team performance, slow economic recovery, overcapacity in the New York region," she added.
Attendance has fallen three straight seasons, and the Mets have finished in fourth place four consecutive years.
Despite the dim prospects for the team in 2013, the Mets may get a boost in ticket sales if fans buy season-ticket packages as a way to secure tickets to the All-Star Game, which will be played at Citi Field in July.
The downgrade by Standard & Poor's is unlikely to affect the Mets much in the short term unless they issue new debt. The team currently makes semi-annual bond payments of $22 million using revenue from sales of suites, club seats, concessions and other items.

        
R. A. Dickey Climbs Mountains; the Mets Dig Holes
        
Mets Post Third Consecutive Decline in Attendance
        
The Official Attendance Can Become Empty of Meaning
        
S.&.P. Outlook on Citi Field Bonds Sours
        
Dickey? Never Heard of Him

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BOND ISSUES (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); CASH FLOW (87%); BOND MARKETS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (76%); SPORTS REVENUES (74%); TICKET SALES (74%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); CORPORATE DEBT (72%); PONZI SCHEMES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%) Baseball; Citi Field (NYC); Credit Ratings and Credit Rating Agencies; New York Mets; Standard & Poor's Corp

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%) Citi Field (NYC); New York Mets; Standard & Poor's Corp

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

PERSON: BERNARD MADOFF (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2013



957 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: December 29, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 885 words

HEADLINE: Coal Giant Drops Claim That it is 'the Global Leader in Clean Energy Solutions'

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A giant coal company drops its Web claim that it is the global leader in clean energy. 

 BODY:
Peabody Energy, the biggest private-sector coal company in the world, has removed the claim that it is "the global leader in clean energy solutions" from its home page. The two images below show the shift (sometime between Dec. 19 and Dec. 29), with the claim now reading that the company is "the global leader in clean coal solutions":
I'd questioned that clean-energy assertion in a post a few days ago. 
As for the new "clean coal" claims, I encourage you to revisit the statement from my initial post by Vic Svec, a senior vice president at Peabody, and then read what David Hawkins of the Natural Resources Defense Council posted in a comment. Both are reproduced here: 
Vic Svec:
We note on the front page of our website that Peabody Energy is the world's largest private-sector coal company and a global leader in sustainable mining and clean coal solutions. One of the great untold environmental stories is the enormous progress in clean energy that has occurred in recent decades.
We forget to celebrate the enormous progress that has been made in clean coal in recent decades. The core U.S. coal statistic is this: criteria emissions from coal use in the U.S. have declined a stunning 87% since 1970, during a time when coal use has nearly tripled. "Smokestacks" for coal plants have now become steam stacks, thanks to wet and dry ESPs, baghouses, low-NOx burners, SCRs, activated carbon injection and a host of other technologies.
In addition, using coal in large centralized plants dramatically reduces the burning of fuel wood and waste that causes enormous indoor air pollution in developing nations. And we know that low-cost coal-fueled electricity has helped to bring about an explosion of electrotechnologies: your coal-fueled mail delivery - e-mail - has dramatically lower emissions than traditional mail.
New supercritical coal plants represent another leap forward. Consider the Prairie State Energy Campus, with more than $1 billion in clean coal technologies and criteria emissions some 80% below the existing coal fleet along with a carbon dioxide emission rate some 40% below existing plants. Prairie State is also a great example of green jobs, with thousands of workers involved in construction of the large coal plant. And Prairie State has a cost of fuel that less than one-third that of even currently suppressed U.S. natural gas prices.
Ironically, U.S. environmentalists have been a major reason more supercritical coal plants haven't been used in the United States, even taking credit for killing state-of-the-art new coal construction in the past decade. China is building far more such plants because they recognize that coal is essential to power a healthy economy and the new generation of coal plants offer great environmental advantage. Also, Peabody is proud to be the only non-Chinese partner in GreenGen, which just started up in Tianjin, China, as a major coal gasification plant that will ultimately reuse carbon dioxide for enhanced oil recovery.
Coal has been the fastest growing fuel in the world for the past decade, and has been projected to pass oil as the world's largest energy source next year. Its abundance and low-cost profile make coal essential for powering the world's best economies and helping to move hundreds of millions of people to cities and to the middle class. Those are enormous societal benefits, and technology can ensure that his be done in an environmentally friendly way.
David Hawkins:
Vic's message is rife with omissions and evasions. His complaint about the untold story of improved emissions from coal plants is ironic, given the parts he chooses to leave untold: that coal producers and coal plant operators fought every single one of the policies that produced these gains; that they continue to fight the policies that could produce similar gains for carbon dioxide if adopted; and that Peabody is truly a world leader in funding the campaigns to block meaningful action against global warming pollution.
Next, he switches the subject from coal to electricity. No environmentalists I know are opposed to electrification. To conflate the benefits of electricity with the need to use coal as it is used today, is deeply dishonest.
Building new supercritical coal plants is a climate protection strategy only in Orwell's world. Protecting the climate means curbing cumulative emissions. New supercritical coal plants are a massive commitment to increased cumulative emissions. There is no irony in the efforts to block these plants and to steer investments to cleaner forms of electricity resources.
If Peabody were serious about deployment of CCS [ carbon dioxide capture and sequestration ] it would have supported the Waxman-Markey bill and companion bills in the Senate. Those bills would have made huge subsidies available for CCS and would have set standards requiring its use on the new coal plants that Peabody would like to see built. CCS is not the best tool we have to protect the climate but Vic's claim that Peabody is a serious promoter of the technology is as misleading as the rest of his message.

        
A Coal Sales Ticker Next to a 'Clean Energy' Claim?
        
Energy Agency Sees Global Coal Boom Unabated, Europe's Binge Temporary
        
Coal Boom Unabated in Asia
        
Behind China's Shift on Energy and Growth
        
The Power Gap Behind India's Mass Blackouts

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); CLEAN COAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (90%); WEB SITES (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (78%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AIR POLLUTION (73%); COMBUSTION TECHNOLOGIES (73%); SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT (72%); GREENHOUSE GASES (70%); INDOOR AIR QUALITY (63%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (62%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%) Air Pollution; Coal; Mines and Mining; Peabody Energy Corporation; business; energy; environmental policy; industry; pollution

COMPANY: PEABODY ENERGY CORP (96%)

ORGANIZATION: NATURAL RESOURCES DEFENSE COUNCIL (56%)

TICKER: BTU (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS213113 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR COAL MINING (96%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (96%); NAICS212111 BITUMINOUS COAL & LIGNITE SURFACE MINING (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2013



958 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths SUTTON, FRANCIS X.

 BODY:
SUTTON--Francis X.,a noted social scientist and foundation official, Francis X. Sutton died on December 18th, 2012. Born in Oneida, PA, on July 7, 1917, he was raised in Newtown, PA, and educated at Temple University (1938), Princeton (1940), and Harvard (1940, and PhD 1950), where he was a Junior fellow in the Society of Fellows. He taught at Harvard, where he also met his wife, the psychologist, Ruth Jacqueline Young, who predeceased him in 2002. He had a long career with the Ford Foundation. Following his retirement, he served as chairman of the Social Science Research Council and a consultant to the Rockefeller Foundation, the U.S. Agency for International Development, and the World Bank. He also was acting director of the Rockefeller Study and Conference Center in Bellagio, Italy, and a consultant to the Aga Khan. He is the author of The American Business Creed (1956). During the War he was a Captain in the U.S. Army Corps. He was also a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Century Association. He was an accomplished pianist and avid dancer. He is survived by a sister, Alice Ryan, and leaves four children, Peter, Sean, Philip and Elizabeth, as well as five grandchildren, Page and Spencer, Gordon and Emily, and Hannah. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); PSYCHOLOGY (73%); RELIGION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (71%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ARMIES (67%); GRANDCHILDREN (65%)

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (58%); SOCIAL SCIENCE RESEARCH COUNCIL (56%); US AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (56%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



959 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 12015 words

HEADLINE: 2012: A Look Back, and Beyond

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Every day until Dec. 31, reporters and editors from The New York Times will recall the people, teams and moments that made the last year memorable, and in some cases look ahead to 2013.
* * *
A Free Fall That Has Yet to Reach Rock Bottom
By Juliet Macur
This year began so well for Lance Armstrong.
A month into 2012, after nearly two years of his wondering and worrying, federal prosecutors said they were no longer investigating Armstrong for possible doping-related crimes, including fraud, money laundering and drug trafficking. The United States attorney leading the inquiry had dismissed the case.
For Armstrong, a weight had been lifted. 
''It is the right decision, and I commend them for reaching it,'' he said in a statement that day, Feb. 3. ''I look forward to continuing my life as a father, a competitor, and an advocate in the fight against cancer without this distraction.''
But in fact, his year was not on an upswing. Quite the opposite. Armstrong was about to have one of the most precipitous, unceremonious downfalls in the history of sports.
By the end of October, he was stripped of his record seven Tour de France titles and was barred for life from competing in Olympic sports. His sponsors, even the longtime supporters Nike and Oakley, abandoned him. He closed out 2012 pegged as a liar and a cheat who had to step down from his own cancer charity, Livestrong, to keep it from drowning alongside him.
All that misfortune came at the hands of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which did not back down from its fight with Armstrong, even when the federal criminal investigation fell apart.
In June, the agency announced that it had opened a doping case against Armstrong, who later chose not to fight the charges. But it was too late for him to save his reputation as a cancer-surviving hero to millions.
By mid-October, the agency had made public a 202-page report that said Armstrong was at the heart of the most sophisticated, well-organized doping program in sports. In that report, 11 of his former teammates said they had doped and that doping on Armstrong's teams was widespread and expected if riders wanted to succeed at the sport's highest level.
Riders who had been Armstrong's closest friends and confidants had pointed their fingers at him. And while his lawyers called the report ''a one-sided hatchet job,'' Armstrong did something many did not expect: he did not fight back.
Within weeks, he retreated from his hometown, Austin, Tex., to Hawaii, away from the stares and the vocal criticisms. There, he rode out the initial tumult.
Now back in Austin, Armstrong awaits a new year. It could not be worse than the last. Yet it is likely to be rocky.
The Department of Justice is still considering joining a federal whistle-blower case filed by Floyd Landis, one of Armstrong's former teammates. Landis has claimed Armstrong and management of the United States Postal Service team defrauded the government by using taxpayer dollars to finance the squad's doping program.
Also, a Dallas-based insurance company that awarded Armstrong bonuses for winning several Tours is looking for its money back. Armstrong owes it at least $7.5 million, a lawyer for the company said.
What Armstrong, a father of five, will do next is anybody's guess. One thing that is not likely on his to-do list to ring in the new year: celebrate his good fortune.
* * *
For U.S. Track Team, Strides in Right Direction
By Tom Connelly
You know your sport is in ratings trouble when the stunning performances of your current Olympians in London finish a distant second to the extracurricular exploits of a stunning former Olympian in Las Vegas. Or when its most recognizable face belongs not to the chiseled Mr. Bolt but to the whittled Mr. Kardashian.
Or maybe not.
For failures organic and self-inflicted, track and field in the United States long ago ceded the first tier of the sporting hierarchy to the broadcast friendly Big Three. It now ricochets like a wayward atom in the vast chasm between the poles of women's gymnastics and curling. Its popularity is roughly equivalent to that of domestic soccer, which bid farewell to Beckham this year and awaits Messi in 2025, and the dysfunction that is professional boxing, which will never again care about universal popularity as long as there is a pay-per-view cash cow to milk.
Still, because a dominant Olympic track performance that, for those scoring at home, assured that the United States would win the overall medal count, there is hope for a higher national profile, if indeed that is even what the sport's genuinely quirky aficionados truly seek.
Credit especially goes to the American milers, specifically the men. Their event -- together with the sport's metric equivalent, the 1,500 -- is track's marquee attraction. The 100 gives us the World's Fastest Human, but it is short and brutish and pales aesthetically against the other pure sprints: the 200 and its powerful and stirring turn, and the 400 and its long-striding elegance on the back straight. The 800 -- apologies to the exquisite David Rudisha -- is an underloved hybrid for those whose hamstrings don't twitch quite fast enough and hearts don't beat quite slow enough. But the mile/1,500 is close to perfect, requiring a balance of speed and strength and tactics, short enough to hold us rapt but not so long that we can return from a bathroom break and expect to pick up pretty much where we left off.
There have always been great American milers. Glenn Cunningham was the best of the 1930s. Wes Santee, Jim Ryun, Marty Liquori, Steve Scott, the naturalized citizen Bernard Lagat and others could always be counted among the global elite. But the mile has rarely been dominated by Americans.
The last time the United States won Olympic gold in the 1,500 was 1908. And until Leo Manzano finished second in London, Ryun's silver in 1968 was the last medal taken by an American. Now, though, Manzano's astonishing kick to silver and the almost-third-place finish by Matthew Centrowitz, four months after knee surgery, teases at an American renaissance heading into the summer's world championships in Moscow. Maybe it won't be a match for the 1980s British troika of Sebastian Coe, Steve Cram and Steve Ovett, but throw in Andrew Wheating -- and, who knows, even a refocused Alan Webb -- and there is the potential for an interesting season ahead for those who care to pay attention.
* * *
Going About the Business of Creating Magic
By Steve Reddicliffe
Nothing seemed to faze the Loyola (Maryland) men's lacrosse team last season, not even being left out of the preseason top 20.
Coming off an 8-5 season in 2011, the senior co-captain Scott Ratliff said: ''We knew there probably wouldn't be a whole bunch of hype behind us going into last year. We mentioned it, we talked about it one day, and then we kind of just went about our business.''
Nobody went too crazy after Loyola decisively beat Duke, a preseason No. 2, in early March, although midfielder Davis Butts, also a senior co-captain, said, ''I can tell you that definitely gave us a little boost for the rest of the season.''
And nobody stewed too much when Loyola, after starting the season 12-0, lost to its Baltimore rival, Johns Hopkins, in overtime in late April.
''When we set goals, it was to win the conference championship and then go on to win the national championship, so we knew that we had all those goals still in front of us,'' Ratliff said.
Loyola did win the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference title, defeating Denver, a preseason top-five team, for the second time in a month in the semifinal and Fairfield in the final. And in the N.C.A.A. tournament, the Greyhounds beat Canisius, Denver again (by one goal for the second straight time), and Notre Dame before facing Maryland in the championship game.
The Terrapins had been there the previous year, losing to Virginia by two goals, but Loyola was pretty cool about that game, too.
''We had the slogan, 'The best team will win,' '' Ratliff said, ''and we felt that would be us, and it worked out.''
Loyola won, 9-3, for the program's first N.C.A.A. Division I title; the margin was comfortable enough that Coach Charley Toomey changed his goalie and got a bunch of players minutes in a championship game. Toomey himself had been the goalie for Loyola in a national title game in 1990, losing by 21-9 to Syracuse. He said he did not pass along any lessons from that experience.
''This is their time,'' Toomey said. ''We stuck to what we know, the extra preparation, the scouting reports, being smart with your downtime. And really just enjoying the moment.
''You can coach your whole life to have a special team of guys like this and from senior leadership to freshman buy-in, to the on- and off-the-field success that our kids had, that is something I will hold onto for a long time,'' he said.
Loyola's first game of 2013 is Feb. 16 against Delaware.
''It's a completely different team,'' Toomey said of the current Greyhounds. His tone was matter-of-fact, with perhaps a hint of urgency, but nothing over the top. It was an attitude that sounded familiar.
* * *
U.S. Women's Soccer, Between Dramas
By Jay Schreiber
On Memorial Day weekend, the United States women's soccer team played a sweet lullaby of a game on the banks of the Delaware River outside Philadelphia. As a sunny afternoon eased into dusk, the Americans, in a warm-up for what lay ahead, beat China, 4-1, before a celebratory crowd of nearly 19,000 that filled every seat at PPL Park.
Afterward, half the crowd lingered in the stands and all of the American players remained on the field. The women sat and stretched and gulped water and energy drinks and then, in their dual roles of athletes and ambassadors, headed for all points of the stadium to patiently sign dozens and dozens and more dozens of autographs.
At that moment, the Americans were between dramas. They had produced one of the great moments in the history of women's soccer the previous summer when Megan Rapinoe launched a long, curving dead-on pass that Abby Wambach headed into the Brazil net with the United States down a player and a goal in the final seconds of overtime in a World Cup quarterfinal.
The United States won that game on penalty kicks, only to lose the same way to Japan in the World Cup final, a loss that stung even more because the Americans twice surrendered late one-goal leads.
Now the Summer Olympics in London awaited, and a chance for this same group of players to kick away all that pain and disappointment. But on that peaceful May night in Philadelphia, in the calm before the roar, the team could still breathe easy.
I thought of that scene two months later as the Americans battled in a desperate Olympic semifinal against an underdog Canadian club intent on ambush. Three times, the Canadians took a one-goal lead; three times, the United States women battled back to tie the score. Now as overtime wound down, and penalty kicks loomed again, it was Rapinoe who raced like a madwoman to inbound a ball that Canada had kicked over the line.
It was easy to see that she wanted no part of the lotterylike randomness of penalty kicks, when anyone might score or miss, when the Americans could just as easily lose as prevail. Win it now, win it now, you could hear Rapinoe saying to herself. And the Americans did, with Alex Morgan heading in the winner in the final moments of overtime, just as Wambach had done the summer before.
In the gold medal final, the Americans faced Japan again, and nearly gave away the lead again, with Hope Solo making a full-out, lunging save to preserve a 2-1 victory. So over two summers, the American women put together four intensely memorable games, broadened their following and created enough momentum for a third effort to create a professional league.
Maybe this time a league will succeed, or maybe it won't. And maybe, at some point next spring or summer, the American women will come back to the banks of Delaware for an encore, this time in triumph.
* * *
The Greatest Fight That Never Was
By Greg Bishop
The fight that mattered most, the one certain to shatter pay-per-view records and make boxing relevant to the mainstream sports fan again, if only temporarily, became less likely in 2012. To say the chances of its taking place in 2013 are improbable would be to acknowledge a sliver of a chance, like that line from ''Dumb and Dumber'':
So you're telling me there's a chance?
No, there is none.
Back in January, the superfight between Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Manny Pacquiao was already unlikely, already a pipe dream, which befuddled fans of sports, where the best teams and best players actually face off. But this is boxing, and those three words manage to explain everything, to summarize all the chaos and confusion that have come to define a classic sport.
All anyone who ever watched a boxing match wanted was for Mayweather to step inside the ring with Pacquiao. Here were the two very best boxers of their generation, in the same weight class, on paths that seemed destined to collide. For that fight, three million P.P.V. buys seemed possible. So did total revenue of more than $200 million.
Yet these fighters, again, in the same weight class, continued to fight the same opponents, on parallel paths that remained just that. If this strategy doesn't make sense, it's not supposed to. This is boxing.
Then came 2012. Mayweather went to jail after he pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery domestic violence. The incident reportedly took place in front of his children. This is boxing, though, so Mayweather fought and beat Miguel Cotto in May. The same Cotto that Pacquiao demolished in 2009 on his rise to global icon.
Pacquiao lost twice in 2012. Timothy Bradley beat him first, in a fight that nobody, not even Bradley if he's being honest, felt he won. But where Bradley did not succeed -- in the court of public opinion -- Juan Manuel Márquez did. In their fourth fight, Márquez knocked Pacquiao out cold.
There lay the champion, the fighter of the decade, face down on the canvas, as Mitt Romney -- yes, that Mitt Romney -- sat only a few rows away, his face registering but one emotion: shock. For once after a Pacquiao fight, no one mentioned Mayweather, or the megafight that was said to have the potential to redefine their sport.
So here we are. The best boxer in recent memory, Mayweather, has fought five times since late 2007 and spent more time in 2012 behind bars than in the gym. His most anticipated challenger may retire, if not now, then soon.
For the past year or two, it always felt improbable, the possibility of Mayweather against Pacquiao. It seemed as if they would box when they were old, when one or the other needed money, when the fight that mattered most mattered far less. Now even that seems like a fantasy boxing matchup, one in which Mayweather clearly would be favored.
As 2012 turns to 2013, it seems safe to say that the fight that never was now will never be.
This is boxing.
* * *
A Fine Night to Appreciate a Mets First
By Andrew Keh
Two things they told me when I was beginning as the beat writer covering the Mets, just over a year ago:
1. No Mets pitcher had ever thrown a no-hitter, a fact that became more sad and significant and comical with each game, so be prepared to write about the first one.
2. Nights off at home, for a baseball writer, are rare. Enjoy them, if you can.
These thoughts collided on June 1. That night, the Mets were playing the St. Louis Cardinals in Queens, and I was ducking into a subterranean izakaya in Manhattan. There was no cellphone reception. Baseball seemed distant.
But after a few bites and a couple of beers, there appeared Johan Santana, the veteran Mets lefty, on a soundless television screen mounted against a distant wall. It showed him inducing three routine outs before the station cut back to the original program.
''Strange highlight'' was my first thought. My second came quickly, frantically: ''No-hitter!''
Alarm bells went off. Here was a major event developing on my beat. But what could I do? I assumed -- correctly, it turned out -- that the reporting duties were in capable hands. Tim Rohan, an intern on one of his first assignments, went on to write an elegant game story. So I took the rare opportunity to watch from afar, as a casual observer.
The check was settled, and my friends and I surfaced back to street level and hustled to a nearby sports bar, getting there during the top of the eighth inning, stepping into a room abuzz. Each out recorded raised the volume of the place.
With his 134th pitch, Santana, with his surgically repaired shoulder, recorded the final out, and after 8,020 games, the Mets had their first no-hitter.
On-screen, Santana screamed and was mobbed by teammates. In our bar, patrons whooped and smiled.
There was something strange about seeing this, a postgame celebration involving the Mets. It was charming, of course. But it also brought to mind how scarce such celebrations have been for the team in recent years.
And there was something strange about the scene inside the bar. We were away from the rumble of Citi Field and its die-hards, but people applauded and raised their beer glasses. Some were Mets fans, others casual sports fans. All seemed surprised and happy to have a tangible reason to salute the team.
Over several weeks, the afterglow of the night would fade, giving way to another dreary season for the Mets, another fourth-place finish. R. A. Dickey, a charismatic knuckleballer, enlivened things at the end, winning 20 games and a Cy Young Award. But his glow was extinguished, too, when he was traded this month to the Toronto Blue Jays, a move to benefit the future.
So who can say now when the Mets will play another meaningful game? Who knows when the next on-field celebration for the Mets might occur?
Until then, June 1, 2012, will be fondly remembered. It was a fine night to be off the baseball beat.
* * *
Quiet World Cup Groundwork for the U.S.
By Andrew Das
What if the easy part was the hard part?
Two years out from the World Cup in Brazil should be quiet time for the United States national team and Coach Jurgen Klinsmann, who coasted through 2012, losing only twice in 14 games. Sure, the early-round World Cup qualifiers on the schedule were important, and there was a hairy moment or two. But the Americans' finishing in the top half of a group with Jamaica, Guatemala, and Antigua and Barbuda wasn't really heavy lifting, and many fans weren't always paying close attention anyway. The friendlies were generally low-risk (Venezuela, Scotland, Canada) or high-reward (Brazil's Olympic team). A first-ever win in Italy was a bonus, and a similar feat in Mexico was an even nicer surprise. Even the goals started to come: five one night in Jacksonville, three in Tampa and Jamaica, two more on a frozen field in Russia.
But Klinsmann was doing his heavy lifting behind the scenes. He tinkered with positions and personalities and, at times, nationalities. He leaned on goalkeeper Tim Howard while trying out defenders who didn't always protect him. He integrated midfielder Michael Bradley, the frequently scowling son of the coach he replaced, into the heart and soul of his team, and then surrounded him with a mixture of German muscle and homegrown hopefuls. He pushed striker Jozy Altidore to take his game more seriously and nudged Clint Dempsey to find a bigger club. All the while, he taught those he sent to the field -- 49 players over the course of the year -- how to stop falling behind, and how to fight their way out when they did.
According to the script, the next stage -- the bulk of the Americans' 2013 schedule -- should be the hardest: five regional rivals, home and away. Honduras. Costa Rica. Mexico. Jamaica. Panama. Places where it's just as well that you don't speak the local language, especially the words for ''mother'' and ''sister.'' Places where they hurl not only insults -- though there are plenty of those -- but also coins and batteries and bags filled with urine.
The Americans must survive that gantlet to claim one of the region's three guaranteed places in the 2014 World Cup. The core of the team has done this before, the most recent part of a run of six straight World Cup trips, an active streak longer than even Mexico's. The question of 2013 will be whether that experience will make it easier this time.
Klinsmann will start the journey with a spine of World Cup veterans like Howard and Carlos Bocanegra and Bradley and Dempsey running through his team. He'll enter it with other players toughened by games in the Champions League, even if that experience came with Anderlecht and Nordsjaelland, not Arsenal and Milan. He will enter it, as the American coach often does, with the burden of leading one of the favorites. What may be missing for the first time in years is Landon Donovan, who is seriously considering a break from the game, perhaps permanent.
The discussion they will have will be difficult for Klinsmann, to be sure. But some of his toughest work is already behind him.
* * *
Redemption in Left Field: A 9-Act Play
By Peter Lattman
On a Sunday afternoon in late August, I found myself home alone in the sweltering city, my family away at the beach.
Since misery loves company, I turned on the Mets.
After a solid first half, the Mets were in the throes of an epic late-season collapse. But they were better off than their opponent, the visiting Astros, owners of the worst record in baseball. It was a train wreck of a matchup.
Yet for the Flushing faithful, the game had compelling subplots. There was the return to the lineup of Lucas Duda, a powerful young slugger whose personal struggles embodied the Mets' woes. Duda had held such promise early in the year, but after an abysmal hitting slump and defensive miscues in right field, the Mets demoted him to the minors. He had spent the past month playing for the Class AAA Buffalo Bisons, trying to resuscitate his swing and learn a new position, left field.
Another young Met, the rookie right-hander Jeremy Hefner, took the mound that day in what would be his best outing of the season. In a taut pitching duel with Lucas Harrell, the Astros' rookie standout, Hefner took a 1-0 lead into the ninth inning. After he gave up a leadoff single, the next batter, Marwin Gonzalez, hit a low liner into left field.
Duda chugged toward the foul line and slid but couldn't make the catch. The base runner scored. Hefner's shutout slipped through his glove. Though a tough play, it was a makable one. The broadcasters knocked Duda's fielding. The television camera fixed on him, alone in left field, a pained expression on his face.
But two batters later, he got another chance. The Astros' Ben Francisco hit a grounder past the shortstop for a base hit. A determined Duda charged the ball with abandon, scooped it up on the run and threw a bull's-eye to the Mets' catcher, who tagged Gonzalez as he tried to score from second.
The tie was preserved. Sweet redemption for Duda!
With one out in the bottom of the ninth, Ike Davis hit his second home run of the game. Mets 2, Astros 1.
This is a franchise that has caused its fans serious heartache, with the past season especially distressing (and the next one loaded with uncertainty). But on a Sunday afternoon in late August, the Mets were a blissful 2-hour-19-minute distraction. The stakes could not have been lower, but the game could not have been better.
* * *
After Flash of Failure, Phelps Secures His Place in History
By Lynn Zinser
For a night or two at the London Olympics, it looked as if Michael Phelps's storied career would end in a fizzle. He had been routed in a race he had once dominated, the 400-meter individual medley, and the look on his face betrayed bewilderment. Losing was not something Phelps had ever had to learn how to do.
As everyone granted him second-class status behind the new hero Ryan Lochte, the instant caterwauling about Phelps's disappointing demise ignored one thing: whether or not Phelps is the best Olympian ever, he may be one of the best competitors. Four gold and two silver medals later, Phelps's familiar crooked grin was back, and Lochte was reduced to background noise. In what he says was his final Games, Phelps became the most decorated Olympian, finishing with 22 career medals, 18 of them gold.
Live-blogging the events for The New York Times, I was watching every last stroke from afar, laughing while writing the latest feats of the Phelps epic. I had been in Sydney in 2000 when Phelps swam in his first Olympics as a 15-year-old, a shy, gangly kid who was welcomed to the world of big news conferences with a question about whether he had ever kissed a girl. (The non-offending reporters cringed at that one.)
That first Olympics was rather forgettable -- Phelps finished fifth in his only event, the 200-meter butterfly -- but by 2004, Phelps was the star his sport would begin to orbit around. I sat in the stands in Athens next to Phelps's mother, Debbie, as he won his first gold medal, in world-record time in the 400 I.M. She was bubbling over with emotion, and even the relentlessly even-keeled Phelps let a few of his dream-come-true thoughts play out on his face. His era had begun.
For his heroics in Beijing, I was a mere spectator, off covering other Olympic events, which was a good thing because I had probably run out of words to describe him after 2004. Nothing he did surprised me because, watching Phelps swim, it's possible to believe he can do anything. Unlike in other sports, the truly magical competitors in swimming appear to be expending so much less energy than anyone else. Phelps glides through the water as if propelled by some supernatural force.
The magic of 2012 was that he had to work for it, really work for it, and the effort was visible this time. No longer was winning those races a given, and as he pulled himself out of the pool each time, every ache showed. The superhero was indeed human, but underestimating him was never wise.
* * *
A Superstar Goes Down, but the Yanks Fight On
By Patty LaDuca
On the afternoon of May 3, my Times colleague David Waldstein delivered the news on Twitter: ''Mariano Rivera appears to have been injured in outfield during BP. He is being taken off the field on a cart. Looks bad.''
My heart sank.
The Yankees, about to start a four-game series against the Royals in Kansas City, were 13-11 and in fourth place in the American League East. This news seemed like the end of hope for the season and perhaps the end of Rivera's illustrious career.
We soon learned that he had torn the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while chasing a fly ball, an activity he had always enjoyed but now seemed foolish. Before he could have surgery to repair it, a blood clot developed in his calf, a common complication in older patients like Rivera, then 42.
The most dominant and durable closer in baseball history, he was the glue that held the Yankees together for 15 years. How could they make up any ground after losing him for the rest of the season, let alone make the playoffs?
Turns out that they could. Rafael Soriano filled in ably in the bullpen, posting 42 saves and taking his place in my book among the pantheon of Yankees closers like Dave Righetti, Sparky Lyle, Goose Gossage and John (Walk the Bases Loaded, Then Strike Out the Side) Wetteland. The Yankees won 95 games and the American League East title.
In the playoffs, relief pitching was the least of the Yankees' problems. Their bats were feeble (.211 average) as they squeaked past Baltimore in a five-game division series and went silent (.157) as Detroitswept them in the A.L. Championship Series.
It turned out the injury would not mean the end of Rivera's career either. He announced in no uncertain terms that he would return in 2013, rested and ready at 43.
''I'm coming back,'' he said the day after his injury. ''Write it down in big letters.''
My heart sang.
* * *
Giants, Again Needing Hero, Find One Along the Sideline
By Ben Shpigel
The Giants have this thing about artistic, brilliant, darn-near-impossible fourth-quarter catches in Super Bowl victories against New England. Mainly, they make them. And mainly, the catches are made by receivers who in the moment demand a formal introduction to the public at large -- but only then, never again.
Say the name Mario Manningham to most any football fan, and there is instant recognition, followed perhaps by wonderment: how did he haul in that pass while keeping both feet inbounds?
Like David Tyree before him, Manningham had a sense of occasion that February night, at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, where the Giants toasted another improbable championship, their second in five seasons. They defeated New England, 21-17, because of Eli Manning's arm and a stingy defense and a reluctant touchdown by Ahmad Bradshaw, but mostly because Manningham's feet stopped growing when they did.
They are size 11. Anything bigger and, he said afterward, ''I would have been out.'' He was not exaggerating, either.
The Giants trailed, 17-15, with 3 minutes 46 seconds remaining. The ball was at their 12 when Manning, with Vince Wilfork's hand in his face, heaved an arcing, perfect pass down the near sideline, the Patriots' sideline, where Manningham was running, having beaten safety Sterling Moore at the line of scrimmage.
''Step up,'' Manningham said he told himself. ''Dig deep.''
Across the field stood Tyree, the Giants' talisman. He entered franchise lore by pinning the football against his helmet in the Super Bowl four years before, extending the winning drive. On this night, Manningham needed only his fingertips and toes, no helmet. As another safety, Patrick Chung, closed in, Manningham reached out his hands. The ball, lofted over his shoulder, fell in. His right foot touched the ground first, and then his left, his size 11s both inbounds but barely.
Eight plays later, the Giants scored what proved to be the winning touchdown. A raucous celebration soon followed, and the afterglow lasted for weeks. By mid-March, though, Manningham was no longer a Giant, off to San Francisco, to play for the 49ers. He was gone, yes. But forgotten? Never.
* * *
A Triumph for Zambia Near the Site of a Tragedy
By David Waldstein
Perhaps it was destiny's hand that guided Zambia to one of the most remarkable victories in the history of the African Cup of Nations last February, or maybe it was just poetic coincidence.
The emotional championship was secured just a few hundred yards from the site of the plane crash off the coast of Libreville, Gabon, that killed a previous Zambian team 19 years earlier, and it produced a moment of long-awaited joy for the impoverished southern African nation.
It was the first time the under-regarded Zambians, known as the Chipolopolo (copper bullets), won the title in the 55-year history of the tournament, and it was also the first time the tournament was held in Gabon. It took 15 penalty kicks to ultimately vanquish a powerful Ivory Coast team, which boasted stars like Didier Drogba, Yaya Touré and Salomon Kalou.
On April 27, 1993, the Zambian national soccer team was on a flight from Lusaka, Zambia, to Senegal for a World Cup qualifying match when its plane plunged into the ocean off the coast of Libreville. All 30 people on board, including 18 members of a strong team, died.
That team held great promise for Zambia, with legitimate hopes of winning that year's African Cup and qualifying for the 1994 World Cup. Some of the players were on the team that stunned Italy, 4-0, in the 1988 Olympics, the first thrashing of a European power by an African team in any major competition. The electrifying Kalusha Bwalya, who scored a hat trick in that game, went on to be called the best player in Zambian soccer history. At the time of the crash he was traveling to Gabon from the Netherlands, where he played for the Dutch powerhouse PSV Eindhoven, so he was not on the plane.
A year later, almost single-handedly, Bwalya led the decimated Chipolopolo to a second-place finish at the 1994 African Cup in Tunisia, and later coached the national team. He later became the president of the Football Association of Zambia and was on hand in Libreville when his team finally won the cup.
Two days before the Feb. 12 final, the team visited the beach near where the plane crashed offshore, an emotional moment for everyone, but particularly for Bwalya, who lost so many teammates that night.
''I say here that their dreams are our dreams,'' Bwalya said. ''They are smiling down on heaven as we take part in this tournament in Gabon.''
In the tense, hard-fought game, all seemed lost for Zambia when the Ivoirians were awarded a penalty in the 70th minute. But Drogba shot high, and the game eventually went to penalty kicks. After 14 kicks, the sides were even, but on the 15th, Stoppila Sunzu sizzled one into the top corner. Zambia had an incomparable 8-7 victory.
For some back in Zambia, the spirit of the 18 lost players clearly had a hand in the outcome.
''We know what we wanted to honor this evening,'' Zambia's coach, Herve Renard, said afterward. ''It was a sign of destiny, written in the sky; there was a force with us.''
* * *
Finding Hope in Football, and Providing It
By Jeré Longman
Kickoff for the Pennsylvania state championship game was minutes away. Music and a taped inspirational speech filled the Clairton High School locker room. But Terrish Webb sat outside on a set of concrete steps. He wiped tears from his eyes.
''I miss my dad,'' Webb, 17, told his close friend and teammate Robby Boatwright, who gave him a hug.
''I got your back,'' Boatwright said. ''I love you.''
Six years earlier, almost to the day, Webb's father had been shot to death as he drove his car in the late afternoon near the football field in Clairton, a frayed steel mill town south of Pittsburgh. Webb was 11 at the time. The case has never been solved.
''When you have tragedy like that in your immediate family, some kids tend to go the wrong way,'' said Wayne Wade, a former star quarterback at Clairton who is now the team's defensive coordinator. ''They can't handle it. They start to question themselves. Why me? They look into different avenues to go, which are negative. Terrish found a positive one in football with a lot of his friends. They vowed a long time ago that they wanted to win state championships and they did all the right things to do it.''
Clairton fell on hard times when the steel industry collapsed in the 1980s. Much of its downtown is abandoned, boarded up. But football has provided a glimmer of hope amid the civic gloominess. Webb caught a 21-yard touchdown pass in a 20-0 victory in the Class A title game on Dec. 14 at Hersheypark Stadium, helping Clairton to a fourth consecutive state championship and its 63rd consecutive win, the nation's longest current winning streak.
A 6-foot-1 receiver and cornerback, Webb caught 16 touchdown passes, rushed for 4 touchdowns and intercepted 8 passes this season. He is also the senior class president and ranks second in his class with a 3.8 grade-point average. He is considering playing college football at Kent State, Pittsburgh or Toledo.
''That's a special person who can come back from such adversity,'' Tom Nola, Clairton's coach, said of Webb. ''He's the best student on the team. He's going to college. He's going to make something of his life. My hat's off to him.''
Nola credited Webb's mother, Tinisha Webb, who works as an administrative assistant at a hospital in suburban Pittsburgh, with keeping Terrish from despair and stressing the importance of education. His friends, too, vowed that they would not succumb to the temptations and violence of a city where nearly a quarter of the 6,796 residents live below the poverty level.
''People think this is just football,'' Webb said. ''This is more than football to us. This is the way out from where we come from.''
* * *
In Pictures | Football
* * *
Bid to Win Triple Crown Ends in Barn at Belmont
By Melissa Hoppert
It was a sun-drenched Friday morning at Belmont Park, and with an elusive Triple Crown on the line, the employees and even the horses seemed to have an extra bounce in their step.
One day stood between I'll Have Another and the history books: he had a chance to be the 12th Triple Crown winner and the first since Affirmed in 1978.
It had already been a magical run for the underdog colt and jockey Mario Gutierrez, who had won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes in thrilling fashion.
Not many people were at the trainer Doug O'Neill's barn at 9:30 a.m. that day, but those who were appeared in good spirits, hardly letting on that something was amiss with the champion colt.
O'Neill was said to be dealing with the arrival of his family, but in hindsight, he had bigger worries than travel arrangements.
By 11:30, O'Neill had confirmed on the Dan Patrick radio show that I'll Have Another was out of the Belmont Stakes with a tendon injury.
As word began to travel around Belmont Park, and the news media swarmed the detention barn, people were in a state of disbelief. One track worker called home: ''Did you hear that? They scratched the horse!'' Another said, ''I hear that he's never going to race again.'' A horseplayer threw his program and shouted, ''Unbelievable.''
Jimmy Crennan of nearby Williston Park, Long Island, who had been to every Belmont since 1980, was sitting in the backyard area. His thoughts? ''Shock and disappointment.''
''It's like the air comes out of the balloon,'' he said. ''I got here today, and I was in such good spirits.
''I'm sure there will be 30,000 less people here tomorrow now.''
Steve Wolfson, the son of Louis Wolfson, the owner of Affirmed, said: ''What a disappointment. It's just such a daunting task, and then for this to happen. I really feel bad about it, for the horse, for Doug O'Neill and Mario Gutierrez and for the public. It's really sad.''
The race went on, however, and a crowd of 85,811, the largest on a non-Triple Crown day, watched as Union Rags charged past Paynter to capture the Belmont Stakes.
I'll Have Another is now standing stud in Japan. But perhaps the story is not finished. His former owner, Paul Reddam, and O'Neill have another Derby contender for 2013: He's Had Enough.
* * *
A League's Ruinous Battle Against Itself
By Jeff Z. Klein
Bill Daly, the N.H.L.'s deputy commissioner, is a man not normally given to purple public statements. But when he said ''the hill we will die on'' during a news conference Dec. 6, he angrily summed up where the N.H.L. went in a ruinous 2012.
Daly used that phrase while standing next to Commissioner Gary Bettman, who was visibly shaking with rage, as they explained why they had just rejected the players' latest proposal and extended the N.H.L.'s lockout.
''Term limits on player contracts, which is the hill we will die on,'' Daly said.
It was a telling choice of words -- an utterance so evocative of gallant sacrifice and heroic last stands, yet made in connection with a mere business issue.
But that is how Bettman, Daly and the N.H.L. owners seem to view this lockout: as a kind of apocalyptic battle in which the players union must be defeated, even if the world must be brought down to do so.
Some blame Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, for the impasse. But Fehr was not around for the N.H.L. lockout in 1994-95, or the one that wiped out the 2004-5 season -- nobody in the union leadership was.
The only people in leadership positions during all three lockouts are on the league side: Bettman; Jeremy Jacobs, the Boston Bruins' owner; and Bob Batterman, the Proskauer Rose lawyer known for directing sports lockouts. (Daly was a key player in the last two lockouts.)
Lockouts are now a habit with the N.H.L., and this one will continue into 2013, even though the players have made most of the concessions and Bettman is excoriated by figures as diverse as Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey (''This is the third time this has happened in recent memory -- you know, that's bad management'') and the president of the Kontinental Hockey League, Alexander Medvedev (''How egotistical the N.H.L. is -- financial issues trump the development of the game for them'').
Even if a settlement is reached in the weeks to come, the damage has been done: many avid fans have lost interest, and the N.H.L. has slid back into the near irrelevance in the American sports landscape that it only recently escaped after so many years of struggle.
Daly was talking about contract lengths when he used the ominous phrase, but in the larger sense, he was right. This lockout may indeed be the hill the N.H.L. will die on.
* * *
Losing Marathon, and Heart
By Ken Belson
A wise editor once said, It takes years to build trust and a minute to erase it. He was talking about the news business, but he could also have been talking about New York Road Runners.
The group has spent decades turning its five-borough race, the New York City Marathon, into a 26.2-mile international celebration that unites millions of New Yorkers in the streets every November. It has become one of the city's most heartwarming events.
But much of that good will was swept away after Hurricane Sandy pummeled the city. Rather than cancel the race, which was scheduled for less than a week after the storm, and give its food, water and supplies to the newly homeless or ask runners to donate their entry fees to relief efforts, the running group, egged on by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, forged ahead.
''It's a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you know, you've got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind,'' Bloomberg said that week.
The decision backfired. Instead of bucking up the city's spirits, the race became a lightning rod for critics -- including many runners -- who saw Bloomberg and Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, as callous elitists more willing to host out-of-town athletes than to help shivering residents on Staten Island.
When political rivals took aim at him and protesters threatened to disrupt the race, Bloomberg was finally persuaded to call off the race, leaving Wittenberg to repair the event's tattered image. In waiting until the city reached full boil, the mayor and Wittenberg had many asking, What were they thinking?
Institutional inertia was partly to blame. New York Road Runners spends a year preparing for the race; no doubt Wittenberg was reluctant to throw all that work away.
But hubris played a role, too. Did the mayor really believe it was a good idea for police officers, emergency medical technicians and other public workers to man a road race instead of caring for the city's neediest? Did Wittenberg really think the average Joe in Brooklyn was in the mood to cheer for runners who had plenty of food while others scrounged for a meal?
With Bloomberg leaving office in a year, it will be up to Wittenberg to do the tough work of rebuilding the Road Runners brand and winning back the city's heart. Perhaps the hard lessons learned after the storm will not be forgotten.
* * *
In Pictures | Soccer: Olympics, Euro 2012 and Beckham
* * *
Stretching the Invisible Borders of a Sport
By Juliet Macur
Gabby Douglas, the spunky, fresh-faced gymnast once held back by self-doubt, was not supposed to win the gold medal in the all-around at the 2012 London Olympics.
She was what the United States women's team coordinator Martha Karolyi had called ''an average national team gymnast'' who was not even expected to beat a teammate, Jordyn Wieber, the reigning world champion in the all-around. To Karolyi, Wieber was the second coming of Nadia Comaneci, and Douglas was just a sidekick, too inexperienced and unfocused to perform when it counted the most.
But the 16-year-old Douglas skyrocketed to the top of the sport in a matter of five months.
With uncanny steadiness and precision, she won the all-around title at the Olympics -- the first black gymnast to earn the top spot and only the fourth American woman to do so. Afterward, she let out her trademark giggle and said, ''Wow, I believed in myself!'' as if she even amazed herself that she had pulled off what was once unthinkable.
As she stood atop the Olympic podium, Douglas beamed at her family members in the arena as they wiped away tears. Her mother, Natalie Hawkins, a plucky single mother of four, and Douglas's three siblings hugged one another and said, again and again, that all their sacrifices were worth it.
The biggest sacrifice was losing Douglas for nearly two years. In 2010, at age 14, she left her family in Virginia Beach, Va., to train in Iowa with Liang Chow, the coach who had helped Shawn Johnson win an Olympic gold medal in 2008. Douglas lived with a host family because her own family could not afford to pay for her housing.
Though that family, the Partons, was kind and generous, with four young daughters who soon looked to Douglas as a big sister, Douglas felt awkward at first. She missed sleeping in her own bed. She missed her two dogs. And she missed the beach, where she loved to go boogie boarding. She nearly quit the sport because she was so homesick.
But her resolve to stick with it paid off. In March, Douglas recorded the highest score in the women's all-around event at the American Cup, beating Wieber, the favorite to win the Olympic gold. Douglas's score didn't count, though, because she had competed as an alternate. So she stood back to watch Wieber accept the prize.
By July, Douglas had won the Olympic trials, dealing Wieber only her second all-around loss in four years. The next step: the Olympic gold.
Now Douglas has gone big time. She was featured on Corn Flakes boxes and the cover of People magazine. She was named one of the women of the year by magazines like Essence and Glamour.
Douglas had a feeling that this would be her fate.
''I have an advantage because I'm the underdog and I'm black and no one thinks I'd ever win,'' she said two months before the Olympics. ''Well, I'm going to inspire so many people. Everybody will be talking about, 'How did she come up so fast?' But I'm ready to shine.''
* * *
Every Move and Throw Under Watch
By Judy Battista
In any other camp, with any other quarterback, it would have been a simple game of catch while the cool morning mist burned off. But it was Peyton Manning and it was Denver -- Denver, that was strange enough, and John Elway was milling somewhere around those practice fields. And so there were notes to take and charts to keep, a half dozen or so reporters looking on, trying to decide if the touch was still there on the short fade routes Manning tossed over and over to receivers he was just getting to know.
Manning's recovery from four neck operations took the N.F.L. wire to wire in 2012. There were the occasional jabs he threw at the Indianapolis Colts in January as they fired one after another of the people Manning had known for years -- he said then that he was walking on eggshells. Then came his tearful news conference at which his release became official, and a coast-to-coast free agent odyssey, with helicopters and blacked-out car windows, and finally his remarkable on-field resurrection.
Manning was the dominant player of the year, given the sort of scrutiny that usually attends the vicissitudes of royal romances. We saw the video as the Colts removed the building-high pictures of him from the side of their stadium. Then we saw the video as he met surreptitiously with teams -- did the orange sweater mean anything to Manning, a former Tennessee Volunteer, on his visit to the Tennessee Titans? And then we saw the video as Manning barked at his new teammates during a game. Same as it ever was.
From the start in Denver, Manning gamely tried to lower expectations for his play, to no avail. He is still, now, with his team on the cusp of securing a playoff bye, insisting that he has much work to do -- defensive coordinators are probably sick of hearing that -- and he bristled at the dissection of his passes that accompanied his return. But it was Eric Decker, one of the receivers with whom Manning was doing extra work on the side that day in August, who may have given the best indication of what was to come months later.
''I've never seen a guy demand so much out of himself or his teammates,'' he said. ''He throws a football better than I've ever seen a quarterback throw a football. He allows us so many greater opportunities.''
In 2013, Manning may have an opportunity that even he, when he tried to throw a pass to his friend Todd Helton last year that nose-dived into the ground, might never have imagined he'd have again. The Broncos will enter the N.F.L. playoffs as one of the highest seeds, with a top-five offense supported by a top-five defense. From the nadir of his career, Manning has worked himself all the way back -- to be on, maybe, the best team he's ever had.
* * *
States Feed the Spread of Sports Wagering
By Joe Drape
Huey Long, as Louisiana's governor, promised a chicken in every pot. New York's Andrew M. Cuomo wants table games in as many corners of the state as possible, and New Jersey's Chris Christie hopes to build brick-and-mortar sports books and to make the Garden State a hub for online gambling.
They are hardly alone. From Kansas to Massachusetts, there is a gold rush by some states to embrace all forms of wagering to shore up their shrinking budgets.
Think of 2013 as a roulette wheel and a host of states with marbles in the game. New York intends to lay the groundwork for seven casinos. Ground is also likely to be broken in Massachusetts for three, including one in the Boston area.
And with Nevada having already approved online poker and begun preparing sites to be operating in early 2013, Governor Christie is certain to have the fate of Atlantic City, as well as the state's horse racing industry, in his hands as two bills continue to gather momentum.
An online gambling bill has already passed the New Jersey Assembly and Senate, and one of Internet gambling's top sites, PokerStars, is negotiating to acquire the Atlantic Club casino on the Jersey Shore.
This would be no less than a portal to the 22nd century and perhaps a mother lode for new tax revenue.
Christie has also vowed to defy a federal ban on sports wagering, and New Jersey's Legislature enacted a sports betting law in January, paving the way for sports books in Atlantic City casinos and the state's horse racing tracks.
The N.C.A.A. and three professional leagues argue that gambling hurts the integrity and perception of their games. This is an especially rich argument coming from the National Football League since two of its earliest owners, Art Rooney and Tim Mara, were gamblers. In 1936, Rooney, whose family still owns the Pittsburgh Steelers, turned two prescient days at the racetrack into $300,000. In 1925, Mara, a bookmaker, paid $500 for the Giants.
The N.F.L. injury report and betting lines certainly exist for a reason, and it's no accident that the league accounts for nearly 55 percent of the more than $1.3 billion wagered on football in Nevada in 2011.
So the leagues have done pretty well for decades alongside legalized sports gambling in Nevada, with billions more of illegal betting in bar rooms, fantasy leagues and offshore Web sites.
Now, the question being asked in state and federal courthouses is: why not take the sports book national, or even global?
* * *
After the Storm, Brooklyn's Moment
By Benjamin Hoffman
Everything had gone right for the Nets. Their new home in Brooklyn was complete, their apparel had become a huge hit among fans, they unexpectedly retained their signature star, and they were going to be able to show all of that off in a season opener against the Knicks.
Then Hurricane Sandy hit.
With the city's tunnels flooded, gasoline becoming scarce and the subway system shut down, suddenly the opener, scheduled for Nov. 1, had to be postponed and all of the excitement seemed to wither away.
Two days later, with the transit system still a mess and the city in a fierce debate over the cancellation of the marathon, it was decided that the Nets would go ahead with their scheduled game against the Toronto Raptors, a far less exciting opponent than the Knicks, risking empty seats in what they had hoped would be their grand debut.
A message posted to Twitter by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo that morning got things going in the right direction as he announced that the 4 and 5 trains would resume service, meaning that the large number of people in Manhattan hoping to see the game (including this reporter, who lives in Brooklyn but found himself working in Times Square that morning) would not have to brave the long lines for slow shuttle buses or break out their swim trunks for a jaunt across the East River.
As people shuffled onto the train at Grand Central Terminal, more than a few Nets hats were visible as everyone seemed somewhat unsure that the subways could really be back. Just days before, people had been walking to work across the Brooklyn Bridge and through a mostly abandoned and powerless downtown, but now the city was starting to feel more like itself.
Come game time, the crowd had filled out nicely, helped by a last-minute surge in ticket sales through online marketplaces like StubHub, and the Nets took the floor with Jay-Z watching and BrooklyKnight rappelling from the ceiling.
It was not a pretty game, with the Nets falling behind early and then struggling to catch up, but a strong second quarter led to the first major Brooklyn sports team since 1957 winning, 107-100.
Considering everything that had gone into the move from New Jersey, and the conditions surrounding the season's start, the actual basketball was the easy part.
* * *
A Stoicism That Can't Be Cracked
By Naila-Jean Meyers
A single clap. Andy Murray had just broken Novak Djokovic for the second time in the fifth set of the United States Open final, and all he got from his coach, Ivan Lendl, was one measly clap. In the previous set, when Murray won an exhilarating 30-shot rally and the nearly 24,000 fans at Arthur Ashe Stadium erupted, Lendl did not see fit to join that ovation either.
It was hard to take my eyes off Lendl that Monday night as the captivated crowd surrounding him gasped and roared at every lunging forehand and ripped backhand -- even with the distraction of Sean Connery sitting nearby, wrapped in a blue blanket and pumping his fist for Murray, his fellow Scot.
As a summer's day became a blustery night, as Djokovic and Murray took turns muttering to themselves, Lendl was the model of stoic calm -- awkwardly dressed in a red sweater and white shorts, often hunched over, elbow on knee, chin in hand.
But that's why he was there. That's why the mercurial Murray chose Lendl to be his coach this year. Lendl knew what it was like to come so close and fall short over and over. He knew, as Murray knew, as Britain knew. There would be no cheering until it was over.
Murray took us along on his emotional roller coaster in 2012. The heartbreak of his loss in the Wimbledon final, when he had Roger Federer on his heels, then the rain came, the roof closed, and it ended with Murray tearfully saying, ''Getting closer.'' The leap for joy one month later when Murray dismantled Federer on the same court for the Olympic gold medal, part of the crescendo of British athletic greatness at the London Games. The relief -- the word Murray chose when asked to summarize his feelings -- when he outlasted Djokovic that September night for his coveted first Grand Slam title, becoming the first British man to capture a Grand Slam singles championship since Fred Perry in 1936.
When it was really, truly over, Murray was holding the trophy and thanking his coach in front of the crowd, saying, ''I think that was almost a smile.''
The match itself was a roller coaster. Murray won the first two sets, including a 12-10 first-set tiebreaker, then saw Djokovic fight back. They played for 4 hours 54 minutes, on the 15th day of another United States Open tormented by bad weather.
For the record, it wasn't even the longest Grand Slam final this year: that was Djokovic's 5-hour-53-minute victory over Rafael Nadal at the Australian Open. It was a can-you-top-this year for men's tennis. Djokovic, Nadal, Federer and Murray each won Grand Slam tournaments. Federer reclaimed the No. 1 ranking for four months and won his first major title in two and a half years. Djokovic won six titles, returned to No. 1 and was the player of the year. All that was missing was a full-strength Nadal, who succumbed to bad knees after winning the French Open.
A liberated Murray. A persistent Djokovic. A determined Federer. A (hopefully) healthy Nadal. It's shaping up to be a 2013 season that might make even Lendl stand up and cheer.
* * *
Finding Security In a Different SEC
By Brad Smith
When I first moved to New York in 1981, I was pleasantly surprised to learn how much New Yorkers loved college football. As I moved from the South, where Saturdays in the fall rival Sundays for the holiest of days, my belief that it was a regional sport was put aside.
Virtually every day in the paper and on the news, there was a mention of the SEC. Being loyal to my own Southeastern Conference team (Florida), I was happy to know that I was living in the Greatest City in the World, which in turn was equally infatuated with the Greatest Conference in the World. But because of the Ivan Boeskys of the world, I soon learned that the Securities and Exchange Commission was not the SEC I grew up rooting for. New York's S.E.C. was not my SEC.
When I hear SEC today, thankfully, Wall Street is not at the front of my thoughts. I'm thinking of Gainesville, Tuscaloosa and Athens. And while there are similarities between the two (much of the country loathes both, for example), I'm forever locked into the one that throws the pigskin for a long gain, not the one that looks for long-term gains on pork futures. Besides, to paraphrase Babe Ruth, my SEC had a better year than that S.E.C. As a matter of fact, six in a row.
Starting with the 2006 Bowl Championship Series title game between Florida and Ohio State, the SEC has won six consecutive national championships, with four teams. (Florida, Louisiana State, Alabama and Auburn). This past January, much to the disappointment of 99 percent of the country and a television network, two SEC teams played for the title (Alabama and L.S.U.). This year, Alabama is again carrying the torch for the conference of (my) choice, and Notre Dame carrying it for, well, the other 10 conferences and the other 109 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
Division I college football has been dominated by one conference, one I'm proud to be a die-hard fan of for four decades. As I look at my increasingly small savings account, it's quite obvious I've spent way too much time following Barrett Jones rather than Dow Jones. For me, it was money well spent.
* * *
Cricket Rivalry of Nations, All for a Six-Inch Trophy
By Victor Mather
For much of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, there were fewer sure things in sports than the result of the Ashes, the cricket series held every two years between Australia and England.
Regular as clockwork, the Australians drubbed their rivals, winning eight straight series from 1989 to 2003.
But that changed in 2005, when England pulled off an upset that pushed soccer off the London tabloids' back pages. After an Australian win in 2007, the English have seemed to take over dominance with wins in 2009 and 2011. The series resumes this summer, with anticipation high in both hemispheres.
Cricket has been booming in many parts of the world, thanks to a new fast format known as Twenty20, in which matches can be completed in less than the time of a baseball game.
But the Ashes is old school. The teams play a series of five matches, each lasting five days, with six hours of play or more each day. A single player may bat for hours or even all day, gamely hitting defensive shots (something like fouling off pitches in baseball) in hopes of securing a draw. It is not for the casual fan.
But for the aficionados, there is nothing like the Ashes, especially when played, as it will be this summer, at the hallowed English grounds like Lord's and the Oval.
Most English cricket fans can tell you every detail of the match in Leeds in 1981 when their team rallied from a hopeless position (they trailed by 227 runs after one innings and bowled Australia out for 111!). And Australians love to crow about their 5-0 series sweep of 2007, the first since 1921.
The Ashes dates to 1882, when after an Australian win a newspaper published a mock obituary proclaiming the death of English cricket and stating that ''the body will be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia.'' A few weeks later, an English team went off to Australia and its captain, Ivo Bligh, vowed to return with ''the ashes.'' An Australian team presented him with a tiny urn symbolic of the Ashes. At about six inches, it is surely the smallest major sports trophy in the world.
Under a new captain, Alastair Cook, and with the mercurial superstar Kevin Pietersen back in the fold after a text messaging controversy, England is the clear favorite.
In the storied history of the series, Australia leads by 31-30. Wouldn't the English love to even that up this summer?
* * *
Falling Apart After Getting It Half Right
By Bill Pennington
Tiger Woods came off the 18th green after his second round in the 2012 P.G.A. Championship at Kiawah Island tied for the lead. Again.
It was the third consecutive major championship that Woods was in or near the lead at the halfway point.
This had once been a familiar sight -- missing maybe for a couple of years, but for more than a decade before, the golf world knew exactly how Woods looked in command of a big tournament. And fans worldwide knew the frequent outcome: 14 major victories.
But in 2012, as good as Woods could sometimes be, there was one Woods on the weekdays of major tournaments and an altogether different Woods on the weekends, especially the last three.
His average score in the first two rounds of this year's majors was 70, while his average score in the final two rounds was 72.9. It was worse than the statistics indicated -- no weekend round under par and three rounds of 74 or higher. In the final three majors, Woods's average weekday round was even lower (68.8). His weekend average was 72.8.
This was Tiger Woods, golf's ultimate closer?
Not insignificant, it was notable who stole the show from Woods on the final days of the P.G.A. As the third round began at Kiawah Island in early August, Rory McIlroy birdied five of his first nine holes. Well aware of McIlroy's fast start, Woods answered by going three over par in his first seven holes -- holes he had played in three under during the first two rounds.
Woods was not just off his game, he was having trouble keeping the ball in play. With a 15th career major on the line, he yanked tee shots onto adjacent holes, hit one shot into the crowd, flew the green on a par 3 and, at one point, hit three consecutive, dreadfully wayward shots.
In the final round the next day, McIlroy shot a 66 to win by eight strokes. Woods shot a 72 and settled for 11th. Who would have ever thought Tiger Woods would settle for anything in a championship moment?
''I've got to just keep putting myself in a position to win, and if it happens often enough, then I will win,'' Woods said afterward, uttering a line that sounded as if it came from an up-and-coming rookie waiting to break through on the PGA Tour. Except Woods turns 37 on Dec. 30.
This is not to say that Woods will not win another major. He may win two in 2013 and two more the year after that. It is certainly more promising for him that he came close three times in 2012, which was a departure from his middling performances in 2010 and 2011. But the cracks in the armor are breaches apparent to all at this point. Even as he finished the second round at the P.G.A. Championship in August -- with a chance to take the outright lead -- what did Woods do?
He three-putted the 18th green.
It may all be a part of the process that Woods likes to talk about these days. Every revival has its incremental steps forward. And every retreat has its incremental steps backward.
In time, we will see which way Woods is marching. But throughout this year, it was odd to watch him fall apart so routinely because he was the one golfer you once could routinely count on to do the opposite.
* * *
Upon Further Review, the Truth Is Revealed
By John Branch
The following story is not true -- yet.
After years of experimenting and increasing the use of instant replay to weed out errors in officiating, several American sports will no longer be held live, but entirely on replay, to ensure that there were no mistakes.
In the N.F.L., for example, the hope is to eliminate delays caused by the persistent huddling of indecisive officials and the frequent departure of the referee to watch the replay in a private sideline viewing chamber.
Now, the game itself will be the replay.
''We have to work out some of the logistics,'' N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''For example, how do we have a replay before we have an actual game? But we're optimistic that we'll solve it. We're the N.F.L.''
Replay reviews, while appreciated by those who want near perfection in officiating, have been the source of much frustration for N.F.L. fans in particular. Many insist that they have better things to do than waste an extra two or three minutes of a Sunday after having already set aside their day in three-, six- or nine-hour increments.
The N.B.A. may create a model for others to follow. It will initially conduct all its games at empty arenas, then re-enact them in front of fans so officiating crews will not be met with surprises.
Any last-second baskets, or long jump shots made with a toe imperceptibly close to the 3-point line, will have been rehearsed. That will prevent the familiar momentum-killing sight of officiating crews bent over tiny sideline replay monitors while fans around the globe are forced to wait, as if they have time for that.
Now, the outcome of the play will be known before it happens.
''We really feel this will speed up our games,'' N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said in a statement.
Major League Baseball finds replay useful mostly in determining whether a ball lands over a large fence or in front of the fence, or on one side of an enormous neon-colored pole or the other. Rather than relying on replay, baseball is considering whether to gauge home runs by watching to see if the ball goes over the large fence and on one side of the nearest enormous neon-colored pole.
The N.C.A.A. may eliminate the use of instant replay. The outcomes of the games are not important, an N.C.A.A. spokesman said, because what matters most is that the athletes get a good education. Human fallibility is a worthy lesson, he added.
The impetus for all the changes came from last summer's United States Olympic track and field trials, during which Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh tied in the 100 meters. No number of replays -- or discussions over the exact location of the torso -- could discern a winner.
The delay was not minutes, but days. Finally, the answer came straight from the schoolyard: a do-over.
Alas, a runoff never happened; Tarmoh declined to take part.
Still, it made sports executives realize that if we simply had the final answer in the first place, fans would not be forced to wait for the result. The solution, in front of us all along, is simply to make replay the game itself.
* * *
What Might Have Been, or Still Could Be
By Barry Bearak
When Derrick Rose went down with a torn-up left knee, it was hard not to contemplate the career he might never have: the lost Most Valuable Player awards and the never-to-be-won N.B.A. titles. The Chicago Bulls announcer Stacey King liked to describe the electrifying Rose as ''too big, too strong, too fast, too good.''
Was he now to add ''too sad''?
The post-Michael Jordan Bulls were a dismal, star-crossed team, suffering a decade of mediocrity until a gust of good luck blew their way. In the 2008 draft, the team vaulted from the No. 9 spot to No. 1, hitting the jackpot when they had only a 1.7 percent chance to win the lottery.
Rose, a 19-year-old point guard and Chicago native, became the rookie of the year and then an All-Star, then the league's youngest M.V.P. ever, leading the Bulls to the N.B.A.'s best record two years in a row. He was also likable in a Windy City sort of way: not a preening, partying prima donna, but a guy who squared his big shoulders and quietly went about his business.
In the strike-shortened 2011-12 season, Rose missed 27 of the 66 games with injuries that seemed to skip up and down his lower extremities: the foot, the ankle, the knee, the groin. But he was healthy in April when the playoffs began, and in the first game of the opening series, the top-seeded Bulls were easily beating the Philadelphia 76ers.
Then, with 1 minute 22 seconds left and Chicago ahead by 12, Rose moved toward the hoop with the ball, cutting right in his customary whirligig fashion, though this time awkwardly planting his left foot on the floor. He heard a pop. He had torn the anterior cruciate ligament.
Rose writhed in pain. The arena went silent. And the long months of wondering began. Would a reborn Derrick Rose with a rebuilt knee ever again come gyrating through the lane -- too big, too strong, too fast, too good -- looking every bit as amazing as the original?
* * *
No Place to Hide When a Ball Comes Back
By Tyler Kepner
It was an ordinary pitch, 91 miles per hour on the outside corner, not much different from the 1,651 others Brandon McCarthy had thrown last season. From the press box at Oakland Coliseum that September afternoon, it looked for an instant like a routine single to center by the Angels' Erick Aybar.
But the ball never got there. It crashed into the back of McCarthy's head. He tried to escape its path but could not react in time. McCarthy, then with the Athletics, crumpled to the ground. It was a moment that made you wince -- ''It was really hard to see,'' his opponent, Dan Haren, said after the game -- but McCarthy sat up almost instantly, running his hands through his hair, and he walked off the field. Disaster averted.
Again, a wrong assumption, or nearly so. McCarthy was taken to a hospital for a precautionary examination, and soon, he was in surgery. The line drive had fractured his skull and caused an epidural hemorrhage and brain contusion. McCarthy recovered but missed the rest of the season.
The next month, across the bay in San Francisco in Game 2 of the World Series, another tall and lanky right-hander threw another pitch destined for danger. Doug Fister of the Detroit Tigers took a liner off the right side of his head from the Giants' Gregor Blanco. Yet Fister did not even fall. After an exam on the mound, he kept pitching.
''Got a little bump,'' he said by his locker, casually. ''Other than that, there's nothing.''
The events were harrowing reminders of the destructive force of a batted ball, and the varying consequences of two hits that may look the same. McCarthy was lucky to be alive; Fister was luckier still. But a first-base coach in the minors, Mike Coolbaugh, was killed by a foul ball in 2007. Now all base coaches in the minors and the majors wear helmets.
After Fister was struck, the Fox broadcaster Tim McCarver raised on the air the possibility of pitchers' wearing helmets. Some players lampooned the idea on Twitter, but in December, ESPN reported that baseball was working with six companies designing protective headgear for pitchers. A selection of prototypes could be available in time for spring training.
Hitters have been slow to accept safer, oversize helmets, and a padded pitcher's cap would seem to face similar resistance. Pitchers depend on precise, repetitive movements and will be wary of anything disruptive. Besides, nobody wants to look funny.
Comfort, style and safety are often competing interests. Sometimes, though, they could come together to save a pitcher's life. Let's hope it happens soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Lance Armstrong was stripped of his seven Tour titles as part of the fallout from Usada's doping case. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS) (SP6)
Loyola players after beating Maryland to win the title in May. The Greyhounds were not ranked in the preseason top 20. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GRETCHEN ERTL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Many Shone, and a Few Stumbled: Clockwise from above left: Usain Bolt winning the 100 meters in 9.63 seconds, an Olympic record and the second-fastest time ever run
Gabby Douglas of the United States after becoming the first black gymnast to win the individual all-around Olympic gold medal
Russia's synnchronized swimming team performing its team free routine on the way to winning gold
Carli Lloyd (10) being swarmed by her teammates after scoring the United States' first goal during a 2-1 victory against Japan
Matthias Steiner of Germany, who withdrew from the super heavyweight competition after dropping a 196-kilogram weight on himself during the snatch portion of the event. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHANG W. LEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JOSH HANER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
JED JACOBSOHN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP6-SP7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (89%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CANCER (89%); SPORTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (76%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (76%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); LAWYERS (74%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); ATHLETES (71%); OLYMPICS (71%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (70%); MONEY LAUNDERING (70%); CHARITIES (70%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (70%); VOLUNTARY HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS (70%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (55%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (91%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



960 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; FIELD NOTES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: On Bended Knee? Not Always

BYLINE: By VINCENT M. MALLOZZI

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to fevered pitches spoken from the heart, December is truly the month for marriage proposals. With 2012 wrapping up, a year when neither recession nor high wind and water got in the way of those seeking memorable ways of prompting a ''yes!'' from the targets of their affections, we searched high and low for the most interesting proposals submitted this year to the Weddings/Celebrations pages of The Times.
One involved a groom who made his case for marriage while soaring above the North Pole, and another came quietly from down on bended knee. While one proposal from an out-of-work New York Giant involved impeccable timing, others were not exactly delivered on cue. In fact, one was popped a bit too soon, and one not soon enough. Another was hurried along, and still another came and went in a flash mob -- proving that ''Can you top this?'' remains a notion that seems to build with each passing year.
CHRISTINE KIM, ROBERT FERRIS 
In the middle of a flight from Kennedy Airport to Hong Kong, their plane above the North Pole, Christine Kim was awakened by Robert Ferris, who slipped her an earbud that was connected to an iPad sitting on the tray in front of them. Playing on the screen in their dark and quiet cabin was a video put together by Mr. Ferris that showed some of the wonderful times they had shared during five-and-a-half years of dating. The video culminated with Mr. Ferris stealing a kiss from Ms. Kim on a chair lift in Park City, Utah, followed by the would-be groom appearing on the screen and asking his intended, ''Will you marry me?''
''I wanted to propose on the plane because I feel like our trips are what always kept us together,'' explained Mr. Ferris, who married Ms. Kim on Oct. 6. ''Most people dread long flights, but I don't mind them at all, because when we're on the plane, it's just us -- no interruptions.''
AMANDA PARKER, JORGE MEJIA
Jorge Mejia told Amanda Parker last year that on May 18 -- Ms. Parker's birthday -- they would be going to an event in Miami Beach at the recently opened center for the New World Symphony. Instead, Mr. Mejia led her to the center's rooftop garden, where she encountered a bench with a plaque bearing the inscription ''Jorge and Amanda Mejia.''
She then turned around and saw Mr. Mejia down on one knee, holding a ring. It apparently did the trick: they were wed on Oct. 27.
REBECCA HELWIG, WILL BEATTY
Will Beatty, a 6-foot-6 320-pound offensive lineman who had been playing for the New York Giants, was technically without a job when he proposed to Rebecca Helwig in June 2011 -- a point in time when the N.F.L. lockout was still in place. Ms. Helwig suggested they marry on Feb. 11, 2012. Mr. Beatty soon returned to the football field and helped the Giants win the Super Bowl -- one week before he married Ms. Helwig.
''Who knew she would turn out to be such an amazing wedding planner?'' Mr. Beatty said.
ALLISON LECLAIRE, CRAIG JONES
Last June, Allison Leclaire was seated in Bryant Park waiting to meet her boyfriend, Craig Jones, and his boss when a group of dancers began flailing about on the lawn in front of her to ''The Way You Make Me Feel'' by Michael Jackson. Suddenly, the dancers -- a flash mob -- swelled in number, as did the stream of recognizable faces, both friends and relatives, passing by Ms. Leclaire, whose bemused look turned to one of shock. Before she could recover her composure, a 140-piece high-school marching band, blasting out ''Hey! Baby,'' suddenly swung by and settled in front of Ms. Leclaire, who by now was sobbing uncontrollably.
Just then, a uniformed man clutching a baton -- Mr. Jones, who had hired the dancers and the band -- emerged from the band's ranks, removed his pith helmet and said, ''I didn't know how to show how much I loved you, so I thought I'd bring some friends to show you.''
Then, in a heartbeat, Mr. Jones dropped to one knee and said: ''Before I met you I didn't think I could love someone for the rest of my life. Now I know I can. Would you please, please, marry me?'' They are to be wed on March 23.
ESTHER KLEIN, MATTHEW WOLF
At a Brooklyn restaurant, Matthew Wolf got down on one knee and took Esther Klein's hand. Instead of proposing, however, he handed her his glove and proceeded to tie his shoelace.
A short time later, a slightly stunned Ms. Klein arrived at Mr. Wolf's apartment to find candles lining the hallway, lavender rose petals covering the floor and snowflake-shaped white and blue lights hanging on the walls. At the end of the hallway was a table covered in fake snow, and in the center of it sat a giant dark-chocolate ring with a white-chocolate diamond. Its inscription said, ''Will you marry me?''
Mr. Wolf pulled a box with a real ring from the center of the chocolate one and, this time, proposed for real.
''I was shaking,'' said Ms. Klein, whose wedding to Mr. Wolf was on April 22. ''I couldn't unzip my coat, and then I said, 'Yes.' ''
NIKKI PFARR, JOSHUA GROCHOW
Nikki Pfarr first learned that she would be engaged not from her soon-to-be fiancé, Joshua Grochow, but from Mr. Grochow's mother, Dr. Louise B. Grochow, who had called to congratulate her before Mr. Grochow actually proposed. Immediately afterward, Ms. Pfarr called Mr. Grochow and suggested that he ''officially propose.'' The couple tried to drive to an overlook on West Tiger Mountain outside Seattle, but the road was closed, and Ms. Pfarr got her proposal in the parking lot of a supermarket. Their wedding took place on June 16.
JENNY FRITZ, MICHAEL SCHREIBER
Michael Schreiber proposed to Jenny Fritz in her favorite city, New Orleans. He asked the question in a bustling Jackson Square, and Ms. Fritz began crying. But before her tears dried, she found herself among unexpected company.
A shoeshine man approached the couple and relentlessly hawked his services. ''Michael looked at him and said: 'I just proposed to my girlfriend, and she said yes. I'm feeling pretty shiny,' '' recalled Ms. Fritz, who was wed to Mr. Schreiber on Oct. 27. ''The guy wouldn't leave, though. He's in some of our pictures. Then, drunk sorority girls came over. We had about 20 seconds to ourselves.''
NANCY COFFEY, TIMOTHY NAGLER
On New Year's Eve 2011, Timothy Nagler proposed to Nancy Coffey after a round of golf in Palm Springs, Calif. He told Ms. Coffey, who loves wildflowers, that he had found some particularly pretty ones in a field. She followed him to the spot, but instead of wildflowers she found an Oriental rug and many vases of roses.
''I have been on a magic carpet ride with you for the last 18 months, and I want it to continue,'' said Mr. Nagler, whose wedding to Ms. Coffey was on June 2.
MICHELLE WU, CONOR PEWARSKI
Conor Pewarski surprised Michelle Wu with a late-night proposal on Dec. 17, 2011, under the Christmas lights in Cambridge Common across from Harvard Law School, from which Ms. Wu graduated.
The couple were returning from dinner and Mr. Pewarski told Ms. Wu that his sister, an undergraduate at Harvard, had lost her wallet and needed money.
''We walked through the park and there was no one around,'' Ms. Wu recalled. ''Then suddenly there was music and lights, and my two younger sisters emerged from behind bushes.''
Ms. Wu was led to a park bench, where the words ''Will You Marry Me?'' were spelled out with Skittles on a granite park bench while ''La Vie en Rose'' played on a portable stereo.
''I was completely floored,'' said Ms. Wu, who married Mr. Pewarski on Sept. 8.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TOM BLOOM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); AIRPORTS (71%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); STREET ART (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); MIAMI, FL, USA (51%) NEW YORK, USA (76%); UTAH, USA (70%); FLORIDA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (76%); HONG KONG (55%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



961 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1559 words

HEADLINE: Shedding Door Pulls, Mumbai Taxis Rattle Into History

BYLINE: By DAVID SHAFTEL

 BODY:
MUMBAI, India
ON a recent evening on Marine Drive here, Amrit Jaiswal, clad in an all-white taxi driver's uniform, sat in his weathered black-and-yellow Premier Padmini cab waiting for rush hour.
On his dashboard sat a shrine to the Hindu goddess Durga. A plastic likeness of the monkey-god Hanuman hung from his rearview mirror, and the entire interior was covered in floral-patterned gray velour. As the sun sank behind the Arabian Sea, Mr. Jaiswal flipped on a red dome light that gave his cab's interior the louche atmosphere of a bordello.
To Mr. Jaiswal, 49, who owns his 1994 model Padmini after years of loan payments, the car represents freedom. ''The car is strong, it gets good mileage, parts and maintenance are cheap, and if it breaks down you can find a mechanic anywhere,'' said the mustachioed taxi driver, who wore several days' worth of gray stubble. As for the decorations, he said, ''I want it to look attractive to the customer.'' 
With its boxy body and stubby tail fins, the dependable but modest Padmini taxi was once ubiquitous here, as synonymous with motoring in Mumbai as blaring horns and cows blocking traffic. But under a 2008 government decree aimed at modernizing the taxi fleet by requiring cabs older than 25 years to be retired, the ''Pad'' as it is known, is slowly going the way of New York City's Checker cabs. Soon they will exist only in the minds of nostalgic commuters.
Mr. Jaiswal, who paid around $2,900 for his car and license, will feel the loss acutely. ''I'm proud to be the owner of this car, but I've got only seven years to go,'' he said, adding that he could not afford a modern car to replace it. ''It's scary.''
With 58,000 Padmini taxis on the streets in the car's mid-1990s heyday -- countless others were driven by private citizens -- Mumbai had the highest density of one car model of any city in the world, according to A. L. Quadros, general secretary of the Mumbai Taximen's Union. Today there are only 9,000 left, he said, most of them ramshackle but still reliable.
Some in Mumbai are not sentimental about the car's slow disappearance. ''It represented all that was wrong with India's highly regulated socialist economy,'' said Hormazd Sorabjee, the editor of AutoCar India magazine. ''The quality was appalling, yet there was an eight-year waiting list to get one.''
A taxi driver, Manoj Yadav, 45, said that his 1995 Padmini was in ''A-1 condition,'' but conceded that ''most customers prefer the new cars.'' These include the fuel-efficient Tata Indica and Hyundai Santro small cars and the Maruti Suzuki Omni microvan.
Though the Padmini's notoriously sticky door handles have a habit of popping off in customers' hands, and passengers can often see the road through holes in the floorboard, the Padmini still has its adherents, primarily because it is slower and therefore perceived as safer than zippy newer models. And because the Padmini was the first car many Indians rode in, it stirs up wistful feelings.
The Padmini has its roots in a 1952 license agreement that allowed Premier Automobiles of India to produce a version of the Italian Fiat 1100, or Millecento, said Maitreya Doshi, Premier's managing director.
In socialist-leaning post-independence India, the auto industry was tightly controlled. ''The government believed we were making a luxury product, and there was an attitude that it really should not be part of India's growth story,'' Mr. Doshi said. Changes to prices, production or to the car itself had to be cleared by the government, he added, and requests were routinely refused. Production was capped at 18,000 cars a year, he said, though demand was much higher and taxi sales were subsidized.
The government insisted that the car become indigenous. By 1973 Fiat was out, and the Millecento became the Premier President until a bureaucrat objected to the name, which he said denigrated a government office. From 1974 until production finally wound down in 2000, the car has been the Padmini, named for a 14th-century Rajput princess. To the company's chagrin, many still call it a Fiat.
The remaining Padminis that patrol Mumbai's roads today are essentially Fiat 1100Ds, circa 1963.
Until the early '80s, only one type of car in each class was produced in India. There were the small, sporty cars made by Standard Motor Products, which were indigenous versions of a British Standard-Triumph, and the bulbous Hindustan Ambassador, a copy of a 1956 Morris Oxford III that is still favored by many government officials. The four-door Millecento was the car for those aspiring for the middle class. (An ad for a later model announced: ''Go-getters! Achievers! Decision-makers! Your Car Is Waiting.)
In the early '70s, Mr. Doshi said, taxi drivers began switching from Ambassadors to Padminis because they were more fuel-efficient and easier to drive. ''It became the preferred brand, although there was not much to compare it to,'' he said.
Padminis excelled as taxis in Bombay -- as the city was known until 1995 -- because they had a large trunk and their 1.1-liter 4-cylinder engine provided a good power-to-weight ratio, Mr. Doshi said. ''It had lots of cargo applications,'' he added. ''So you'd see film crews with five people inside, their paraphernalia on the roof, stuff in the trunk and this little car coughing and sputtering and carrying on, able to pull the load.''
A few modifications were made, with the most exciting ones coming in the mid 1970s. ''When we started offering a floor shift and bucket seats it created so much hype in the city,'' Mr. Doshi said. ''They were perceived as the differentiator between the young and cool and the old and fuddy-duddy,'' he said. ''And, as a sort of 'wow' accessory, we used to offer seat belts.''
Air-conditioning and diesel engines were offered in the mid '80s. (Since 2002, all metered taxis have been converted to run on natural gas.)
Because the Padmini was such a basic car, it allowed owner-drivers to make their own modifications, or to decorate the cars as they saw fit.
''It was a simple car,'' said Adil Jal Darukhanawala, editor of the ZigWheels car magazine. ''No electronics, no frills. It was like an Indian version of the Ford Model A, and you could modify it to your heart's content.''
Loud patterns adorned the interiors, and the bodies and windows were covered in decals announcing the driver's home neighborhood, nicknames like ''Night King'' or ''Big Boss'' or titles of Bollywood songs.
The first ominous sign for the Padmini came in 1983 with the introduction of the compact Maruti 800 ''people's car,'' which owed more to Japanese engineering, courtesy of a Suzuki joint venture, than to Indian state planning. After import restrictions were loosened in 1991, foreign cars began to stream into India, making the Padmini seem like a dinosaur.
Mr. Doshi, the Premier executive, said the end was hastened when cabdrivers started replacing their worn-out motors with Kubota marine engines that coughed black smoke and gave the Padmini a reputation as a serial polluter. Production finally ceased in 2000.
The demise of the Padmini has had a corollary effect on the ancillary industries that grew to support it. ''There were people who were experts in interiors, or repairing worn-out parts, or fixed cars that had been in accidents,'' said Manohar Mistry, whose shop, Swami Arts, creates custom decals made by layering bright-colored stickers. Now, repairs are done by the dealerships, he said.
Mr. Mistry said his business had declined to less than half what it used to be. ''The new cars come completely decorated with whatever details you want,'' he said, showing a reporter a photo of his magnum opus, a rear window-obscuring decal depicting a 17th century warrior-king prying open the mouth of a lion. As vision-restrictive as they may be, such stickers are no impediment to the cars' passing an annual inspection.
Since Padmini taxis started disappearing, collectors looking for parts have also suffered. ''Fewer and fewer cars are coming to scrap,'' said Karl Bhote, a member of the Fiat Classic Car Club of India. ''It is unbelievable how much things have dried up in the last two years.''
But Mr. Bhote said that as the Padmini taxi disappeared, he had seen a surge of enthusiasm among collectors. ''Nostalgia is kicking in,'' he said.
Because of the dearth of parts, Rony Vesuna, a vintage car collector, has put as much effort into accumulating the spare Fiat and Premier parts that fill his Mumbai apartment as he has into restoring his 1973 Premier President.
Mr. Vesuna, who also has six Fiats, said he'd like to see a few restored Padminis remain on the road as heritage taxis.
''The Fiat, especially the taxi, is an iconic figure for Bombay,'' said Mr. Vesuna, who like many Mumbai residents still uses the old name for the cars. ''I want to pick up a taxi or two for my collection before they are all phased out.''
Still, it's doubtful that commuters will mourn their demise for long. ''I happened to hail a Padmini the other day,'' said Mr. Darukhanawala, the ZigWheels editor. ''The fact that you can hardly open the rear door to get in and out makes you realize how archaic it is,'' he said, alluding to the infamous inoperative door handles.
''On an emotional level it's terrific, because to a certain generation it was the attainable car of our dreams. But life moves on and the benchmark changes.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: COUNTDOWN: Mumbai is phasing out older taxicabs like the once-ubiquitous Premier Padminis, left. Above, Amrit Jaiswal will have to replace his 1994 model within seven years. (AU1)
PERSONALIZED PADMINIS: Clockwise from upper left, Manohar Mistry and his son Samir make colorful decals that decorate many Mumbai taxis
though the stickers may obscure outward vision, cab inspectors let them be
Askok Kumar's cab has a tiger-print motif
a car collector, Rony Vesuna, stockpiles spare parts for his 1973 Premier President and six Fiats
 welding a damaged Padmini. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KUNI TAKAHASHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AU2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (78%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MUMBAI, INDIA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (78%) INDIA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



962 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 4967 words

HEADLINE: New York in 2013

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Introduction
If the phrase ''annus horribilis'' had not already worked its way into the language -- thank you, Queen Elizabeth II -- some New Yorker thinking deep, year-end thoughts would surely have coined it for 2012.
Not that everything went wrong, of course.
Fans were happy when Brooklyn got a new sports and entertainment center, not to mention a basketball team.
Subway passengers were happy when an underground connection opened between the No. 6 line at Bleecker Street and the B, D, F and M lines at the Broadway-Lafayette stop. It doesn't take much. 
Mitik, a baby walrus orphaned in Alaska, was happy when he brought his William Howard Taft good looks to the New York Aquarium. What, you don't see the resemblance?
''Jersey Shore'' was canceled. Enough said.
So what about 2013? In this feature, reporters from The Times's Metro desk summarize the developments they expect to cover next year.
Predictions are as chancy as New Year's resolutions, but some things are certain.
The subway fare will go up. (In March, to $2.50 a ride.) Large sugary sodas will disappear. (Also in March, unless a judge blocks the mayor's ban.) Bike sharing will begin. (In May, unless the program is delayed yet again.) The Taxi of Tomorrow will go into service. (In December, unless it, too, takes the slow lane.)
In Albany, four men in a room will be making the decisions, not the customary three, because suddenly the State Senate will squeeze two leaders alongside Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo and the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver.
And the old year will cast a long shadow over the new.
Our memories of the twin calamities of 2012 -- the school shootings in Newtown, Conn., and Hurricane Sandy -- may fade, as memories do. But gun control is sure to be debated in 2013. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg is promising to go nationwide with his crusade against illegal guns, spending his own millions to counter the gun lobby.
And low-lying neighborhoods will be rebuilt by hard-pressed homeowners, while task forces and commissions debate how to keep the city safe from the next monster storm.
Mayoral politics will dominate the local headlines. Mr. Bloomberg's many would-be successors will not have the personal fortune he spent to win office ($174 per vote in 2009). Which of them will end up on the November ballot: Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker? Joseph J. Lhota, who is leaving the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to look into running as a Republican? Raymond W. Kelly, the police commissioner?
It is enough to make you think about buying a crystal ball. One smaller than the Wicked Witch of the West's costs $1,000 at a shop on Centre Street in Chinatown, close enough to City Hall and Wall Street for policy makers and traders alike to stroll by at lunchtime.
If they did, the clerk behind the counter would tell them that a crystal ball feels fatigue from the energy that goes into predictions. You have to bring it back from time to time for something that, in a year like 2012, sounds singularly appropriate. ''Deep cleaning,'' she called it. -- JAMES BARRON
Albany
When lawmakers return to the New York State Capitol in January, the first order of business for Albany's three men in a room will be finding an extra chair.
For years, just three people -- the governor, the Assembly speaker and the Senate majority leader -- have made most major decisions in Albany, controlling the state budget and negotiating all major legislation. But in an unprecedented development, the Senate in the coming year is to be led by two men. So Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo; the speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat; and the Republican Senate leader, Dean G. Skelos, will be joined by Jeffrey D. Klein, the leader of a schismatic group of dissident Senate Democrats who have pledged to share decision-making with the Republicans despite their ideological differences.
The leaders will confront a host of familiar issues, including a debate over whether to raise the minimum wage, a push to overhaul campaign-finance laws and a proposal to expand casino gambling.
But lawmakers also face two new problems, caused by recent crises. Hurricane Sandy severely damaged infrastructure in New York City and on Long Island, and its economic toll could further strain the state's shaky finances. And this month, the mass shooting in Newtown, Conn., has brought the issue of gun control to the forefront.
Mr. Cuomo, a Democrat, is planning to propose a package of new gun laws in his State of the State address in January. His proposals are likely to provide the first major test of the new Senate leadership arrangement, as Republicans in the chamber have traditionally resisted gun-control measures. -- THOMAS KAPLAN
City Hall
Après Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who?
That is the big question as Mr. Bloomberg concludes his 12th and final year at City Hall, though voters will have other choices to make in 2013, as well. Openings are likely for a new comptroller, a new public advocate, four new borough presidents and about two dozen new City Council members, thanks to term limits or bids for other offices.
In the mayor's race, the strong favorite two years ago was Representative Anthony D. Weiner. But a ''sexting'' scandal prompted Mr. Weiner to resign. Then the city comptroller, John C. Liu, emerged as a dark-horse pick. But a campaign fund-raising scandal damaged his prospects. Then came a flurry of rumors involving everyone from Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly to former Gov. Eliot Spitzer to Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton, back to Mr. Weiner again.
Such speculation hints at a general unease among some political insiders regarding the current slate of expected candidates. After all, the next mayor will face knotty issues in finance, labor, education and other areas.
Among Democrats, the likely leading candidates are Christine C. Quinn, the City Council speaker, whose base includes pro-Bloomberg Democrats; William C. Thompson Jr., a former comptroller, whose base includes African-Americans; and Bill de Blasio, the public advocate, whose base includes labor groups. (Mr. Liu is also likely to run.)
Among Republicans, the front-runner could be Joseph J. Lhota, who is stepping down as chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority to explore a bid. Others running or considering running include Adolfo Carrión Jr., a former Bronx borough president; John A. Catsimatidis, who owns the Gristedes supermarket chain; Tom Allon, a newspaper publisher; and George T. McDonald, the president of the Doe Fund.
For now, at least. -- DAVID W. CHEN
Congress
The Congressional delegations from New York, New Jersey and Connecticut face at least one daunting challenge. So far, the governors from these storm-battered states have identified about $82 billion in damage resulting from Hurricane Sandy. As the new year approaches, the region's lawmakers in Washington have been focused on trying to pass a $60.4 billion aid package and getting the money flowing.
The concern among the senators and representatives is that as the storm fades from memory, Congress will feel less compelled to confront its consequences fully. This means that New York, New Jersey and Connecticut could end up being shortchanged, with Washington ultimately providing far less than the states say they need to rebuild and prepare for future storms.
The coming year will also offer plenty of political intrigue -- at least for members of New Jersey's Congressional delegation. Fellow Democrats from New Jersey to Washington have increasingly wondered whether Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, 88, will retire at the end of his current term. Several prominent New Jersey Democrats -- including Mayor Cory A. Booker of Newark and Representative Frank Pallone Jr., a 13-term congressman from Monmouth County -- have expressed clear interest in running for his seat in 2014. But at the same time, no one wants to do anything to antagonize Mr. Lautenberg, a proud and strong-willed man who some Democrats believe may try to hold on to his seat if he believes he is being pushed out before he is ready to go. -- RAYMOND HERNANDEZ
Courts
Cyrus R. Vance Jr., the Manhattan district attorney, is up for re-election for the first time, in 2013. His first term saw a lot of attention focused on two difficult cases: the dropped prosecution of Dominique Strauss-Kahn and the acquittal of two city police officers on rape charges. But Mr. Vance was given credit in The New York Law Journal for significantly increasing the office's felony conviction rate since taking the job. He has also ramped up his office's attempts to prosecute white-collar crime, a category dominated by federal prosecutors. He is running unopposed so far in an office that has historically granted tremendous electoral benefits to the incumbent.
In Brooklyn, meanwhile, Charles J. Hynes, the district attorney, will face at least two opponents in the Democratic primary in the new year. Kenneth P. Thompson, a prominent trial lawyer and former federal prosecutor, and Abe George, a former assistant district attorney in Manhattan, have announced they are challenging him. Mr. Hynes has been in office more than 20 years, but he has recently come under fire for failing to investigate sexual abuse claims in ultra-Orthodox Jewish communities and for his office's mishandling of cases that sent innocent people to prison.
The city's courts will see many high-profile trials, including Mr. Vance's prosecution of Pedro Hernandez in the killing of Etan Patz, the 6-year-old boy who disappeared on his way to a SoHo bus stop in 1979.
After decades during which other suspects were investigated, Mr. Hernandez made a surprise confession to prosecutors and the police last spring. But his lawyer said the confession was the byproduct of mental illness, and Mr. Hernandez has recanted. It appears no other evidence has emerged, so the trial could hinge on whether a jury believes the videotaped confession.
There could be a rare death-penalty trial in Federal District Court in Brooklyn this coming year. Ronell Wilson was convicted of killing two undercover police officers and sentenced to death in 2007. But an appellate court tossed out the sentence -- though not the conviction -- because of a prosecutor's error. Now the federal government is bringing another case arguing for Mr. Wilson's death; it will revisit the gruesome details that shocked the city several years ago, unless a judge rules that Mr. Wilson is mentally disabled and not subject to capital punishment.
Manhattan's Federal District Court will also see prosecutions in political corruption and terrorism cases.
Two allies of John C. Liu, the city comptroller, are scheduled for trial in February in what prosecutors say was an illegal campaign-finance scheme. The defendants, Jia Hou, Mr. Liu's former campaign treasurer, and Xing Wu Pan, a fund-raiser, have pleaded not guilty. Mr. Liu, a Democrat, has not been charged with wrongdoing.
Larry B. Seabrook, a former councilman, is to be sentenced in January for orchestrating a scheme to use a network of nonprofit groups to funnel hundreds of thousands of dollars in city money to relatives, friends and a girlfriend.
Three defendants extradited from Britain face trial in terrorism cases later in the year. Mostafa Kamel Mostafa, an Islamic preacher, has been charged with conspiring in a 1998 kidnapping of American and other tourists in Yemen; and two other men are charged with conspiring in Al Qaeda's 1998 bombings of two United States Embassies in East Africa, attacks that killed more than 200 people. All three have pleaded not guilty.
In another widely watched case, Mansour J. Arbabsiar, an Iranian-American who pleaded guilty in a plot to kill the Saudi ambassador to the United States, is scheduled to be sentenced in February.
And then there is the bizarre case of Gilberto Valle, a New York City police officer who faces trial next month in a plot to kidnap, cook and eat women; he has pleaded not guilty.
-- RUSS BUETTNER, MOSI SECRET and BENJAMIN WEISER
Development
Will 2013 be the year that some of the city's most prominent corporations decide to relocate, prompting the development of new skyscrapers in Midtown and downtown Manhattan?
The Durst Organization and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey are still hunting for tenants for 1 World Trade Center, and the developer Larry Silverstein will be forced to stop construction on 3 World Trade Center unless he comes up with a tenant soon. His other tower at the site, 4 World Trade Center, could be finished by the end of the year.
The Related Companies is also looking for a major corporate tenant for Hudson Yards, for its second big office tower. That would allow the company to begin building a platform over the rail yard, a shopping mall, a cultural institution and several residential towers. The No. 7 subway extension may have a long-promised ribbon-cutting ceremony in December, but the public probably won't be able to travel through it until the following spring.
In Brooklyn, the first of 15 residential towers is under construction at Atlantic Yards. In Queens, the Related Companies and Monadnock Construction are expected to break ground shortly on Hunters Point South, which promises to be the largest affordable-housing complex nationally in more than three decades.
The city is rushing to complete the ''Midtown East'' rezoning while Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg remains in office, which would allow developers to build skyscrapers near Grand Central Terminal. The administration is also trying to revamp plans for Willets Point, Queens, to allow a major shopping mall next to CitiField, rather than the ''next great neighborhood'' that the mayor once promised.
Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo will have to be much more specific in the new year about his plans for bringing full-scale casino resorts to New York if he wants to continue to get approval by the State Legislature. One of the big questions is whether a casino will be permitted in Manhattan, a dream for Las Vegas gambling operators. Expect tens of millions to be spent on lobbying campaigns for and against. -- CHARLES V. BAGLI
Economy
Even before Hurricane Sandy blew through, it was clear that the next year would be about rebuilding.
The metropolitan area's economy has not recovered fully from the long recession. Construction has not resumed its old pace. And the big banks on Wall Street have been cutting thousands of jobs as they restructure for a period of slow growth.
Now, the region is waiting for tens of billions of dollars in aid from the federal government to repair the damage that the storm caused to transit lines, bridges and boardwalks. The sooner Congress approves that financing, the sooner it will set off a burst of activity and create hundreds, and possibly thousands, of new jobs.
The stimulative effect could be enough to shake the local economy out of the doldrums that it slipped into in the second half of 2012. After outperforming the rest of the nation in the bounce-back from the recession, New York City has seen its recovery start to sputter.
By November, the annual growth rate of private-sector jobs in the city had slowed to 2 percent, just a little higher than the national rate, 1.8 percent. Wall Street has been no help: the securities industry, which has traditionally pulled New York out of recessions by hiring and paying big bonuses, shrank slightly in 2012.
And sometime in 2013, the city's stature as the world's capital of finance is due to take another blow when a company based in Atlanta, Intercontinental Exchange, completes its takeover of the New York Stock Exchange. -- PATRICK McGEEHAN
Education
The Bloomberg administration has one more year to remake the city's school system.
Undoubtedly among the goals: working to get new charter schools approved; closing and reopening as many poorly performing schools as possible; and trying to see a new teacher-evaluation system approved and put in place. Much of the work will hinge on relations with the New York City teachers' union.
As the 2013 mayoral race comes to a boil, Exhibit A in any candidate's case for educational clout will be the endorsement of the union's president, Michael Mulgrew. The United Federation of Teachers stayed mum in the last two mayoral contests and is feuding with City Hall over several issues, including teacher performance and charter schools. But events are queued up for a natural pairing this time, maybe even ahead of the Democratic primary: the union has no contract, and would-be successors to Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg thirst for the financial and electoral support of its 200,000 members.
Teachers, parents and others can expect Hurricane Sandy's impact to reach into 2013, with damaged schools, displaced students and school days to make up -- three full days scheduled in February and a half-day in June. How storm-related absences affect pupils' grades is just one factor, along with new curriculum standards called Common Core, which many expect will be a drag on test results for students in the third through eighth grades, who will sit for the state's standardized math and English exams in the spring.
And as officials push remaining bits of the Bloomberg administration's education agenda, observers will be on the lookout for top administrators at the Education Department to begin peeling off for the private sector. -- AL BAKER
Environment
After more than four years of increasingly polarizing debate, New York is poised to decide whether to allow drilling for natural gas in the Marcellus Shale using the extraction process known as fracking. That decision had been expected in 2012 but was postponed pending further study of the potential impact of drilling on the environment and public health. State regulators are now scheduled to complete their environmental review and proposed regulations by February. Then Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo, considering both environmental concerns and the jobs that the gas industry would provide, is expected to say whether New York will approve fracking, and under what conditions. (A decision to go forward would surely set off litigation from environmental groups, which could mean further delays.)
In the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy, state and city officials have convened commissions and task forces to plan for future storms. These groups will consider measures like strengthening the building code and installing sea gates to block storm surges. Also under study is an overhaul of storm response and preparation by the state's power utility companies, and toughening the city's aging transportation infrastructure.
Efforts to contain the harmful effects of climate change may also gather urgency. New York is one of nine Northeastern and mid-Atlantic states in the cap-and-trade system known as the Regional Greenhouse Gas Initiative, which participants say has succeeded in lowering emissions and funneling millions of dollars to energy-efficiency programs. A crucial decision facing the states in 2013 is whether to set a stricter ceiling on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power providers.
-- MIREYA NAVARRO
Health
It may seem as if Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's soda ban has already begun, because the debate has been so noisy. But restrictions on the sale of sugary drinks of more than 16 ounces in movie theaters, restaurants, stadiums and other places will actually go into effect in March, barring a successful legal challenge. The city's health department will then be able to study whether forcing people to drink smaller portions will bear out the theories of Dr. Thomas A. Farley, the health commissioner, who believes that changing the environment is the best way to change behavior.
The four New York City hospitals that were hit hardest by Hurricane Sandy -- Bellevue Hospital Center, the country's oldest public hospital; Coney Island Hospital, also a public hospital with a mission to serve the poor; NYU Langone Medical Center, a prominent academic medical center; and the Manhattan hospital operated by the Department of Veterans Affairs -- will be phasing in full services, if all goes according to plan. And residents affected by the storm will continue to worry about the consequences to their health, both mental and physical.
The September 11th Victim Compensation Fund will begin making awards. And the Affordable Care Act will continue to kick in, with consequences for New Yorkers. The law's newly created insurance exchanges, state markets that are supposed to make it easier for individuals and small businesses to afford health insurance, will begin enrollment in the fall. Hospitals expect to benefit from an increase in patients covered by insurance, which may help to buoy some faltering institutions.
-- ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS
Hurricane Recovery
For many New Yorkers who live in Flood Zone A -- areas like the edges of Staten Island, the Rockaway Peninsula in Queens and Coney Island and Red Hook in Brooklyn -- life will continue to be defined by Hurricane Sandy well into 2013.
Residents will find that rebuilding is far more than a matter of picking up hammers and nails. They will have to grapple with enormous questions of how to rebuild -- quickly or with an eye to a future storm -- and for many that decision will be dictated by outside factors. Homeowners may find themselves stymied by banks reluctant to give loans for homes situated in harm's way, and by soon-to-be redrawn flood maps, which may make it too costly, or even impossible, to get insurance in some areas.
Even as they address the physical challenge of rebuilding storm-damaged homes, schools and streets, many will also be weighing a monumental question: Should they stay or go? The year ahead may bear witness to demographic changes in areas affected by the storm as some people give up and others -- smelling opportunity -- swoop in. -- SARAH MASLIN NIR
Immigration
In the realm of immigration, New York City has often appeared to be dancing to its own tune. As other parts of the country have clamped down on immigrant populations, the city's elected officials, led by a pro-immigrant mayor, have thrown open the door even wider to the foreign-born, regardless of immigration status.
Immigrants make up more than one-third of the city's population, and their numbers will likely continue to grow. The city will continue to offer an extraordinarily wide array of immigrant services intended to help ease assimilation. And more of the country may start to follow New York's lead.
After President Obama won 71 percent of the Latino vote, he said he would make the comprehensive overhaul of the nation's immigration system -- in particular, a bill to legalize 11 million illegal immigrants -- one of the first items on his agenda in the coming year. Since the election, Republicans leaders have urged their party to adopt a new posture toward immigrants and to support some sort of legislation to fix illegal immigration. There is no telling whether they will achieve their goals. But as this debate gathers momentum in the new year, New York will find itself with plenty of new company on the dance floor. -- KIRK SEMPLE
New Jersey
Democrats had been spoiling for a heavyweight fight: Booker vs. Christie. But even with Cory A. Booker, the mayor of Newark, out of the ring, Gov. Chris Christie's re-election bid will still be the state's big story in the new year.
New Jersey is one of only two states to have regular elections for governor in 2013. Mr. Christie's popularity soared, even among Democrats, after Hurricane Sandy. And as Mr. Booker weighed his options, Mr. Christie was able to win a big labor endorsement -- even after cutting public union benefits soon after he came into office.
But Democrats note that the share of voters who said they would re-elect Mr. Christie topped out at 53 percent after the storm, and was below 50 percent before his fleece became famous. The state has roughly 700,000 more Democrats than Republicans. And Mr. Christie oversees a grim economy: the unemployment rate, at 9.6 percent, is still about 2 points higher than it is nationally, and it is among the country's highest.
Rating agencies have warned that the governor's budget is structurally unsound: He bet on 8.4 percent economic growth for the current fiscal year, but even before the storm, it was coming in at about 0.1 percent, with especially sluggish income- and sales-tax revenues. That will force ugly, midcycle budget cuts starting in January, as the sunny governor set aside relatively little in the state's rainy-day fund.
The question is which Democrats dare challenge him. Raising the money to run is daunting. Mr. Christie will be able to pull in donations from national Republicans, who are not likely to sit idly while one of their most promising presidential contenders fights for his political future. -- KATE ZERNIKE
Parks
The city's parks will continue their recovery from Hurricane Sandy, which caused them an estimated $540 million in damage. Particularly devastated were the beaches in the Rockaways in Queens, where two-thirds of the five-mile Boardwalk was torn from its concrete stanchions.
But the new year will also see several long-awaited openings.
In Prospect Park in Brooklyn, the $74 million Lakeside project will finally open in late fall. It will feature two ice rinks and a cafe overlooking the park's scenic lake. In the summer, one rink will double as a water playground, while the other will become a roller rink.
In Brooklyn Bridge Park, Pier 2 opens later in the year with courts for basketball, handball and bocce. In addition, there will be a full in-line skating rink, a swing set, concessions and bathrooms.
Also in Brooklyn, a historic Coney Island carousel, the only survivor of two dozen wooden carousels that once whirled there, will reopen by summer. The 1919 B&B Carousell, which the city acquired in 2005, has been undergoing a restoration for years in Ohio. It will be placed in a newly constructed pavilion building under the Parachute Jump in Steeplechase Plaza.
In Central Park, Tavern on the Green, which closed three years ago after 75 years in business, is expected to reopen in the fall. The city is restoring the building, at Central Park West and 67th Street, to its smaller, historic footprint. Two restaurateurs from Philadelphia will operate the new place, which will be more casual than the old Tavern, catering to parkgoers and neighborhood residents. But it will serve up serious fare by the chef Katy Sparks, whose résumé includes Bobby Flay's Mesa Grill, Quilty's and the Quilted Giraffe. -- LISA W. FODERARO
Police
Coming off a year of historic lows in the city's murder rate and undeniable highs in his job-approval ratings among residents, Police Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly will be a hot topic in 2013: Will he stay or go once a new mayor is crowned? And if he goes, who will step in to replace him? One name that will almost certainly resurface is that of former Police Commissioner William J. Bratton, who is now chairman of Kroll, a security consulting firm.
Regardless of whether 2013 is his final year as commissioner, Mr. Kelly will seek to cement his legacy as an aggressive crime fighter who made New York City safer. To do so, he must continue to drive down violent crime in 2013, or at least hold the line on 2012's murder rate. So Mr. Kelly is not likely to pull back on the department's ''stop, question and frisk'' practices or hot-spot policing strategies like Operation Impact, in which rookie officers, paired with veterans, are deployed strategically to neighborhoods seeing surges in crime. That will mean more news articles detailing friction between Mr. Kelly and civil rights leaders who believe officers unfairly target black and Latino residents for street stops.
Readers should also look for articles examining the balance between privacy and public safety as the Police Department continues to harness new technology to combat global terrorism, drug and weapons trafficking, and sex crimes. It is a good bet that 2013 will be peppered with news about how cybersleuthing solved or thwarted crimes. -- WENDY RUDERMAN
Transportation
What may be the most anticipated development in the city's transit system in 2013 was supposed to have happened in 2012. In May, the Transportation Department says, the city's long-awaited bike-share program will finally begin. Originally planned for July 2012, the program was delayed: first by software problems, and then by flood damage to its equipment during Hurricane Sandy. When the bikes do start rolling, look for renewed debate over the viability of cycling as a public-transportation option in the city -- a linchpin of the Bloomberg administration's curbside legacy.
Another Bloomberg initiative, a near-uniform cab fleet filled with so-called Taxis of Tomorrow, is also slated to begin before the mayor leaves office. The vehicle, a Nissan NV200, is expected to be phased in over three to five years starting in late 2013, supplying riders with phone chargers, transparent roof panels and ''lower annoyance'' horns, the city said. The vehicle has been criticized for not being a hybrid, or wheelchair-accessible without modifications.
For subway, bus and railroad riders, the nation's largest transportation network will begin 2013 without a long-term leader, as Joseph J. Lhota, the chairman of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, steps down to explore a run for New York City mayor. His replacement will face a spate of difficult decisions in 2013, particularly concerning how to rebuild the system in the aftermath of Hurricane Sandy. Officials have said to expect regular train service to the Rockaways in Queens to return by the spring. But it would be a surprise if the South Ferry station in Lower Manhattan reopened in 2013. -- MATT FLEGENHEIMER
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY STEPHEN KRONINGER) (MB6
 MB7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (87%); MAYORS (87%); FIREARMS (85%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); CITIES (72%); BASKETBALL (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (70%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (70%); LOBBYING (69%); POLITICS (69%); GUN CONTROL (67%); POLICE FORCES (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); SHOOTINGS (62%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (62%); HURRICANE SANDY (62%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (62%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (61%); SOFT DRINKS (51%); JUDGES (51%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH II (72%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (53%); ANDREW CUOMO (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



963 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: Beyond the Temporary Fix

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I appreciate Tyler Cowen's creativity in his approach to solving our financial mess (''Fiscal Symbolism Can Go a Long Way,'' Economic View, Dec. 23). But we need much more. 
Let's assume that there is no agreement and that tax rates return to pre-Bush levels. After that, however, let's make those rates decline for wealthier Americans if unemployment goes down, and raise those rates further if unemployment climbs. That way, these so-called job creators can lower their tax rate by creating jobs.
Let's also raise the debt ceiling, but only with a commitment to end deficit spending -- say, in four years. Then the midterm and next presidential elections can be fought over how to fully balance the budget in 2017. Rather than settling for ever-increasing debt and temporary tax agreements, we need to achieve real and enduring fiscal stability.
Gary Wolff
Castro Valley, Calif., Dec. 24
Letters for Sunday Business may be sent to sunbiz @nytimes .com.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHI BIRMINGHAM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (90%); JOB CREATION (88%); BUDGETS (88%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); DEBT CEILING (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (52%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



964 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 496 words

HEADLINE: A Buildup Of Building Permits

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
The good news: Building permits for new developments are back on the rise, which means much-needed apartments should soon follow. The bad news: It still won't be enough. 
For the year through October, the city issued permits for 40 new residential buildings in Manhattan, for a total of 2,287 new units, according to the latest census numbers. That's up 15 percent compared with the same period in 2011, but still far from normal. In Brooklyn the numbers are a bit higher. Permits were filed for 2,756 units through the first 10 months of the year, as opposed to 1,522 for all of last year. Even so, the numbers haven't kept pace with demand.
''We have a dire need for new product and it's not coming fast enough,'' said Gregory J. Heym, the chief economist for Halstead Property and Brown Harris Stevens. Although the drop in permits started to reverse itself last year, and the increase this year is noteworthy, Mr. Heym said, ''it's not going to be a recovery until we get back to the long-term average, which is closer to 4,000 or 5,000 new units a year.''
Manhattan permits peaked in 2008 at 9,700 units before Lehman Brothers collapsed and construction loans began drying up. The lack of financing brought construction to a halt, and so-called shadow inventory -- projects that were started before the credit valve was turned off -- was completed and sold or turned into rentals. Rising demand and a scarcity of new apartments have created something of a rush on new luxury condominiums in choice New York neighborhoods, with some buyers signing contracts for spaces even before they are built.
And the trend could become more pronounced. ''With such a low level of inventory,'' Mr. Heym said, ''you're going to see prices start to rise more rapidly at some point, because there just won't be enough apartments to go around.''
Developers are beginning to find ways to finance future projects, but major challenges remain. Land costs are still high, and more upfront equity is required than before, Mr. Heym said. Permits don't always immediately translate to new units, either. The lag time between the filing of a permit and the selling of an apartment is typically six months to two years. There is also the question of how many of the units will be designated as rentals and how many for sale.
Just 58 residential buildings are expected to open next year in Manhattan, not counting any in Harlem and Upper Manhattan, with a total of 2,474 new units, according to projections by the Corcoran Sunshine Marketing Group, which tracks new development. That's the highest number since 2007. That year, 8,052 new units came on the market.
''It just goes to show you that all the naysayers were very, very wrong,'' said Mr. Heym, pointing out that at the beginning of the downturn, some skeptics expected stalled projects to come back at some point and flood the market. ''That hasn't happened,'' he said.
Given the scarcity of apartments now, he added, one might almost wish it would.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUILDING PERMITS (91%); CONSTRUCTION (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); TRENDS (78%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); CENSUS (72%); NEW PRODUCTS (68%)

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (56%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



965 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: The Rental Tide Subsides

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
Apartment rents in New York City have been rising rapidly for several years, but signs are now emerging that the market has hit a speed bump and is finally shifting to a slower gear.
Manhattan rents have been dropping, with the average price $3,368 in November, $76 less than in October and the third consecutive month prices have declined, according to Citi Habitats.
While some of this may be seasonal -- the rental market tends to soften during the winter -- the pace of rental growth year over year has also slowed. According to Streeteasy.com, median rents are 1.5 percent higher than one year ago, a marked drop from the 10 percent increase that rents posted two years ago and the 15 percent of three years ago. Inventory is also up, with 13,618 Manhattan apartments for rent in November, a 21 percent increase over November 2011, Streeteasy found. 
''The market is at an all-time high,'' said Gary L. Malin, the president of Citi Habitats. ''How much higher can it go in an economy that is still weak in many sectors? To think that the rental market could keep having record-breaking growth is just not realistic.''
In addition to the economy, factors creating a softer rental market include greater numbers of first-time homebuyers and resistance from tenants, who are leaving when their leases expire rather than pay higher rents.
Those rents are pushing first-time buyers to the market, as are historically low mortgage rates. These buyers typically want studios and one-bedrooms, and over the past year, studio rents have shot up nearly 5 percent while one-bedrooms have posted 3.4 percent increases, according to Streeteasy. In comparison, rents for two-, three- and four-bedrooms have declined over the past year.
As more first-time buyers have entered the picture, sales of studios and one-bedrooms have jumped four percentage points, exceeding 52 percent of the market in the third quarter compared with a year ago. Meanwhile, rentals of studios and one-bedrooms dropped six percentage points, to 70 percent of the market, according to data from Miller Samuel.
''We have clearly seen a wave of people trying to become buyers, and this is taking the steam out of rentals,'' said Mr. Miller, of Miller Samuel. ''There hasn't been a flood of buyers, however, because lending standards remain tight. All things being equal, if lenders weren't being so irrationally conservative, you would have a housing boom at the expense of the rental market.''
The number of vacant rental units to come on the market has also surged, indicating so-called market churn, whereby tenants search for more affordable apartments rather than renew their leases. In November, 3,634 vacant rental units came on the market in Manhattan, a 41 percent increase from the same period last year, according to Miller Samuel.
But while the rental market is slowing, prices are unlikely to drop much. ''This is not a bubble that is going to burst,'' Mr. Malin said. ''That would mean that the numbers we have seen were being propped up by something artificial, but that isn't true.''
Instead, Mr. Miller said, rents are likely to ''bump along at this very high level, but not increase or decrease precipitously, at least over the next year.''
Sofia Song, the vice president for research of Streeteasy, feels a ''litmus test'' coming up. ''What will be interesting is to see what happens this spring and early summer, when the market should be at its peak,'' she said. ''If rents don't rise then, it could mean they are simply too high.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); STATISTICS (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (79%); HOUSING MARKET (79%); HOME PRICES (79%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (91%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



966 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; DEBRIEFING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Less Familiar, but Still a SoHo Presence

BYLINE: By CONSTANCE ROSENBLUM

 BODY:
BACK in the late 1960s and the 1970s, when SoHo had the intimacy and cohesion of a small village, nearly everyone knew Shael Shapiro. The slight, gentle architect with a flair for rescuing decaying buildings was a fixture in this onetime center of the city's art world. Even well into the 1980s, as SoHo began morphing into an outdoor shopping mall, his was a familiar face.
''When he walked down the street, dozens of people would stop to say hello or ask him some question,'' said his wife, Roslyn Bernstein, who arrived on the scene only when the two married in 1984 but was immediately struck by her husband's local celebrity. ''Everyone knew his name.'' 
Mr. Shapiro's renown along these cobblestone blocks, whose emptying industrial structures were fast being converted to live-work spaces for the young and creative, was no accident. Notably, he helped shape the legislation that in 1971 allowed artists to legally occupy the newly available lofts. He wrote the first version of the relevant section of the state's Multiple Dwelling Law, and his suggestions were incorporated into the zoning regulations drafted by the City Planning Commission. Wearing his architect's hat, Mr. Shapiro guided the transformation of hundreds of dilapidated loft buildings in Lower Manhattan. And as an original occupant of 80 Wooster Street, where the movement to allow artists to own their own spaces was born in 1967, he helped mastermind the first conversion of an industrial loft building to residential use in the city.
In 1973 Mr. Shapiro moved across the street, to a building that he and four other families bought for $150,000, and he has been there ever since.
''People say, you were so smart to buy in SoHo when lofts were so cheap,'' said Mr. Shapiro, now 71 and semiretired, his hair, beard and mustache silvered by the years. ''If I'd been smart, I would have bought five buildings and held onto them, because even after the zoning change, no one really anticipated how the neighborhood would evolve. We were just a bunch of people looking for a place to live and work. We didn't know what would happen, or even if we'd be able to stay.'' Yet for him the risk was worth it. ''I was strong, I borrowed the money. It was money I didn't have. But if I lost it, I figured, well, I was young.''
According to Roberta Brandes Gratz, a former member of the city's Landmarks Preservation Commission and the author, most recently, of ''The Battle for Gotham: New York in the Shadow of Robert Moses and Jane Jacobs,'' Mr. Shapiro deserves significant credit for the survival of SoHo's cast-iron trove.
''He had extraordinary vision and foresight to be interested in these buildings and realize that they could be converted in a way that would save them,'' Ms. Gratz said. ''He understood their value and understood that creative people might want to live in them. That he accomplished this when the specter of the Lower Manhattan Expressway was hanging over the neighborhood makes his achievement even more remarkable.''
SoHo today is, of course, a transformed place. The city's cutting-edge art scene has long since migrated to West Chelsea, replaced by tidal waves of shoppers and gawking out-of-towners. While the stately 19th-century cast-iron buildings have survived, thanks to the Landmarks Preservation Commission, struggling young artists have long since been shoved aside to make way for millionaire bankers. Sitting beneath the double-height ceiling in his living area, Mr. Shapiro pondered the economic shifts that accompanied and fueled these changes. ''People are surprised at how cheap things used to be,'' he said. ''At 80 Wooster, the price was $105,000 for the whole building. Today, you can't get a closet for that.'' A top-floor loft, he said, just sold for $6 million.
Part of him misses the yeasty energy of the '70s, when galleries were sprouting everywhere and luminaries like Allen Ginsberg and Andy Warhol roamed the bumpy streets. ''Today, there are different people behind the walls,'' Mr. Shapiro said. ''There's more money, more elegant spaces. You know your neighbors less.''
Still, he's not complaining. Longtimers like him have benefited financially from the changes. And some blocks of SoHo look as if they'd been preserved in a time capsule. ''When you walk the streets,'' Mr. Shapiro said, ''they're physically much the same, so it feels like less of a change. It would be nice if the clock had stopped 30 years ago. But I'm still happy to be here.''
He is also gratified that the area has provided a template for reuse of buildings emulated the world over. Just the other day, he offered a tour of local streets to a group of developers who hope to repurpose buildings in their native China.
Mr. Shapiro, who was born in East New York, Brooklyn, and studied architecture at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, in Troy, N.Y., arrived in SoHo in 1967; a $5,000 gift from an aunt allowed him to buy the 2,500-square-foot space on 80 Wooster Street where he would help make local history. And if ever a building ignited the transformation of a neighborhood, this tan brick structure with soaring arched windows was that building. A onetime cardboard factory, it was bought in 1967 by the Lithuanian-born George Maciunas, celebrated as the creator of the area's first successful artists' co-op. Mr. Shapiro and Ms. Bernstein, a professor of journalism and creative writing at Baruch College, brings this era alive in their book ''Illegal Living: 80 Wooster Street and the Evolution of SoHo,'' published in 2010.
''The place was a mess,'' Mr. Shapiro recalled of his quarters, so much so that he built himself a little room and covered it with sheets of polyethylene so he could live there while tackling the ruins around him. The building where Mr. Shapiro lived next was no prize, either. ''That was a mess, too,'' he said. ''The floors were rotten. There were no toilets and hardly any electricity.'' Today, one of the few reminders of those days is the creaky, hand-operated ''ring and bring'' elevator that Mr. Shapiro dutifully escorts to the ground floor when visitors arrive.
Even though SoHo's makeup has changed over the decades, Mr. Shapiro still sees familiar faces on its streets, although fewer than in earlier years. And as he talks about SoHo past, present and future, he takes pains to point out that there was nothing inevitable about the emergence as a creative enclave of the gritty district once known as Hell's Hundred Acres. ''In the early '60s,'' he said, ''the City Club issued a report titled 'The Wasteland of New York,' identifying this area as ripe for urban renewal. If the artists hadn't moved in and made this such a vibrant community, and if the political climate hadn't been ripe, the buildings would definitely have been torn down.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PERFECTLY LEGAL: Shael Shapiro on the roof of his building, at 85 Wooster Street. Mr. Shapiro was an original occupant of 80 Wooster, where the movement to allow artists to own their own spaces was born. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); CITIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); ZONING (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); WRITERS (67%); LAND USE PLANNING (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



967 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; FEEDBACK; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 743 words

HEADLINE: A Debate Over Co-ops

 BODY:
The ''Getting Started'' column last week, ''The Formidable Co-op Approval Process,'' described how to prepare for the screening process that is common when buying a cooperative apartment in New York City. Following are edited excerpts of reader comments from nytimes.com:
When I bought my NYC co-op, I thought the board approval process was excessive. The first few years -- at the height of the real estate boom -- my neighbors and I would get annoyed when the co-op board would turn down prospective buyers willing to pay high prices (raising the value of all our apartments!) just because their finances weren't quite stellar. Then the financial crisis hit. Not a single foreclosure in our co-op building with almost 400 units. 
Lynne, NYC
I bought my first co-op a couple of years ago. These have been the worst two years of my life. Co-op boards behave like they are tsars or tsarinas. I find they think of an owner as nothing but a checkbook. I was treated with more respect and had my problems with my apartment fixed much easier when I was a renter. ...The management company is useless because they work for the board. Nobody, but nobody in this equation, has your best interests at heart. I would strongly recommend that, if possible, you do not buy a co-op. DFK New York City
I have heard of boards like this, but, having served on two boards and having known several board members in other buildings, I find this extremely unfair. Being a board member is extremely time-consuming. Most of the meetings are involved solely with keeping expenses down while maintaining or improving the building. ... I find co-ops to be the best real estate investment because of the restrictions, which ferret out people who can't afford to own in the long term. HKGuy
NYC
The board interview has long been held to be the next most serious thing to the Last Judgment. In recent years, I have encountered legal opinions that any decision to reject an applicant should be made prior to the time that they are actually seen by the board.
If a person is not approved after an interview, it can be claimed that their apparent race or ethnicity was motivation. Persons deemed unsuitable should not be granted interviews. Instead, it is recommended that interviews be a sort of ''welcome to the co-op'' meeting and a reiteration of house rules, etc. David, Flushing
Two words: Sponsor Unit. They are rare and hard to find, but sponsors (the original owners of the building) often keep apartments when the building is converted to co-op and can sell to whomever they want. No board approval. I am the ideal tenant -- quiet, clean, friendly, and respectful of my neighbors. But I do not make six figures. No board would ever approve me because I'm not raking in the big bucks. But I saved my 20% down and purchased a sponsor unit in a nice co-op. Catherine T., NYC
Stay clear of co-ops! Who wants to live like that? Really.
Anna, New York, NY
Earlier this year, my wife and I had to submit almost this much documentation for a one-year lease (!) in a co-op building in New York. Renting and buying in this city are becoming almost indistinguishable. Opaquiosq,
New York, NY
Well, in NYC at least the people who object to you renovating your unit have a property interest in the same building. Getting a building permit in San Francisco requires that there be no objections from anyone remotely near you -- owner, neighbors and renters alike, plus any assorted strangers that happen to wander in to the hearing for whatever reason.
The process is set up that way so that no official or officeholder ever has to have a decision they once made attached to their background. After all, then we might know what that official or officeholder actually thinks. That would be transparent democracy, wouldn't it?
John McGlynn
San Francisco
It's true that co-ops suffered only a handful of foreclosures after the 2008 crisis. The reason is quite simple. 99% of co-ops require 20% down payment, and most all require the unit to be a primary residence.
Even if a co-op allows a pied-à-terre, the unit can't be rented out, so the buyer can clearly afford an additional residence -- they are not stretching to meet their obligations.
If it's 'home' and you're vested to a minimum of 20%, you're not walking away. If you run into financial trouble you sell. Regarding the letters of recommendation, you write the exact number of letters the application asks for. Not more, not less. ...
daniel oconnell
brooklyn

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY PHIL MARDEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (91%); REAL ESTATE (91%); APPROVALS (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); FORECLOSURE (71%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



968 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; CALENDAR; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 3339 words

HEADLINE: New Jersey

 BODY:
A guide to cultural and recreational events in New Jersey. Items for the calendar should be sent at least three weeks in advance to njtowns@nytimes.com
Comedy
NEWARK Prudential Center ''Disorderly Conduct,'' with Jeff Dunham, ventriloquist and stand-up comedian. Dec. 30 at 5 p.m. $50. Prudential Center, 165 Mulberry Street. prucenter.com; (973) 757-6000.
RED BANK Count Basie Theater John Oliver, comedian, actor and writer. Jan. 12 at 8 p.m. $19.50 to $32.50. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; countbasietheatre.org.
RED BANK Two River Theater ''LOL: Laugh Out Loud Comedy Show,'' featuring a lineup of comedians. Jan. 12 at 8:30 p.m. $40. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. (732) 345-1400; trtc.org. 
Film
MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center Reel History Film Series: ''Dogtown and Z Boys,'' a 2001 documentary directed by Stacy Peralta. Jan. 8 at 7:30 p.m. $7. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main Street. (732) 528-9211; algonquinarts.com.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''Giselle in HD,'' showing of a performance at the Royal Opera House, featuring the Royal Ballet. Jan. 1 at 2 p.m. $7 and $12. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. statetheatrenj.org; (732) 246-7469.
RAHWAY Hamilton Stage ''Raiders of the Lost Ark: The Adaptation,'' screening and discussion with the director, Eric Zala; Chris Strompolos, an actor; and Alan Eisentock, author of the book ''Raiders!'' Jan. 4 at 8 p.m. $20. Hamilton Stage, 360 Hamilton Street. (732) 499-8226; ucpac.org.
RED BANK Count Basie Theater ''West of Memphis,'' documentary directed by Amy J. Berg. Jan. 7 at 7 p.m. $8. Film for Thought: ''Neil Young's Journeys,'' screening with a special guest, the director, Jonathan Demme. Jan. 8 at 7 p.m. $8. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. countbasietheatre.org; (732) 842-9000.
For Children
EAST RUTHERFORD Izod Center Disney on Ice presents ''Treasure Trove.'' Jan. 2 through 6. $25 to $85. Izod Center, 50 Route 120. izodcenter.com; (201) 935-3900.
JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Animation,'' exhibition at the Liberty Science Center. Hands-on activities and crafts. Through Jan. 4. Free with admission, $12.50 and $16.75. Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; lsc.org.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center ''Jack Hanna's Into the Wild Live,'' live animals. Jan. 6 at 1:30 and 4:30 p.m. $25 to $35. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
Music and Dance
MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts ''Harp Ensemble Concert.'' Jan. 6 at 4 p.m. $5 and $10. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. metc.org; (973) 377-2982.
MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center ''Viennese New Year,'' with the Orchestra of St. Peter by the Sea. Jan. 6 at 3 p.m. $25 to $48. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main Street. algonquinarts.com; (732) 528-9211.
MONTCLAIR Wellmont Theater The Hold Steady and Lucero, rock bands. Dec. 31 at 9 p.m. $35 and $45. Wellmont Theater, 5 Seymour Street. (973) 783-9500; wellmonttheatre.com.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center Neil Berg's Broadway Song and Dance. Jan. 5 at 8 p.m. $39 to $59. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''Salute to Vienna,'' featuring the Strauss Symphony of America and dancers from Kiev-Aniko Ballet of Ukraine. Dec. 31 at 6 p.m. $47 to $107. ''The Planets,'' winter festival concert with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, featuring the American Boychoir and led by Jacques Lacombe. Jan. 5 at 8 p.m. $20 to $88. For tickets: (973) 624-3713; njsymphony.org. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. (732) 246-7469; statetheatrenj.org.
NEWARK Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center ''The Planets,'' winter festival concert with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, featuring the American Boychoir and led by Jacques Lacombe. Jan. 4 and 6. $20 to $88. Prudential Hall, New Jersey Performing Arts Center, 1 Center Street. For tickets: njsymphony.org; (973) 624-3713.
RAHWAY Hamilton Stage Good Music, Mostly Classical Concert Series: Simone Dinnerstein, pianist. Jan. 10 at 8 p.m. $39. Hamilton Stage, 360 Hamilton Street. (732) 499-8226; ucpac.org.
RAHWAY Union County Performing Arts Center Jay Black and Gary Puckett. Jan. 12 at 8 p.m. $45 to $75. Union County Performing Arts Center, 1601 Irving Street. (732) 499-8226; ucpac.org.
RED BANK Count Basie Theater New Year's Eve with Southside Johnny and the Asbury Jukes. Dec. 31 at 9 p.m. $34.50 to $99. ''Sole Sanctuary: A Hoofer's Meditation on the Art of Tap,'' with Savion Glover, tap dancer, actor and choreographer. Jan. 11 at 8 p.m. $29.50 to $55. Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street. (732) 842-9000; countbasietheatre.org.
SOUTH ORANGE South Orange Performing Arts Center Midtown Direct Rep in the Loft: ''In the Book Of,'' contemporary reimagining of ''The Book of Ruth,'' by John Walsh. Jan. 13 at 7 p.m. $15. South Orange Performing Arts Center, 1 Sopac Way. (973) 313-2787; sopacnow.org.
STANHOPE The Stanhope House Andrew W. K., singer-songwriter. Dec. 29 at 7 p.m. $20. Milo Z's Funky New Year's Eve Celebration, funk band. Dec. 31 at 6 p.m. $40. The Stanhope House, 45 Main Street. (973) 347-7777; stanhopehousenj.com.
TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum The Firey Strings Company, jazz. Jan. 5 at 8 p.m. $10. Classical Sundays at the Puffin: David Glukh, trumpeter, and Liya Petrides, pianist. Jan. 6 at 4 p.m. $10. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 Puffin Way. (201) 836-3499; puffinculturalforum.org.
Seasonal
CAPE MAY Cape May Stage, The Robert Shackleton Playhouse ''A Tuna Christmas,'' by Ed Howard, Joe Sears and Jaston Williams. Through Dec. 30. $15 to $35. Cape May Stage, the Robert Shackleton Playhouse, Bank and Lafayette Streets. capemaystage.com; (609) 884-1341.
CAPE MAY East Lynne Theater Company ''Ghosts of Christmas Past Trolley Rides,'' presented by the East Lynne Theater Company and the Mid-Atlantic Center for the Arts and Humanities. Through Dec. 30. $7 and $10. East Lynne Theater Company, 500 Hughes Street. (866) 280-9211; eastlynnetheater.org.
MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center ''Simply Diamond New Year's Eve,'' Neil Diamond tribute concert. Dec. 31 at 6 and 9 p.m. $50. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main Street. algonquinarts.com; (732) 528-9211.
MORRIS TOWNSHIP Bickford Theater ''A Tuna Christmas,'' by Ed Howard, Joe Sears and Jaston Williams. Through Dec. 30. $20 to $45. Bickford Theater, 6 Normandy Heights Road. (973) 971-3706; morrismuseum.org.
MORRISTOWN Mayo Performing Arts Center ''First Night Morris 2013,'' music, theater, dance and more. Dec. 31 at 7 p.m. $20. Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street. (973) 539-8008; mayoarts.org.
RED BANK Two River Theater ''A Wind in the Willows Christmas,'' musical based on the children's classic. Through Dec. 30. $20 to $67. Two River Theater, 21 Bridge Avenue. (732) 345-1400; trtc.org.
Theater
ENGLEWOOD Bergen Performing Arts Center ''The Little Prince,'' production using puppets, live actors and original music, written by Rick Cummins and John Scoullar, based on the book by Antoine de Saint-Exupéry. Jan. 12 at 4 p.m. $29 to $49. Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street. (201) 227-1030; bergenpac.org.
LONG BRANCH New Jersey Repertory Company, Lumia Theater ''Esther's Mustache,'' written and directed by Laurel Ollstein. Through Jan. 13. $25 to $40. New Jersey Repertory Company, Lumia Theater, 179 Broadway. njrep.org; (732) 229-3166.
MADISON F.M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University ''Trelawny of the Wells,'' romantic comedy by Arthur Wing Pinero. Through Dec. 30. $10 to $80. F. M. Kirby Shakespeare Theater, Drew University, 36 Madison Avenue. njshakespeare.org; (973) 408-5600. MANASQUAN Algonquin Arts Center ''Freedom Train,'' story of Harriet Tubman presented by TheatreWorksUSA. Jan. 9 at 10 and 11:45 a.m. $9. Algonquin Arts Center, 173 Main Street. algonquinarts.com; (732) 528-9211.
MILLBURN Paper Mill Playhouse ''The Sound of Music,'' musical with music by Richard Rodgers, lyrics by Oscar Hammerstein II and book by Howard Lindsay and Russel Crouse. Through Dec. 30. $34 to $114. Paper Mill Playhouse, 22 Brookside Drive. (973) 376-4343; papermill.org.
NEW BRUNSWICK State Theater ''Joseph and the Amazing Technicolor Dreamcoat,'' presented by the Middlesex County Department of Parks and Recreation and Plays in the Park. Through Dec. 30. $7. State Theater, 15 Livingston Avenue. statetheatrenj.org; (732) 246-7469.
WEST ORANGE Luna Stage ''Supernatural,'' staged reading by Candace Kelley, Audrey Kelley and Gilda Rogers that explores the lives of six women who are forced to confront their natural hair and themselves. Jan. 5 at 7:30 p.m. $20. Luna Stage, 555 Valley Road. (973) 395-5551; lunastage.org.
Museums and Galleries
ASBURY PARK Heaven Art and Antiques ''Assembled,'' assorted two- and three-dimensional works. Through Jan. 6. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Mondays, noon to 5 p.m.; Fridays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 7 p.m. Heaven Art and Antiques, 721 Cookman Avenue. (732) 774-4799.
BOUND BROOK Hamilton Street Gallery ''Requiem (A Passage of Influence),'' works by 16 artists. Through Jan. 3. Hamilton Street Gallery, 6 Hamilton Street. (732) 748-2092; hamiltonstreetgallery.com.
CLINTON Hunterdon Art Museum ''Disparate Roots: Contemporary Collage,'' seven artists. Through Jan. 6. ''Ghost of a Dream,'' works from discarded lottery and scratch-off tickets and other detritus of popular culture, by Adam Eckstrom and Lauren Was. Through Jan. 6. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Hunterdon Art Museum, 7 Lower Center Street. hunterdonartmuseum.org; (908) 735-8415.
DEMAREST Mikhail Zakin Gallery ''Elements,'' group exhibition of contemporary artists. Through Jan. 12. Mondays through Fridays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Mikhail Zakin Gallery, 561 Piermont Road. tasoc.org; (201) 767-7160.
ENGLEWOOD Mark Gallery ''America: Big, Bold and Beautiful,'' exhibition featuring paintings by America Martin. Jan. 12 through March 2. Mondays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Mark Gallery, 11 Grand Avenue. (201) 568-6275; mark-gallery.com.
FORT LEE The Fort Lee Historical Museum ''Universal Studio Centennial Exhibit: From Fort Lee to Universal City,'' the birth of Universal Studios in Fort Lee in 1912 documented in archival photos and studio artifacts. Through Jan. 27. Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m.; Wednesdays, 7 to 9 p.m. Fort Lee Historical Museum, 1588 Palisade Avenue. thefortleehistoricalsociety.org; (201) 592-3580.
HAMILTON Grounds for Sculpture ''Ming Fay: Canutopia,'' mixed media. Through Feb. 1. ''Heaven, Hell and the History of Punch,'' works by Robert Taplin. Through April 10. $8 to $12; members and children under 5, free. Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. Grounds for Sculpture, 18 Fairgrounds Road. groundsforsculpture.org; (609) 586-0616.
HOBOKEN Monroe Center for the Arts ''Interconnected,'' photography exhibition featuring the work of Pauline Chernichaw, France Garrido and Roslyn Rose at the hob'art gallery. Through Dec. 30. Free. Monroe Center for the Arts, 720 Monroe Street; hob-art.org.
JERSEY CITY Liberty Science Center ''Art of Science Photo Exhibit,'' 45 images selected by Emmet Gowin, photographer, and Joel Smith, curator of photography at the Princeton University Art Museum. Through Feb. 28. Free with admission, $12.50 and $16.75. Liberty Science Center, 222 Jersey City Boulevard. (201) 200-1000; lsc.org.
MADISON Museum of Early Trades and Crafts Lionel Train Collection, miniature exhibition of a local resident's collection. Through mid-February. ''Orphan to Apprentice: Child Indentures as Social Welfare,'' on government apprenticing of poor children through the 1800s. Through March 1. $3 and $5; members and children under 6, free. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Museum of Early Trades and Crafts, 9 Main Street. metc.org; (973) 377-2982.
MAHWAH Mahwah Museum ''Les Paul in Mahwah,'' exhibition about the longtime resident, inventor, musician and self-taught engineer. Through June 1. $3 to $5; members and children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Mahwah Museum, 201 Franklin Turnpike. (201) 512-0099; mahwahmuseum.org.
MONTCLAIR Montclair Art Museum ''Saya Woolfalk: The Empathics,'' sculptures based on objects in the museum's collection of Native American art, videos on large outdoor monitors and a performance. Through Jan. 6. ''Georgia O'Keeffe in New Mexico: Architecture, Katsinam and the Land,'' Kachina dolls and 30 paintings and works on paper. Through Jan. 20. ''Patterns, Systems, Structures: Abstraction in American Art.'' Through May 19. $12; seniors and students, $10; members and children under 12, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Montclair Art Museum, 3 South Mountain Avenue. (973) 746-5555; montclairartmuseum.org.
MORRIS PLAINS The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms ''Styling an American Family: The 1910s at Gustav Stickley's Craftsman Farms,'' fashions from Syracuse University's Sue Ann Genet Costume Collection. Through Jan. 6. The Stickley Museum at Craftsman Farms, 2352 Route 10 West. stickleymuseum.org; (973) 540-1165.
MORRISTOWN Macculloch Hall Historical Museum ''Thomas Nast: President Maker and Campaign Breaker,'' illustrating presidential campaigns from 1864 to 1884. Through June 1. $6 to $8; children ages 6 to 12, $4; children under 5, free. Wednesdays, Thursdays and Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Macculloch Hall Historical Museum, 45 Macculloch Avenue. (973) 538-2404; maccullochhall.org.
NEW BRUNSWICK Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum ''Art=Text=Art,'' over 100 American drawings, prints, works on paper and artists' books from the collection of Sally and Wynn Kramarsky. Through Jan. 6. ''Le Mur at the Cabaret des Quat'z'Arts,'' installation of about 50 sheets from the changing display of drawings, poems and newspaper clippings mounted on a wall of a Parisian cabaret from 1894 to 1905. Through Feb. 24. ''Prints by Mary Cassatt: In the Company of Women,'' 23 works. Through March 3. ''Lynd Ward Draws Stories: Inspired by Mexico's History, Mark Twain and Adventures in the Woods.'' Through June 30. Tuesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Jane Voorhees Zimmerli Art Museum, 71 Hamilton Street. (732) 932-7237; zimmerlimuseum.rutgers.edu.
NEW BRUNSWICK Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation ''The Collection: Past and Present Acquisitions,'' artifacts, photos, fine art, folk art and sculpture. Through Jan. 31. Donation: $5. Tuesdays through Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 4 p.m. Museum of the American Hungarian Foundation, 300 Somerset Street. hstrial-pfazekaz.homestead.com; (732) 846-5777.
NEW BRUNSWICK The Brodsky Gallery at The Heldrich Hotel ''Home From Iraq: A Joint Perspective,'' exhibition of watercolors by David Pierce, and a fund-raiser for veterans. Through Jan. 30. Free. The Brodsky Gallery at the Heldrich Hotel, 10 Livingston Avenue. theheldrich.com; (732) 729-4670.
NEWARK City Without Walls ''Metro 29 Show,'' artists from the metropolitan region. Through Feb. 16. Tuesdays through Saturdays, noon to 6 p.m.; closed through Jan. 1. City Without Walls, 6 Crawford Street. (973) 622-1188; cwow.org.
NEWARK Newark Museum ''Generation Fit: Steps to a Healthier Lifestyle,'' interactive family exhibition on nutrition and exercise. Through Dec. 30. ''From Meiji to Modern: Japanese Art Goes Global, 19th to 21st Centuries.'' Through Dec. 31. ''The Teapot,'' 66 teapots. Through Dec. 31. ''Christmas in the Ballantine House,'' exhibition of 19th-century holiday traditions. Through Jan. 6. ''Angels and Tomboys: Girlhood in 19th-Century American Art,'' traveling loan exhibition. Through Jan. 20. ''Expanding Africa at the Newark Museum: New Visions, New Galleries,'' contemporary and historical works in different media. Through May 1. ''Present Tense -- Arts of Contemporary Africa,'' works from the permanent collection, continuing. ''In Her Eyes: Women Behind and in Front of the Camera,'' photography by women examining female identity. Through spring 2013. $6 to $10; members, free. Wednesdays through Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. The Newark Museum, 49 Washington Street. (973) 596-6550; newarkmuseum.org.
NEWARK Paul Robeson Campus Center, Rutgers University -- Newark Campus ''Dreamtime IV: So Yoon Lym,'' paintings derived from photographs of intricately braided hairstyles of students at John F. Kennedy High School in Paterson. Through Jan. 9. Paul Robeson Campus Center, Rutgers University -- Newark Campus, 350 Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. Boulevard. robeson.rutgers.edu; (973) 353-5300.
OCEAN TOWNSHIP Township of Ocean Historical Museum ''Loved Ones Go to War: Local Stories of World War II,'' the impact of the war on local veterans and those they left behind. Through June 1. Tuesdays and Wednesdays, 1 to 4 p.m.; Thursdays, 1 to 4 p.m. and 7 to 9 p.m.; and first and second Sundays of the month, 1 to 4 p.m. Admission is free. Township of Ocean Historical Museum, 703 Deal Road. oceanmuseum.org; (732) 531-2136.
OCEANVILLE Noyes Museum of Art ''Finding Home: Seth Camm,'' paintings and stories examining homelessness. Through Jan. 27. $4 and $5. Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., with extended hours Thursdays until 8 p.m.; Sunday, noon to 5 p.m. Noyes Museum of Art, 733 Lily Lake Road. (609) 652-8848; noyesmuseum.org.
PATERSON The Art Factory ''Mixed Up in the Mixed-Up Media,'' mixed-media works by the local artists Ibou Ndoye and Liz Cohen. Through Dec. 31. Free. The Art Factory, 70 Spruce Street. (973) 278-1500; artfactory.us.com.
PRINCETON D&R Greenway ''Urban Landscapes,'' exhibition of multimedia art. Through Feb. 15. D&R Greenway, One Preservation Place. (609) 924-4646; drgreenway.org.
PRINCETON Morven Museum and Garden ''Portrait of Place: Paintings, Drawings and Prints of New Jersey, 1761-1898, From the Collection of Joseph J. Felcone.'' Through Jan. 13. $6; seniors and students, $5. Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 3 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 4 p.m. Morven Museum and Garden, 55 Stockton Street. (609) 924-8144; morven.org.
PRINCETON Princeton University Art Museum ''Dancing Into Dreams: Maya Vase Painting of the Ik' Kingdom.'' Through Feb. 17. ''The Fertile Crescent: Gender, Art and Society,'' 24 contemporary feminist artists of Middle Eastern descent. Through Jan. 13. ''City of Gold: Tomb and Temple in Ancient Cyprus,'' art and archaeology of early Cyprus. Through Jan. 20. Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Fridays and Saturdays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Thursdays, 10 a.m. to 10 p.m.; Sundays, 1 to 5 p.m. Princeton University Art Museum, Nassau and Witherspoon Streets. (609) 258-3788; artmuseum.princeton.edu.
PRINCETON Princeton University Library ''First X, Then Y, Now Z: Landmark Thematic Maps'' in meteorology, geology, hydrography, natural history, medicine and sociology/economics. Through Feb. 10. Mondays through Fridays, 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, noon to 5 p.m. Princeton University Library, 1 Washington Road. princeton.edu/rbsc; (609) 258-3184.
PRINCETON Richardson Auditorium ''Listen Up! exhibition,'' music-inspired artwork by middle school students. Through Jan. 25. Richardson Auditorium, in Alexander Hall on the Princeton University campus. princeton.edu/richaud; (609) 258-3000.
STONE HARBOR William Ris Gallery ''Nature and Art,'' group show featuring Glenn Rudderow. Through Jan. 31. Sundays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 4 p.m.; Saturdays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. William Ris Gallery, 9400 Second Avenue. williamris.com; (609) 368-6361.
SUMMIT Visual Arts Center of New Jersey ''Cordy Ryman: Shuffle/ Scrap/Echo,'' site-specific exhibition featuring both large-scale installations and individual works by Mr. Ryman. Jan. 11 through March 24. Visual Arts Center of New Jersey, 68 Elm Street. artcenternj.org; (908) 273-9121.
TEANECK Puffin Cultural Forum ''Romare Bearden: The Artist and Social Activist,'' editorial cartoons, graphics, cover art and illustrations. Through Feb. 28. Tuesdays through Thursdays, noon to 4 p.m. Puffin Cultural Forum, 20 Puffin Way. puffinculturalforum.org; (201) 836-3499.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ENGLEWOOD: The trumpet player Chris Botti will perform at the Bergen Performing Arts Center, 30 North Van Brunt Street, on Jan. 9 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $39 to $109. (201) 227-1030
bergenpac.org. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
RED BANK: John Oliver, comedian, actor and writer, will perform at the Count Basie Theater, 99 Monmouth Street, on Jan. 12 at 8 p.m. Tickets are $19.50 to $32.50. (732) 842-9000
countbasietheatre.org. (NJ9)
MORRISTOWN: The animal expert Jack Hanna presents ''Jack Hanna's Into the Wild Live,'' featuring live animals and stories from his adventures, at the Mayo Performing Arts Center, 100 South Street, on Jan. 6 at 1:30 and 4:30 p.m. Tickets are $25 to $35. (973) 539-8008
mayoarts.org. (NJ10)
NEWARK: The cellist Yo-Yo Ma will perform with the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra, led by Antoni Wit, at the New Jersey Performing Arts Center's Prudential Hall, 1 Center Street, on Jan. 10 at 7:30 p.m. Tickets are $25 to $125. njsymphony.org
 (973) 624-3713. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL BARRY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (NJ11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (88%); FILM DIRECTORS (88%); FILM (76%); WRITERS (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); DANCE COMPANIES (71%); ANIMATION (68%); BALLET (68%)

ORGANIZATION: MONMOUTH UNIVERSITY (83%)

PERSON: JEFF DUNHAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



969 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN | CHELSEA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Calling Activists and Artists of All Stripes

BYLINE: By C. J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IF West 23rd Street needed putting on a map, a cartographer could perhaps rely on a couple of its pop music landmarks: the Chelsea Hotel, once an inspiration for artists like Leonard Cohen, Bob Dylan and Joni Mitchell (as in her classic ''Chelsea Morning''); and, just across the street, the century-old former Y.M.C.A. building that is said to have sparked the Village People's late-'70s anthem of the same name.
That the 27-block neighborhood could inspire both folk rock and disco on the same block attests to its great eclecticism, says Paul Groncki, a longtime resident. That ambience endured despite the area's evolution away from its factory origins in the 20th century, with all kinds of residents -- artists, middle-class Latinos and a gay community -- living happily side by side.
Mr. Groncki (an economist who has since retired) was there with them. An enthusiast for the neighborhood, he is a trustee of Hudson Guild, a nonprofit group that offers preschool programs to lower-income residents, including those in two housing projects, Robert Fulton and Elliott-Chelsea, which have 17 buildings along Ninth Avenue. 
It was back in 1987 that he and his wife, Michelle Tokarczyk, a college professor, left their one-bedroom rental in Greenwich Village for a prewar co-op in Chelsea. The unit, with two bedrooms and three exposures, cost $225,000; in recent years its value has hovered around $1 million, even during the recession, when Mr. Groncki had his unit appraised several times, he said.
Yet with prices having reached such heights, and with the neighborhood continuing to burnish its more recently acquired sheen of luxury, he pointed out: ''Cops and teachers can't afford to live here anymore. Chelsea is tipping toward the upper classes.''
Residents rarely take anything sitting down, however. Channeling a Chelsea tradition of activism -- there are eight popular and vocal block associations -- Mr. Groncki joined in a rally a few years ago against the Chelsea Enclave, a condominium planned for the leafy campus of the General Theological Seminary of the Episcopal Church, on Ninth Avenue at 21st Street. And their cause was won: the condo, conceived at 17 stories by its developer, the Brodsky Organization, now tops out at 7.
Other such battles have had different outcomes. Protesters have failed, for instance, to keep 300,000 square feet of office space from being added atop the historic Chelsea Market. The City Council approved the project last month.
Another activist resident, Matthew Weiss, who moved here in 2008, has worked for the last two years to consolidate support for creating a park on the site of a quarter-acre former city parking lot at 136 West 20th Street. Mr. Weiss, a research analyst, left behind a NoHo apartment for a co-op loft in a converted Chelsea hat factory.
A park is sorely needed, he says, pointing out that Community Board 4, which represents most of the neighborhood, is ranked near the bottom in the city in terms of open space.
The midblock parcel is designated for 75 units of affordable housing, and Community Board 4 has so far been reluctant to alter that plan. In January 2011, it voted overwhelmingly against the park.
Mr. Weiss, who claims thousands of backers, is undeterred. He asserted that ''20 or 30 years ago, when Chelsea was light manufacturing, the lack of parks was inconsequential,'' but that today ''it's become a critical problem.''
WHAT YOU'LL FIND
The huge swath of Midtown that Chelsea once described has been carved up into microneighborhoods, in sync with much of the rest of Manhattan. According to 2010 census data for the microneighborhood most typically regarded today as Chelsea proper, the population is about 35,000. But Mr. Weiss, who lives near Sixth Avenue, calls his area ''East Chelsea''; some developers use ''West Chelsea'' to describe the section beyond Ninth Avenue, where the High Line park is attracting throngs.
At the same time it has narrowed, Chelsea also appears to have pushed northward, into blocks once claimed by the garment district. Chelsea Park, a huge new 204-unit rental project, now looms at Eighth Avenue and 26th Street, near shop windows filled with reclining mannequins.
The neighborhood seems to go high-rise along the Avenue of the Americas above West 23rd Street, which is packed with rental towers like the Vanguard Chelsea, Chelsea Landmark and Chelsea Centro.
Moving west, the profile slopes down, though condos like Yves, which went up during the last boom, are hard to miss. At 14 stories, this Magnum Real Estate Group property is a reflective presence at 18th Street and Seventh Avenue.
Eighth Avenue is even lower-slung, lined with aged three-story tenements. Cross streets nearby are home to the neighborhood's architectural gems: early 1800s row houses in brownstone and brick. On the southern side of 22nd Street, between Eighth and Ninth, a series of Greek Revival houses set back from traffic display ornately carved doors that beckon above wide stoops.
Large old buildings have been given new lives, too. The Chelsea Mercantile, a former woolens factory at 252 Seventh Avenue, has a number of Hollywood actors as residents.
Nearby, across a five-block spread, stand the Mutual Redevelopment Houses, or Penn South, an income-restricted affordable redbrick co-op with 2,820 units -- studios to three-bedrooms -- across 10 buildings.
In the early 1960s, pensions from the International Ladies' Garment Workers Union helped pay for those buildings, says Walter Mankoff, a resident who is the complex's treasurer.
In 1971, he moved from the Bronx to a two-bedroom in Penn South that cost $168 a month, plus a $3,500 equity payment. Today, if the complex were to privatize -- an idea that has been discussed over the years -- Mr. Mankoff's place might bring $1 million. ''Chelsea has become highly upscale,'' he said.
WHAT YOU'LL PAY
In mid-December, there were 165 homes for sale at a median of $1.375 million. The priciest was a seven-floor town house at 150 West 15th Street, with an elevator, 10 baths and a Jacuzzi on the roof, at $16.9 million -- though it began its stint on the market two years ago at $22 million, according to Streeteasy data.
The cheapest was a co-op studio at 101 West 23rd Street, a six-story redbrick postwar building at a busy corner, at $210,000, according to the data.
Activity has been relatively sluggish since the recession, though prices have improved.
The year has seen 451 home sales, at a median of $975,000; this was on a par with 2011, when 458 homes sold, at a median of $838,000, the data show.
In 2007, at the peak of the market, 693 homes sold, at a median of $911,000.
THE COMMUTE
Chelsea, which abuts Midtown, is amply served by subway lines. F and M trains run along the Avenue of the Americas, stopping at West 14th and 23rd Streets. There are stops for the 1 train on Seventh Avenue at 14th, 18th, 23rd and 28th Streets, while 2 and 3 express trains also stop at 14th.
Along Eighth, C and E trains stop at 14th and 23rd; the A express and the L train also traverse the area.
WHAT TO DO
Though quiet enough for tumbleweeds 20 years ago, the Avenue of the Americas today has a parade of big-box shops -- some current retail vacancies notwithstanding. One emporium in a former church, the Limelight Marketplace, has since its opening two years ago morphed from club to mall.
Nor is it the only repurposed religious building. This fall the Atlantic Theater Company, one of whose founders is David Mamet, cut the ribbon on its new home inside the parish hall at St. Peter's Church, on West 20th Street. The Joyce Theater, meanwhile, offers dance performances in a converted cinema.
Businesses that cater to gay customers remain a presence on Eighth Avenue, like Rainbows and Triangles, a card shop, though residents say there are fewer than a decade ago.
Casa Havana, a 20-year-old Cuban restaurant, has an old-fashioned counter with a row of red stools. And that Y.M.C.A. that's fun to sing about? It's now on West 14th Street.
THE SCHOOLS
Most students are zoned for Public School 11, on 21st Street, which has 750 enrolled through fifth grade. On state exams last year, 59 percent of third graders met standards in English, 58 percent in math; citywide percentages were 52 and 66.
For the in-between grades, there's the New York City Lab Middle School for Collaborative Studies, at 333 West 17th Street, which has 560 students.
Last year, the Bayard Rustin High School for the Humanities graduated its final class. It has been reborn as the Bayard Rustin Educational Complex, split into smaller units, like the Liberty High School Academy for Newcomers, with 400 students.
SAT averages last year were 369 in reading, 436 in math and 352 in writing, versus 434 reading, 461 math and 430 writing citywide.
THE HISTORY
The Muffin House, at 337 West 20th Street, is where Samuel Bath Thomas of Thomas's English Muffins had a bakery, inside an old foundry.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: TASTE SPECTRUM: The Antiques Garage, a weekend flea market on West 25th, reflects the eclecticism of Chelsea, whose converted factories and other old buildings house a mix of bigname shops, luxury condos and affordable housing. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BEN ROSENZWEIG FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAPS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HISTORIC SITES (89%); GEOGRAPHY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (76%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (75%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); GAYS & LESBIANS (73%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (71%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (66%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); RELIGION (65%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%); CITIES (60%); CITY GOVERNMENT (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (52%); APPROVALS (50%)

COMPANY: BRODSKY ORGANIZATION (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (51%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



970 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: The Chatter

 BODY:
''It was as if the music stopped.''
Jessica LaShawn, 31, a flight attendant from Chicago, describing how she felt after her date asked what her credit score was. The credit score has become a bigger factor in dating decisions, according to daters, financial advisers and others. 
''It is clear that the housing recovery is gaining strength.''
David M. Blitzer, chairman of the index committee at S&P Dow Jones Indexes. Home prices were up in most major metropolitan areas in October from a year earlier, helped by rising sales and a decline in the supply of available homes.
''So far consumers are worried about the future. Once they start worrying about the present, we're in trouble.''
Guy Berger, United States economist at RBS Securities. Consumer confidence in the first half of December took a sharper-than-expected dip, falling to its lowest level since August, according to the Conference Board.
''Many of us went to China for a new, sweet beginning but tasted only bitterness in the end.''
Jason Chen, who went to mainland China in 1992 to find raw materials for his garment and blanket business in Taiwan. But he says he lost money because quality was so poor and, as a result, started making his own waterproof, synthetic cloth -- part of a re-emergence of Taiwan's textile industry.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); TEXTILES (71%); HOME PRICES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); FABRIC MILLS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); TAIWAN (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



971 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 978 words

HEADLINE: Personal Finance Advice, Taken to the Woodshed

BYLINE: By CAITLIN KELLY

 BODY:
IT'S rare to come across a realistic and readable book about personal finance. Most are laden with rosy promises, followed by acronyms and turgid advice. Helaine Olen, a freelance journalist, offers an exception with ''Pound Foolish: Exposing the Dark Side of the Personal Finance Industry'' (Portfolio, $27.95). It's a take-no-prisoners examination of the ways she says we have been scared, misled or bamboozled by those purporting to help us achieve financial security.
Ms. Olen writes that the ''financial therapy movement,'' for all of its flaws, ''has hit on one universal truth: When it comes to money, the vast majority of us are nuts. Bonkers.'' She counts some of the ways: ''We don't open our 401(k) statements. We 'forget' to pay our bills or file our taxes until the last minute.'' Financial literacy is alarmingly low. Many of us don't budget at all. 
With a flood of financial advice available on the Internet and on television, and through books and newspapers, what's the disconnect? Aren't we listening?
The problem, Ms. Olen writes, is that ''most of the financial advice published and dished out by the truckload is useless'' -- that it is simply ''oblivious to the messiness of the human condition.''
What most advice fails to factor in -- and what we often choose to overlook ourselves -- are the costly realities of things like job loss, protracted unemployment, medical bankruptcy and high-interest debt. Even when we do save, plummeting interest rates, falling home prices and other economic events imperil our best efforts.
A former personal finance columnist for The Los Angeles Times, Ms. Olen uses as examples people who are desperate for help with managing their money. These include a real estate investor whose combination of bad luck, unemployment and poor decision-making left her in foreclosure. There is also a commercial pilot whose pension was cut and who invested in real estate that ended up plummeting in value.
Desperation, fear and insecurity can be a salesperson's best friend. Ms. Olen learns how lucrative it is to sell financial services to the elderly, many of them terrified of outliving their savings. A 2009 AARP survey found that nearly one in 10 people over 55, or about 5.9 million Americans, had attended a free financial seminar in the last three years.
At the World MoneyShow, an annual event in Orlando, 80 percent of attendees were over 55. The author writes that ''a panicked baby boomer is their best customer.''
And while Ms. Olen roundly attacks the myth that women are too emotional or ignorant to handle money well, she notes that they often lack confidence in their money management skills. Women also live longer than men and earn less. Saving more money, as women are exhorted to do, isn't the issue, Ms. Olen says: ''How they should do this with a lesser income that's expected to do more goes unsaid.''
Unusual, and refreshing, is her inclusion of so many women's voices throughout the book, such as the writer Jane Bryant Quinn; the financial adviser Manisha Thakor, the labor economist Teresa Ghilarducci, and Elizabeth Warren, recently elected to the Senate from Massachusetts.
One woman who comes in for some scathing treatment is the best-selling financial adviser Suze Orman, whom Ms. Olen criticizes as offering ''financial platitudes'' and making huge amounts of money by telling others to be frugal. Ms. Olen writes that ''Orman's supposed wisdom often contradicts itself,'' and that her affiliations with companies like FICO and Lending Tree raise questions about the impartiality of her advice.
She criticizes many other financial gurus, saying they have provided unhelpful or confusing advice. These include Robert Kiyosaki, who in ''Rich Dad, Poor Dad'' referred to investments that ''may have returns of 100 percent to infinity,'' and the television personality Jim Cramer, whom the author describes as ''a sweating and howling man'' and who once declared that ''Bear Stearns is not in trouble!'' shortly before it collapsed.
Even good investing advice is often unhelpful, Ms. Olen says, because millions of Americans have saved so little money. For people who do have enough money to invest, the ability of financial services firms to charge high fees, unchallenged, is abetted by low rates of financial literacy. Many investors are unwilling to question glowing promises of double-digit returns or to read carefully the small print on a mutual fund statement. Our overly optimistic expectations of investment performance too often meet the reality of little professional oversight for all but the wealthiest.
While we know intellectually that we need to save and invest for our future, our ability to do so varies enormously, Ms. Olen points out.
''Between 1979 and 2007, the average after-tax income for the top 1 percent of earners in the economy soared by 281 percent,'' she writes. ''The top 20 percent would see their incomes increase by 95 percent. The middle fifth? A mere 25 percent.''
THE solutions offered by the personal finance world have been unrealistic, she says, contending that ''the increasing problem Americans were having keeping up financially was not viewed as a social justice problem, but as a knowledge and smarts problem that could be solved on an individual basis, one investor at a time.''
She's clear-eyed about the challenge of saving and investing when you simply have nothing to work with, and when decisions about spending are a daily quandary as prices rise and wages remain stagnant or fall.
Ms. Olen describes playing Spent, an online role-playing game in which players are asked to make decisions while earning minimum wages, like those often found in retailing, the nation's largest source of new jobs. The goal is to get to the next pay cycle without debt.
''I've played Spent dozens of times,'' she writes, ''and I've never, ever made it to the end of the month.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); BOOK REVIEWS (73%); US 401K PLANS (73%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); FORECLOSURE (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (65%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (64%); INTEREST RATES (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); POLLS & SURVEYS (63%); HOME PRICES (63%)

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES TIMES (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (65%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



972 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; UNBOXED; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: Sure, Big Data Is Great. But So Is Intuition.

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR

 BODY:
IT was the bold title of a conference this month at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and of a widely read article in The Harvard Business Review last October: ''Big Data: The Management Revolution.''
Andrew McAfee, principal research scientist at the M.I.T. Center for Digital Business, led off the conference by saying that Big Data would be ''the next big chapter of our business history.'' Next on stage was Erik Brynjolfsson, a professor and director of the M.I.T. center and a co-author of the article with Dr. McAfee. Big Data, said Professor Brynjolfsson, will ''replace ideas, paradigms, organizations and ways of thinking about the world.''
These drumroll claims rest on the premise that data like Web-browsing trails, sensor signals, GPS tracking, and social network messages will open the door to measuring and monitoring people and machines as never before. And by setting clever computer algorithms loose on the data troves, you can predict behavior of all kinds: shopping, dating and voting, for example.
The results, according to technologists and business executives, will be a smarter world, with more efficient companies, better-served consumers and superior decisions guided by data and analysis. 
I've written about what is now being called Big Data a fair bit over the years, and I think it's a powerful tool and an unstoppable trend. But a year-end column, I thought, might be a time for reflection, questions and qualms about this technology.
The quest to draw useful insights from business measurements is nothing new. Big Data is a descendant of Frederick Winslow Taylor's ''scientific management'' of more than a century ago. Taylor's instrument of measurement was the stopwatch, timing and monitoring a worker's every movement. Taylor and his acolytes used these time-and-motion studies to redesign work for maximum efficiency. The excesses of this approach would become satirical grist for Charlie Chaplin's ''Modern Times.'' The enthusiasm for quantitative methods has waxed and waned ever since.
Big Data proponents point to the Internet for examples of triumphant data businesses, notably Google. But many of the Big Data techniques of math modeling, predictive algorithms and artificial intelligence software were first widely applied on Wall Street.
At the M.I.T. conference, a panel was asked to cite examples of big failures in Big Data. No one could really think of any. Soon after, though, Roberto Rigobon could barely contain himself as he took to the stage. Mr. Rigobon, a professor at M.I.T.'s Sloan School of Management, said that the financial crisis certainly humbled the data hounds. ''Hedge funds failed all over the world,'' he said.
THE problem is that a math model, like a metaphor, is a simplification. This type of modeling came out of the sciences, where the behavior of particles in a fluid, for example, is predictable according to the laws of physics.
In so many Big Data applications, a math model attaches a crisp number to human behavior, interests and preferences. The peril of that approach, as in finance, was the subject of a recent book by Emanuel Derman, a former quant at Goldman Sachs and now a professor at Columbia University. Its title is ''Models. Behaving. Badly.''
Claudia Perlich, chief scientist at Media6Degrees, an online ad-targeting start-up in New York, puts the problem this way: ''You can fool yourself with data like you can't with anything else. I fear a Big Data bubble.''
The bubble that concerns Ms. Perlich is not so much a surge of investment, with new companies forming and then failing in large numbers. That's capitalism, she says. She is worried about a rush of people calling themselves ''data scientists,'' doing poor work and giving the field a bad name.
Indeed, Big Data does seem to be facing a work-force bottleneck.
''We can't grow the skills fast enough,'' says Ms. Perlich, who formerly worked for I.B.M. Watson Labs and is an adjunct professor at the Stern School of Business at New York University.
A report last year by the McKinsey Global Institute, the research arm of the consulting firm, projected that the United States needed 140,000 to 190,000 more workers with ''deep analytical'' expertise and 1.5 million more data-literate managers, whether retrained or hired.
Thomas H. Davenport, a visiting professor at the Harvard Business School, is writing a book called ''Keeping Up With the Quants'' to help managers cope with the Big Data challenge. A major part of managing Big Data projects, he says, is asking the right questions: How do you define the problem? What data do you need? Where does it come from? What are the assumptions behind the model that the data is fed into? How is the model different from reality?
Society might be well served if the model makers pondered the ethical dimensions of their work as well as studying the math, according to Rachel Schutt, a senior statistician at Google Research.
''Models do not just predict, but they can make things happen,'' says Ms. Schutt, who taught a data science course this year at Columbia. ''That's not discussed generally in our field.''
Models can create what data scientists call a behavioral loop. A person feeds in data, which is collected by an algorithm that then presents the user with choices, thus steering behavior.
Consider Facebook. You put personal data on your Facebook page, and Facebook's software tracks your clicks and your searches on the site. Then, algorithms sift through that data to present you with ''friend'' suggestions.
Understandably, the increasing use of software that microscopically tracks and monitors online behavior has raised privacy worries. Will Big Data usher in a digital surveillance state, mainly serving corporate interests?
Personally, my bigger concern is that the algorithms that are shaping my digital world are too simple-minded, rather than too smart. That was a theme of a book by Eli Pariser, titled ''The Filter Bubble: What the Internet Is Hiding From You.''
It's encouraging that thoughtful data scientists like Ms. Perlich and Ms. Schutt recognize the limits and shortcomings of the Big Data technology that they are building. Listening to the data is important, they say, but so is experience and intuition. After all, what is intuition at its best but large amounts of data of all kinds filtered through a human brain rather than a math model?
At the M.I.T. conference, Ms. Schutt was asked what makes a good data scientist. Obviously, she replied, the requirements include computer science and math skills, but you also want someone who has a deep, wide-ranging curiosity, is innovative and is guided by experience as well as data.
''I don't worship the machine,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JOHN HERSEY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIG DATA (90%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); SOCIAL MEDIA (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); WRITERS (70%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (68%); ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (84%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



973 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1265 words

HEADLINE: By the Book: Arnold Schwarzenegger

 BODY:
The actor, former governor and author of the memoir ''Total Recall'' says today's cleaned-up versions of Grimms' fairy tales are nothing like the horror versions he read as a child.
What book is on your night stand now?
Right now I'm reading a book called ''Incognito,'' by David Eagleman, about the human brain. I've always been interested in psychology, so learning about the things that influence our thinking is really important for me. In bodybuilding, I was known for ''psyching'' out my opponents with mind tricks. I wish I had this book then because the stuff I was doing was Mickey Mouse compared with what's in this book.
What was the last truly great book you read?
Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs. I absolutely love to hear stories about people who have tremendous vision; and when you talk about vision, Steve Jobs has to be in the conversation. He was such a revolutionary. It is completely inspirational to read about someone who saw the world, imagined something better, and then went out and made his vision a reality. 
I got to know Steve when I was governor of California, and he wanted to help pass a law to encourage organ donation. A lot of people have the drive to be successful, but not the same drive to give back once they've found success. Steve saw what it was like to desperately need an organ, and he could have easily just paid for his operation and been done with it. Instead, he came with his big vision and wanted to rewrite the laws to make it easier. He did the necessary work, and we were able to hammer out a law and push it through. I think that his compassion should be a bigger part of his legacy. His story is the ultimate California dream.
What is your favorite literary genre? Any guilty pleasures?
I prefer nonfiction, especially biographies and history books. You could spend your whole life reading history and you would still have several more lifetimes' worth of learning to do. I don't have much time in my schedule to read, so when I have a chance to sit down and get into a book, I want to make sure it is a story of greatness that inspires and teaches.
Some of my favorite books about politics are Reagan's autobiography ''An American Life'' as well as Lou Cannon's incredible anthology about him, and James Wooten's ''Dasher: The Roots and the Rising of Jimmy Carter.'' Of course I have mentioned many times how much Milton and Rose Friedman's ''Free to Choose'' contributed to my economic views.
And what books would you suggest to an aspiring governor?
I think Doris Kearns Goodwin's ''Team of Rivals'' is incredibly important. Today's politicians can learn so much from Lincoln. I think the most important lesson is that, despite our politics, we should never treat each other as enemies. We can have disagreements about the direction of the country, but at the end of the day we all want to serve our country. Lincoln proved a powerful lesson by appointing his critics and political foes to his cabinet. He wanted the best minds around him offering advice. Not Republican or Democrat minds. Just the best minds. All of us can learn from that.
Are there any books you found to be particularly insightful about California?
I think any of Kevin Starr's books fit the bill. No one -- no one -- knows California like Kevin Starr. When I ran for governor, I read binder after binder of briefings, but none of it taught me as much as one lunch with Kevin. He is an incredible historian, and he writes in a way that always makes what he's saying interesting. To this day, every time I see Kevin, I learn something new.
If you could require the president to read one book, what would it be?
I could never choose one book for a president. There are so many things you need to learn. I would have to say, ''Here is a book about Eisenhower building the highway system, so you can read about the vision it takes to build up our country, because we need to build again. Here is a book about how we developed our current energy policy, because we need to learn from that as we plan for our future energy needs.'' Then I would give them a kindergarten teacher's manual and let them know, ''You're going to need this when you deal with Congress.''
What were your favorite books as a child? Did you have a favorite character or hero?
When I was young, we were constantly exposed to the works of Peter Rosegger, who was a hero in Styria, my home state. He wrote incredible stories with a focus on our region, so he was one of the favorites.
We also constantly read these terribly violent stories by the Grimm Brothers. I mean, the cleaned-up versions of these are nowhere near the horror stories we used to read. It's no wonder my brother was a total scaredy-cat and afraid to walk home alone after you realize he had been exposed to the tales of the Grimm Brothers.
But I have to say that Karl May wrote my favorite stories. He was a German who had never seen a real cowboy or Indian, but somehow he wrote fantastic stories about this wise Apache chief named Winnetou and his cowboy friend Old Shatterhand. The stories taught me a powerful lesson about getting along despite differences, but more importantly, they opened up my world and gave me a window to see America. I still don't understand how Karl May was able to paint such an incredible picture of something he had never seen, but I do know that the cowboy stories immediately captured my attention and made me interested to learn everything I could about America.
If you could meet any writer, dead or alive, who would it be? What would you want to know?
Winston Churchill. He is one of my heroes, and when I look at all of the books he somehow had time to write, it just blows my mind. To be such a vital figure in modern history and at the same time write incredible history .â[#x20ac][#x2c6].â[#x20ac][#x2c6]. I would love to talk to him about how he had time to be great as a leader and as a writer. If there is one person who shows us the power of history, it has to be him. It's an old clichÃ© that history repeats himself, but when you read Churchill's speeches attacking the idea of appeasing Hitler or warning about the cold war, you realize how brilliant he was. He was ahead of the game, which is a funny thing to say about someone who spent his spare time writing and researching history.
What's the best movie based on a book you've seen recently?
I love everything about the ''Harry Potter'' franchise. You have an incredible, epic journey with amazing characters that I think plays just as well on the screen as it does on the page. But I'm also a sucker for a major success story, and it is very difficult to match J.â[#x20ac][0/00]K. Rowling in that category. Talk about inspiration: to go from being a struggling single parent to where she is today, it's just incredible. I love to hear stories like that, and her personal story is as epic as the stories she wrote about Harry Potter.
If you could play any character from literature, who would it be?
One of my favorite characters in history is Cincinnatus, and I've read everything I can find about him. I would love to play him in a film about ancient Rome. He was given the keys to the kingdom -- pure, absolute power! -- and he did the job and then went back to his farm. He didn't get drunk on the power. He did the job he was asked to do, dealt with the invasion and walked away. That is the purest form of public service I can imagine, and it would be fun to try to capture that character on film.
The United States was lucky to have George Washington as a founding father, because he had that same civic virtue, and of course he had read about and admired Cincinnatus.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY BY JILLIAN TAMAKI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); LITERATURE GENRES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ORGAN DONATION (65%); WEIGHTLIFTING (55%)

PERSON: ARNOLD SCHWARZENEGGER (73%); JIMMY CARTER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



974 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Strays

BYLINE: By JENNIFER B. McDONALD. 
Jennifer B. McDonald, an editor at the Book Review, is a 2012-13 Nieman fellow at Harvard University.

 BODY:
ANOTHER INSANE DEVOTIONOn the Love of Cats and Persons
By Peter TrachtenbergIllustrated. 283 pp. Da Capo Press. $24.
''Not many things are better than a kitten.''
A confession: I'm predisposed to love Peter Trachtenberg's new memoir, ''Another Insane Devotion,'' because of that one sentence, which is written without irony and appears in an author's note before the main narrative even gets under way. If you agree with it, I'll bet you a giant toy mouse that you will adore this book outright for its scrutiny of the domestic cat in all its cuddlesome glory. (Trachtenberg's hilarious descriptions of catty antics are like viral videos transposed into print.) If you don't agree, you may still adore this book for everything else it offers: a suspense story, a love story, a falling-out-of-love story, sex and yearning, literary gossip, economic hardship, conspicuous references to the Western canon, meditations on Being, picturesque Italian getaways, medieval torturers, death. 
That's a lot to pack into a pet memoir. But then, this is not just a pet memoir. Trachtenberg, whose previous work, ''The Book of Calamities,'' explored the varietiesof human suffering, may at first seem to have traded woe and wickedness for cuteness, but make no mistake: his feet remain planted firmly in the shadows. His memoir is about the torments of grief and separation as much as it is about the nature of desire and devotion. He is driven to the page not by the thrill of love but by his inability to trust and fathom it, in others or in himself.
In the autumn of 2008, Trachtenberg learned that Biscuit, one of four cats living in his home in upstate New York, had vanished. He was in North Carolina on a teaching job, and his writer wife, whom he calls F., was in Europe on an artist's residency. They had left their brood in the care of a heedless sitter who ''seemed a little afraid of cats.'' So Trachtenberg, despite being broke, bought a $365.50 plane ticket on credit to return to New York and pursue Biscuit himself.
If this seems insane, I direct you to the book's title, which is taken from a lyric by the American poet Gerald Stern, in which a man's encounter with a feral cat leads to a rhapsody on love and regret (''I think I gave the cat / half of my sandwich to buy my life''). Trachtenberg's affection toward Biscuit -- a little ginger he found ''hunched miserably on a tree branch in the rain,'' who all her life thereafter was known for her ''copious wet sneezing'' -- cannot be overstated. It's as if she's the best girlfriend he never had: ''She was so easygoing,'' he writes, ''a miracle of poise.'' When she wanders off, for ''incomprehensible, unknowable'' reasons, he becomes a Romantic hero possessed: ''I can recount just about every step of my search for her and many of the key incidents of our relationship before then. This is more than I can do for my relationship with F.''
Cats provide an ideal metaphor for F. (It's hard to imagine this memoir working had its author been a dog person.) Trachtenberg describes her as a watchful woman possessed of a ''brittle cool'' who prefers to glide unseen through the countryside and gazes ''tensely into the night.'' ''Her solitude,'' he writes, ''along with her quiet and general eccentricity,'' causes her ''social awkwardness.'' A glance at the acknowledgments and a quick Internet search easily betray F.'s identity, and while this may yield some voyeuristic pleasure, who she is in life is less relevant than what she represents on the page: muse and foil, an object of fascination and vexation, an impetus for Trachtenberg to investigate his own way of seeing and his limitations as a lover, a husband, a man.
Trachtenberg is an impish and intelligent essayist, his writing sinuous and sensual. One of his cats, he imagines, must have seen him and a girlfriend as ''two large humans rank with sex and tobacco, toothpaste, deodorant and shampoo, their mouths brutal with teeth, their nostrils like caves.'' To Biscuit, the scent of the subway clinging to his clothes surely evoked ''a canned stew of humans shrieking through the darkness beneath the earth.''
Where his whims take him, it's usually gratifying to follow. Only occasionally does he stumble, stretching for pathos and landing in schmaltz, or indulging in disquisitions (on, say, the coupling rituals of French peasants) that read a bit like CliffsNotes history. Remarks on St. Augustine, Descartes and Derrida trumpet his bookishness, but more interesting are the passages in which he dives into the emotional and psychological Dumpster and emerges filthy and naked, primed for confessions of his own.
He confesses to envy, apathy, preening and contrivance. He confesses to insecurity: ''The main thing I wanted to see was what she thought of me.'' At times you feel sorry for him, scrambling around on all fours, trying to please creatures he's unsure love him back. ''I was grateful that she chose to be so close to me'' -- this he says of Biscuit, though it may as well be about his wife.
Unlike F., he seems to fear moving through the world unseen, to fret about living and dying without witness. ''The facts of my life seem less certain to me when I am alone,'' he writes. His cats, and F., help fix him in space and time: ''Because they are watching, my actions -- and maybe even my thoughts -- register on me in a way they otherwise might not.'' How deeply indebted he is to the objects of his devotion is reflected, with the loss of each of them, in the fervor of his lament.
In the end we learn Biscuit's fate, but other questions -- will Trachtenberg find peace? will his marriage last? -- are left unsettled. Trachtenberg is an extraordinarily perceptive observer of cats and persons, but to observe, after all, is never to truly know. To his great credit, he embraces this, and his uncertainty brings the profoundest rewards. Not many things are better than a kitten, but a book like this comes close.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING OF PETER TRACHTENBERG BY CASEY SORROW) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); CATS (89%); WRITERS (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (89%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (77%); LITERATURE (77%); POETRY (71%)

COMPANY: DA CAPO PRESS (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (87%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (67%) UNITED STATES (87%); EUROPE (70%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



975 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 2530 words

HEADLINE: The Wayward Essay

BYLINE: By PARUL SEHGAL. 
Parul Sehgal is an editor at the Book Review.

 BODY:
In its quality of attention and faith in the salvific power of the right words in the right order, the essay resembles nothing so much as a secular prayer. That, at least, was the original point. The essay has proved wayward, which has been the great secret to its longevity.
Invented in France by Michel de Montaigne, the 16th century's great oversharer; perfected in England by Samuel Johnson and William Hazlitt; the essay found America very agreeable: ''The United States itself -- and even its name, according to some sources -- is partly the outcome of the essayistic brilliance of the radical English artisan Thomas Paine,'' Christopher Hitchens, one of its finest modern practitioners, wrote. Its health, however, has never been guaranteed.
Virginia Woolf had to reassure the public in 1922: ''Oh, yes dear reader: the essay is alive. There is no reason to despair,'' even as journalists crowed over the death of ''that lavender-scented little old lady of literature.'' ''Everybody is forever saying that the essay is dead,'' John Leonard observed in 1982. ''This is always said in essays.'' 
The essay doesn't die. It's too protean. It only grows more indispensable as it learns to mimic, then amplify, our senses. The essay is a way of seeing through language, and in language. It grasps and sifts -- recall its cognate ''assay,'' the distinguishing of base metals and gold. And if we like our art forms promiscuous and free, it obliges. Joan Didion turned it on to doubt in the 1970s, admitting in her collection ''The White Album'' that writing about her experience ''has not yet helped me see what it means,'' and an already supple form became even more elastic. The ''lavender-scented little old lady of literature'' has loosened her stays.
Only a certain breed of literary essay retains some starch. The book review, for example, with its formality and abstractions, its ego and aggression tamped down. Not for it the ecstasy of doubt; it trudges from certainty to certainty.
But in such strictures self announces itself in style. Think of Virginia Woolf's unsigned reviews in The Times Literary Supplement. The ''anonymity was ideal,'' James Wood explains. ''Surely Woolf knew that her prose had to sign itself. So her essays, both in texture and in content, were self-advertisements.'' This is true too of Wood himself, a staff writer at The New Yorker, with his clearly delineated -- and undeviating -- theory of how fiction works and what it must do. Raised in the evangelical tradition, he possesses a faith in fiction that is absolutist, and teleological; ''It was not just the ascent of science but perhaps the ascent of the novel that helped to kill off Jesus's divinity,'' he has written. He reads messianically, with a hunger for fiction to answer the questions religion once did.
Wood's new book, THE FUN STUFF: And Other Essays (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27), possesses many of the pleasures of his previous collections ''The Broken Estate'' (1999) and ''The Irresponsible Self'' (2004): the same tight weave, the laconic humor, the genius for metaphor (Flaubert, ''the agonist of style, assassinated repetitions like insects.''). He keeps bringing us back to Chekhov, Tolstoy, Flaubert -- about the old masters, Wood is never wrong -- founts of psychological insight. No one is better at alerting us to influences with such gossipy familiarity: just as Orwell ''almost certainly'' got his ''eye for didactic detail from Tolstoy,'' Wood tells us, Ian McEwan in turn ''learned quite a lot about narrative stealth and the control of disgust from Orwell.'' And no critic gets closer to the text. Wood writes that Edmund Wilson ''seems to rear panoptically above his subjects, like a statue overseeing a city square.'' Wilson looms over the work; Wood seems to speak from within it. On Norman Rush's ''Mating'': ''The novel has the air at times of a once fatter man whose thinner frame is now making his skin sag a bit: there are abrupt transitions and sudden deposits of information.'' He is critic as coroner, reporting on the source of life or root of disease. He can be surprisingly squeamish, though; he shudders at how Wilson would ''happily gut a living novelistic organism with the blunt blade of précis.''
But ''The Fun Stuff'' is notable for what it does not include. There is no introduction. Wood establishes no unifying thesis or theme. For a writer so fond of system building, the silence is puzzling. Our most consistent critic is changing. In his tightly pleached arguments, he's making room for the reader, and a fresh inquiry. He's moving past fiction's possibilities to linger on its limitations, on the books that explore what happens when language becomes insufficient and storytelling breaks down. How the starved sentences of Lydia Davis's later stories flirt with muteness and leak grief. How ''Leaving the Atocha Station,'' an American-abroad novel by the poet Ben Lerner, reaches ''for what cannot be disclosed or confessed in narrative.'' How ''The Road,'' Cormac McCarthy's apocalyptic Grand Guignol, evades its own crucial question: ''As long as language can be used to recount the worst, then the worst has not arrived. . . . When does narrative, language end?''
We see too his attraction to narratives of exile, unreliable memory and uneasy citizenship, to people ''mugged by history,'' as he describes the Bosnian-born writer, Aleksandar Hemon. Wood loves the forked consciousness, the immigrant's delight in refreshing the English language's possibilities -- Nabokov and Hemon's taste for the oddly pronged adjective or the ''enraptured and faintly alienated'' perspective of Joseph O'Neill's Dutch narrator of ''Netherland,'' who sees New York as a ''garbage of light.'' ''The Fun Stuff'' features exhilarating readings of Hemon and O'Neill, W. G. Sebald, Ismail Kadare and V. S. Naipaul. Few can parse with as much economy and sophistication how estrangement corrodes and strengthens character, sharpens and clouds perception. He's interested in what we do with our wounds -- how, for the outsider and immigrant, knowledge can be protection; mastery, revenge. ''I have got to show these people that I can beat them at their own language,'' a young Naipaul wrote home to his family in Trinidad during his lonely years studying at Oxford. Seeded in Wood's essay on George Orwell is his connection to such stories: he was a scholarship boy at Orwell's own school, Eton, ''alternately grateful for its every expensive blessing and yearning to blow it up.'' He understands the wages of ''productive shame.''
In the final essay, ''Packing My Father-in-Law's Library,'' a self-portrait at slant angle, Wood tries to find a home for a very large and very eccentric book collection. It's a play on Walter Benjamin's classic essay ''Unpacking My Library,'' but where Benjamin sweatily fondles his fetishes, Wood wrings his hands. He laments how meaningful a library is to its collector, and how worthless it is to anyone else. He fantasizes about someone mysteriously carting off all his own books. How free he'd feel. It's an elegant terminus, a vanishing point where all the lines intersect. At every moment the words are running out, the time is running out. The books remain -- but without someone to release their meaning, they are so much dross.
Wood compels, but he won't sway the reader. He's too idiosyncratic and forceful in his method. But hold tight to your convictions while reading Daniel Mendelsohn lest you absorb his own. You'll want to. They're always more deeply considered, generous in spirit, fresher and funnier than yours. A contributor to The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books, Mendelsohn just might be our most irresistible literary critic, and his new collection, WAITING FOR THE BARBARIANS: Essays From the Classics to Pop Culture (New York Review Books, $24.95), features readings of high and low culture, from Anne Carson to ''Avatar,'' with an eye to the endurance of classical themes.
His approach is systematic and pedagogical. He begins his books by announcing their major themes and explaining their structures. In ''How Beautiful It Is and How Easily It Can Be Broken,'' he even offered up his qualifications. This new collection is as lucid and more assured; instead of dithering in the foyer, hat in hand, presenting his C.V., Mendelsohn strides in with a majestic ''Don't worry.''
These essays take on ''the reality problem,'' he tells us, the ''extraordinary blurring between reality and artifice'' made possible by new genres and new technologies. And Mendelsohn is especially fond of analysis that itself collapses this distance, that traces the success or failure of a work to the character of its creator. Thus the Broadway musical ''Spider Man: Turn Off the Dark'' didn't flop merely because of lousy songs, legal troubles and ghastly accidents but because the director Julie Taymor, ''like a character in some Attic play,'' was ''led by a single-minded passion to betray her truest self and abandon her greatest virtues.'' The artist with a taste for spare, spiritually inflected spectacles, who had sworn she had no intention of making, say, ''Batman: The Musical,'' had gone and done just that.
Susan Sontag suffers from the same hamartia, according to Mendelsohn, who is endlessly fascinated by how the lack of self-knowledge makes self-betrayal inevitable. She belonged to the 19th century, he writes, which explains the ''aspirations that were at odds with her temperament and her talent.'' She insisted she be known as a storyteller, when the very qualities that made her so exciting a critic -- the self-consciousness and ''inability to resist any opportunity to interpret'' -- made her a clunky and banal novelist. The self, to Mendelsohn's trained classicist's eye, is gloriously rived. Forget reconciling its contradictions -- the self can scarcely see them.
Cheerfully pessimistic though he may be, he is never an alarmist (remember that ''Don't worry''). He practices a civilized, soothing form of criticism, his intellect an alembic that purifies, restores calm and historical context. ''What others might see as declines and falls look, when seen from the bird's-eye vantage point of history, more like shifts, adaptations, reorganizations,'' he writes. This constitutional temperance gives his prose its legato rhythms, the languorous judgments; he might be a cat toying with his prey.
And much of the fun of reading Mendelsohn is his sense of play, his irreverence and unpredictability, his frank emotional responses -- he gasps in amazement while watching ''Avatar,'' he bursts into tears during Philip Glass's opera ''Satyagraha.'' He forces the form in directions Francis Bacon never imagined. Which isn't to say he can't be brutal. He dispatches Jonathan Franzen so efficiently you can smell the cordite. Discussing ''The Discomfort Zone,'' a ''thin and insubstantial'' essay collection, as well as the novelist's peevish response to being selected for Oprah's Book Club, Mendelsohn attributes Franzen's habit of ''snide superiority'' to a case of arrested adolescence so severe it amounts to a ''political and aesthetic autism.''
''Character will out'' is the refrain of this book, but as Mendelsohn points out in his essay on ''Mad Men,'' strengths and flaws frequently flow from the same root. Just because the structure cannot hold doesn't mean we cannot enjoy the view. As a culture, we're famously fond of ruins.
Since her first book, ''The Morning After: Sex, Fear and Feminism,'' was published in 1993, Katie Roiphe has been the professional gadfly of the women's movement, checking what she perceives to be its excesses. She's inveighed against rules forbidding sexual harassment, arguing that such strictures deny workers a ''vivid office culture.'' She's found feminists guilty of inflicting upon readers a generation of flaccid male novelists too cowed and politically correct to live up to their rowdy predecessors. Her preoccupation with defending male sexuality recalls Rebecca West, whom Christopher Hitchens memorably described as ''a superbly intelligent woman, whose feminism was above all concerned with the respect for, and the preservation of, true masculinity.''
It's a pity that the bombast of her writing on gender politics draws attention away from her writing on books. The 10 literary essays at the heart of IN PRAISE OF MESSY LIVES: Essays (Dial Press, $25) are wicked and endearing; the language is conversational and burnished to a hard shine. It's impossible to read journalism the same way after reading Roiphe on how Joan Didion's stylistic tics -- her ironic use of quotation marks, her attention to news as narrative -- have become clichés of the genre.
Untethered from a text, Roiphe is less sure-footed. As Daniel Mendelsohn might point out, the traits that make her a lively critic -- her irascibility and unsparing eye, her predilection to pronounce rather than persuade -- doom her as a personal essayist. Her pieces on her circle's dreary obsession with health and domesticity devolve, turn personal and very sour. Paranoia and a lack of proportion bloom abundantly throughout these sections. She berates friends who inquired how she was doing after her divorce, insisting they were ''invested in the idea that I am suffering some form of collapse.'' Thinking a colleague has implied that she's ''getting away with something'' by being a single mother, Roiphe wraps herself in righteousness and a paraphrase of James Baldwin: ''He can face in your life only what he can face in his.'' The actual quotation in its entirety reads: ''The really ghastly thing about trying to convey to a white man the reality of the Negro experience has nothing whatever to do with the fact of color, but has to do with this man's relationship to his own life. He will face in your life only what he is willing to face in his.'' This clumsy appropriation of a specific power relationship and its application to the sex wars in the N.Y.U. faculty lounge is just one example of how solipsistic these sections can get, and why this book, fascinating and joyfully acerbic though it may be, discomfits, even repels. If fiction casts a spell, essays exert a complicity, one that the writer must protect. The instant the reader begins to add up inconsistencies, she's started to turn against you.
Personality is the essayist's ''most dangerous and delicate tool,'' Virginia Woolf wrote. It's also the most tempting. We see its risks with Roiphe and its rewards in the year's most disheveling innovations: ''My Poets,'' by Maureen N. McLane, and ''Madness, Rack and Honey,'' by Mary Ruefle. Both books toggle between cool close readings and feverish interpretations, even deliberate distortions. Their criticism is moody and humid, kindled by lust and longing but never less than rigorous. This very essay, with its impersonality and tweediness, its claims at authority, seems dated in comparison, vulnerable. How much longer can it flourish when the fragment is more seductive than the argument, and personality is easier to convey than style? Will writers care to hide in public like this for much longer? Don't worry. The essay will surprise and survive you yet.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Essayists all, from left: Daniel Mendelsohn, James Wood, Katie Roiphe. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT MENDELSOHN
MIRIAM BERKLEY
 ANNA SCHORI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); LITERATURE (88%); WRITERS (88%); JOURNALISM (75%); RELIGION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (73%); ENGLAND (72%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



976 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE LIVES THEY LIVED; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1587 words

HEADLINE: Lessons for the Living From the Departed

BYLINE: By HUGO LINDGREN, OLIVER BURKEMAN, EDITH ZIMMERMAN, MARIA POPOVA, TYLER COWEN, LIZZY GOODMAN, MAGGIE KOERTH-BAKER, NED MARTEL and PAUL FORD

 BODY:
In the 1930s, a Frenchman named Émile Allais invented high speed on the ski slopes. Before Allais, competitive skiers used to point their tips toward each other, in a V, while they turned -- the skiing equivalent of a Nascar driver slamming on the brakes around every corner.
Allais's innovation, to keep the skis parallel while turning, wasn't unilateral -- there were others who helped bring it about. Still, his contribution to skiing qualifies as one of history's ''duh'' moments: What if we try it this way instead? By moving from caution to speed, Allais helped kick-start the modern era of sports. 
Though he was a hero in France -- he skied into his late 90s, even returning to skiing after a collision with a snowboarder -- I had never heard of Allais until his death at 100, when I saw his obituary in The Times. It was a brief but absorbing tale, and it brought into focus the reason I love a good obituary -- because in the quick study it presents of human achievement, it can be instructive, an elevated form of self-help. Of the hundreds of obituaries I read this year, Allais's was one that stuck with me, that made me see the world a little differently. In what ways are we still pointing our ski tips together?
I asked a handful of my favorite writers to pick a life lost this year that inspired them in a similar way.Ray Bradbury, b. 1920 The Untortured Artist
Shortly before his 90th birthday, when asked which moment of his life he'd return to were time travel possible, Ray Bradbury told his interviewer: ''Every. Single. Moment. Every single moment of my life has been incredible. I've loved it, I've savored it, it's been beautiful -- because I've remained a boy.'' Bradbury was a rare and necessary antidote to the tortured-genius myth -- that toxic cultural narrative that requires great creators to suffer lest their work have no depth, no gravitas, no legacy.
Bradbury left high school with plans of going to college, but no money. So he set out to educate himself by going to the library three days a week, a regimen he continued for 10 years, never romanticizing poverty or the so-called writer's life. Instead, he celebrated the joy of writing itself. In 1951, living in Los Angeles with his wife two and two infant daughters, he got a bag of dimes and rented a typewriter in the U.C.L.A. basement for 10 cents a half-hour. He wrote ''Fahrenheit 451'' for $9.80.
His secret? ''You remain invested in your inner child by exploding every day. You don't worry about the future, you don't worry about the past -- you just explode.'' MARIA POPOVASusan Jeffers, b. 1938 The Apprehensive Optimist
Our nation's self-appointed happiness experts tend to emphasize the importance of manipulating inner experience, eliminating fear and doubt, and banishing unwanted emotions and insecurities. Susan Jeffers, the unconventional self-help author, posed a radical challenge to this uniquely American philosophy of effortful cheer: What if feeling the right emotions and thinking the right thoughts were not prerequisites for doing what needed to be done? That attitude was the backbone of her most well known book, ''Feel the Fear and Do It Anyway.'' In a genre brimming with barely credible tales of triumph over adversity, her down-to-earth voice was refreshing. ''We live in a society that teaches us to grasp for control, total control, of everything,'' she writes in ''Embracing Uncertainty.'' But perhaps the grasping only makes things worse. OLIVER BURKEMANErica Kennedy, b. 1970 The Champion of Low Expectations
''I just want to be home in sweats and glasses, writing,'' the author Erica Kennedy once told The Philadelphia Inquirer. While at home in sweats, she wrote a best-selling novel, and then a follow-up, but you wouldn't necessarily know it from her Twitter bio, which reads, ''Harpy in trousers,'' with no mention of her books ''Bling'' or ''Feminista.'' ''I don't blame anyone for having high expectations of me,'' she once said, ''but it goes back to what does 'having it all' mean? Does it mean having some fancy title, executive perks, making a lot of money, having your book on The New York Times's best-seller list? Or does it mean waking up and looking forward to your day, whatever you make of it?'' For me, as for her, a good day involves writing at home in sweats, sending funny e-mails and maybe Twitter. Everything else is a bonus. EDITH ZIMMERMANSvetozar Gligoric, b. 1923 The Grandmaster, Sans Flash
Svetozar Gligoric, the Serbian and Yugoslav chess grandmaster, was among the world's top chess players for decades, though he never won a world-championship match. His memoir, ''I Play Against Pieces,'' explained his view that chess is about winning the game, not crushing another human being -- contra Bobby Fischer. He lost some crucial years of his career to World War II, when he took up arms to fight with the Partisans against the Axis powers. His opening repertory was too predictable for competition at the highest levels. But there's plenty to be said for humanism, and for being runner-up. A life should make us question what we really value -- Gligoric's brings the observer to exactly that query. TYLER COWENKitty Wells, b. 1919 The Subtle Subersive
My heroes are usually outspoken rebels prone to whiskey drinking, self-serious speeches about standing up for your convictions and great bouts of creativity followed by early death. My heroes are mostly miserable people. Except for Kitty Wells. As a happily married mother in her 30s, Wells recorded one song in 1952 about how men are dogs, ''It Wasn't God Who Made Honky Tonk Angels,'' which foretold the modern female country singer archetype. Though Wells's torchbearers -- Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn, Dolly Parton and even Taylor Swift and Carrie Underwood -- were influenced by her steely defiance, the similarities end there. Wells was demure and proper -- she wore housedresses, not rhinestones -- the perfect nonthreatening icon for early feminism in country music. Whenever I find myself winding up for a big righteous speech, I try to think of Wells, with her neat hairdo and conservative necklines, sweetly skewering another no-good man. Sometimes maximum impact requires minimum drama. LIZZY GOODMANWilliam Rathje, b. 1945 The Man Who Sought Truth in Trash
Archaeologists have long studied the trash of ancient civilizations -- pottery shards, bones and corncobs from cooking fires, broken needles, discarded deities. It wasn't until 1973 that someone turned his attention to more contemporary refuse. That year, the University of Arizona archaeologist William Rathje started the Garbage Project, a study of the contents of trash cans taken directly from the curb to his lab. The work wasn't much different from what Rathje did at ancient Mayan sites, but the implications were groundbreaking. Thanks to Rathje, we know that Americans tend to waste more food in bad economic times, buying more perishable items than necessary because they're on sale. We also know that paper -- not the more commonly vilified fast-food containers -- makes up the bulk of landfills. Rathje's work serves as a reminder of the importance of taking a scientific look into even the most quotidian phenomena. If the things we throw away contain such urgent lessons, what else are we not taking seriously enough? MAGGIE KOERTH-BAKERHarris Savides, b. 1957 The Mood Maestro
After Harris Savides died, I looked back at his body of work and came to understand how mood can mean more than narrative, how feeling can surpass fact. In the David Fincher movies ''The Game'' and ''Zodiac,'' Savides filmed club dining rooms in San Francisco and lakeside picnic spots in wine country with gilded splendor, and then slowly let menace creep into the frame. Sometimes the cinematographer made his settings overtly weird, like Rattlesnake Canyon in Gus Van Sant's ''Gerry,'' or the fetishy hellholes in the videos for Fiona Apple's ''Criminal'' or ''Closer,'' by Nine Inch Nails. Often, something grim was about to happen in places of beauty. The opening scenes of ''Birth,'' with its snowy, symphonic Central Park jog, is death made stark and pretty; after entering a dark tunnel, you barely see the man's face as he slips away.
Maybe Savides's idea was that color and light and motion need not compete with actor or score or script; they all just hang together. Of course he never explicitly told me this, but I learned a lot about subtext from Harris Savides. NED MARTELGeorge A. Miller, b. 1920 The Vocabulary Architect
I came to know the pioneering cognitive scientist George A. Miller through a program called WordNet, built under his auspices. I first downloaded it in the days of amber screens. I've never stopped using it. WordNet is like a souped-up thesaurus. It connects words along many axes, offering not just synonyms but hypernyms (a cat is a feline is a carnivore is a living thing . . .) and meronyms (a cat has a paw, which has a pad, as well as a tail that has a dock . . .). It knows that a dog is a member of a pack and that a car has an engine. It has become my favorite thesaurus, and a thesaurus is a private thing. Software is a way of seeing the world, and WordNet is a portrait of linguistic order that I find appealing: even if you can't find what you seek, it will show you many paths to other, better terms.
I saw Miller speak once at a commencement ceremony at Carnegie Mellon University, nearly a decade ago. When he was done I wanted to thank him, but I was too nervous, too shy. I found myself at a loss for words. PAUL FORD

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY CELESTE PREVOST) (MM18-MM19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (92%); SKIING (91%); WRITERS (86%); SNOWBOARDING (73%); NASCAR RACING (72%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



977 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE LIVES THEY LIVED; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Art Modell

BYLINE: By DAVE ZIRIN

 BODY:
The death of Art Modell brought with it not only tributes and tearful remembrances but also a new round of denunciations from the Cleveland Browns faithful. Modell had effectively told them to go to hell, and Cleveland Browns fans have spent the last three months returning the favor, some 17 years since he took the team from the city.
Modell was certainly neither the first nor the last owner to move a team from its home city for the sweet promise of greener, taxpayer-subsidized turf elsewhere. These stadiums, monuments to corporate welfare, grew like multimillion-dollar weeds starting in the 1990s, and Modell simply followed the money. Cleveland, like so many blue-collar cities in the '90s, was hemorrhaging jobs, young residents and hope. Many of these cities, like Pittsburgh, Detroit and, yes, Baltimore, built football stadiums in lieu of real economic-development policy. But Cleveland never believed Modell would leave, thinking the team as much a part of the landscape as the Cuyahoga. They were wrong. 
Modell, during his 35-year tenure as owner in Cleveland, became something of a civic leader. It was 1961 when the 35-year-old Modell led a group of investors to buy the team for $4 million. Over the next three decades, as Modell morphed from young upstart to respected elder, the N.F.L. grew from a peripheral form of entertainment to the nation's favorite gladiatorial spectacle. By the time he sold the team in 2003, it had increased in value by about 2,300 percent. This wasn't sheer luck. Modell played a significant role in the N.F.L.'s transformation into a leviathan.
Modell helped negotiate national television contracts for the league, which included the blackout policy that blocks games from local television if they do not sell out. The Browns were renowned for having fans buy thousands of tickets in the final hours to make sure friends and neighbors could watch the same mediocre spectacle from home. Modell, meanwhile, became a wealthy man. But perhaps his biggest windfall came with the television-revenue-sharing agreement, which split revenue equally -- something Modell supported. Over time, this created a situation wherein a team from Green Bay or Cleveland could compete with teams from New York and Chicago. Famously, Modell once described N.F.L. owners as ''26 Republicans, and we run our business like socialists.''
After winning one championship in 1964, the Browns have yet to win again. Through it all, the team sold out most games at Cleveland Stadium, a place Modell was effectively given by the city, pocketing the profits from every last beer and hot dog, and even renting it to the Indians in the off-season. When the Indians got their own stadium, depriving Modell of the extra revenue, he decided against an offer to refurbish Cleveland Stadium at taxpayer expense and left for Baltimore.
The Browns, when they moved, became yet another big business high-tailing it from Cleveland. Now there is a second Browns franchise housed in a soulless, new publicly financed stadium that cost taxpayers some $241 million. The Browns play there 10 times a year. As in other cities, the promise that it would be an economic life raft has gone unfulfilled. Unlike in other cities, the historical thread to the past has been snapped. In its place is an expansion team unable to find its footing after more than a decade, at great taxpayer expense.
Modell said upon leaving, ''I leave my heart and part of my soul in Cleveland.'' Perhaps. But Cleveland would have preferred he left the team.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: In 1995, fans in Cleveland were incensed by the team's planned exodus. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY BRIAN BAHR/GETTY
KIMBERLY BARTH/AFP/ GETTY
DAVID LIAM KYLE/SPORTS ILLUSTRATED/GETTY
 GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (89%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (75%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (73%); SPORTS REVENUES (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (68%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%)

ORGANIZATION: CLEVELAND BROWNS (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (71%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) OHIO, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (71%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



978 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Why the Economy Needs Tax Reform

 BODY:
Over the next four years, tax reform, done right, could be a cure for much of what ails the economy. Higher taxes, raised progressively, could encourage growth by helping to pay for long-neglected public investment in education, infrastructure and basic research. More revenue would also reduce budget deficits, helping to put the nation's finances on a stable path. Greater progressivity would reduce rising income inequality, and with it, inequality of opportunity that is both an economic and social scourge.
The big obstacle to comprehensive tax reform is the persistent Republican myth that spending cuts alone can achieve economic and budget goals. That notion was soundly rejected by voters during the election. Yet it still has adherents among many Republicans, which will make it that much harder for Congress to grapple with the bigger and more complex issue at the heart of tax reform: how to pay for government in the 21st century. 
The main problem is that the current tax code is incapable of raising the revenue needed to pay for the goods and services of government. Over the last four years, federal revenue as a share of the economy has fallen to its lowest level in nearly 60 years, a result of the recession, the weak recovery and a decade's worth of serial tax cuts. Even with deep spending cuts, the chronic revenue shortfall is expected to continue, swelling the federal debt -- unless taxes go up. To stabilize the debt over the next 10 years while financing more investment would require at least $1.5 trillion to $2 trillion in new revenue, above what could be raised by letting the top income tax rate revert to its pre-Bush-era level of 39.6 percent.
A logical way to help raise the additional needed revenue would be to tax capital gains at the same rates as ordinary income. Capital gains on assets held for more than a year before selling are taxed at about the lowest rate in the code, currently 15 percent and expected to rise to 20 percent in 2013. That is an indefensible giveaway to the richest Americans. Research shows that the tax breaks do not add to economic growth but do contribute to inequality. Currently, the top 1 percent of taxpayers receive more than 70 percent of all capital gains, while the bottom 80 percent receive only 6 percent.
Another sensible approach is to cap deductions at 28 percent, or to convert deductions, which disproportionately benefit high-bracket taxpayers, to tax credits, which would provide the same benefit to all taxpayers, regardless of tax bracket. President Obama must also pursue other revenue raisers, including a restoration of the estate tax, higher tax rates or surcharges on multimillion-dollar incomes, and higher corporate taxes, including an end to the deferral of tax for American companies that stash their earnings abroad.
All that would only be a start, because the new revenue would only slow the growth of the debt in the near term. After 10 years, the pressures of an aging population and health care costs would cause the debt to accelerate again.
With that in mind, Mr. Obama would be wise to instruct the Treasury Department to start work on tax reform now, exploring carbon taxes, both to raise revenue and to protect the environment; a value-added tax, coupled with provisions to protect lower-income taxpayers from higher prices, to tax consumption and encourage saving; and a financial transactions tax, to ensure that the financial sector, whose profits have substantially outpaced those of nonfinancial corporations, pay a fair share.
Not all of the proposed new taxes would gain support, but all deserve to be part of the debate. Controlling the terms of that debate, and then advancing from debate to action, could well be the toughest challenge of Mr. Obama's second term and, if met, his defining economic legacy.
The Second Term: This is part of a continuing series on what President Obama and Congress should tackle in the next four years.

GRAPHIC: GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial; Series

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX REFORM (93%); TAX LAW (91%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); RECESSION (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (76%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2013



979 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2513 words

HEADLINE: Big Dream, Rude Awakening

BYLINE: By BILL PENNINGTON

 BODY:
AMHERST, Mass. -- Hung from lampposts and tacked to bulletin boards, the maroon and white banners were everywhere this past fall on the pastoral campus of the University of Massachusetts.
''You've got to get to Gillette,'' they read in beseechingly bold lettering.
This year, UMass took the mighty step up to big-time college football, shedding its lower-level pedigree to enter the sport's highest tier, the Football Bowl Subdivision. To make the leap more concrete, UMass decided to play its home games at Gillette Stadium, the domain of the N.F.L.'s New England Patriots.
When UMass completed its Gillette home schedule last month, the campus banners -- part of nearly $3 million in new football expenditures -- had apparently gone unheeded. There were only 6,385 fans in a stadium that seats 68,756 as UMass lost, 42-21, to Central Michigan to finish the season 0-5 at home. UMass finished the season 1-11 over all and was outscored by opponents, 482-152.
Such is the big time, where the newcomers take a beating and a vast majority of established football programs lose money just like their lesser-level brethren. 
But UMass and a flock of other institutions with far-reaching football dreams -- from Texas State to Old Dominion -- are undeterred.
In an unforeseen convergence, nearly a dozen institutions of limited football renown are trying to force their way into the cutthroat, unrestrained arena dominated by college football monoliths like Alabama, Notre Dame and Oregon -- universities that will be on display as the sport's most prestigious bowl games are held over the next eight days. As many as 15 other institutions across the country are publicly or privately discussing such a move.
Big-time college football programs may have been linked recently to scandals involving illicit payments to players (Ohio State), academic improprieties (North Carolina) and child sexual abuse (Penn State), but that has not slowed a rush to join the fraternity. The institutions chasing a new football status do so with baby steps and varied circumstances, but the common journey has a visionary end -- some would call it illusionary -- and it is a wonderland of television riches, national exposure and ecstatic alumni donating money by the bushel.
''The reality is that football schools who move up a division almost always lose even more money,'' said Daniel Fulks, an accounting professor at Transylvania University who has spent the last 15 years as a research consultant for the N.C.A.A. ''There's not much defense of the economics in the short term or the long term. There are arguments for countervailing, intangible benefits -- more national exposure, more admission applications, better quality students and increased alumni donations.
''That has definitely happened in some places, but it's not a proven outcome. Some studies say it does work that way, some studies say it does not. There's the risk.''
As the president of Tulane, Scott Cowen might seem one of the winners in the pursuit of big-time football status. Cowen's institution was recently invited to join the Big East, one of the six elite college conferences that divide up the most lucrative postseason game revenues. But Cowen cautioned those universities eager to join the chase for the brass ring of college athletics.
''What any school moving up in football should ask itself is this: what are the real costs of the benefits?'' Cowen said. ''You will get more visibility and exposure, and at first, that seems like a very good investment. The problem is that once you wade in for keeps at the F.B.S. level, you face facility improvements, escalating coaching salaries, added staff and more athletic scholarships.
''The cost curve is extremely steep, and unless you're in a power conference, the revenue is flat.''
This year, Texas State and Texas-San Antonio (as a transitional member) joined UMass as first-timers in the top tier of college football. Georgia State and the University of South Alabama will make the move next year.
Old Dominion, which reinstated football in 2009, and North Carolina-Charlotte, which will play its first football game next year, will be full-time F.B.S. members in 2015. Liberty, Appalachian State and Georgia Southern would like to make the move and are awaiting an invitation from a F.B.S. conference, which is required to join the top tier. But such invitations are not hard to come by in a climate in which conferences restructure almost weekly. Other universities that have discussed taking a leap of faith upward include, among others, James Madison, Delaware, Northern Iowa, Cal-Poly, Villanova, Jacksonville State, Northern Arizona and Sam Houston State. There are already about 125 F.B.S.-level football teams.
Making the Move
The motivations for the institutions making the step up are as diverse as their locales. Adding a football team, or moving up a notch in competition, is a far different undertaking in Texas than it is in Massachusetts.
When Lynn Hickey, the director of athletics at Texas-San Antonio, was asked why her institution started playing football last year and will fully jump to the F.B.S. level next year, she said: ''We are in one of the largest cities in the nation, we had an empty dome across town and we're in a state where football is king. But in Texas, you have to play football at the highest level.''
The empty dome was the Alamodome, and Texas-San Antonio, led by the former Miami coach Larry Coker, is averaging nearly 30,000 fans at its home games.
''Our corporate sponsorship revenue has quadrupled,'' said Hickey, who added that donations have increased similarly. Like all institutions moving up, Texas-San Antonio has spent millions on football; so far, the team supports itself.
Texas is not the only football hotbed. When officials at Old Dominion began discussing the possibility of its move to F.B.S. a few years ago, they received about $3 million in pledged donations in two weeks. Old Dominion has 14,500 season-ticket holders and a waiting list of 4,500. It is considering a stadium expansion.
Adding football was more than a financial decision, said Wood Selig, the Old Dominion athletic director.
''One major reason was to assist in the effort to become more than a commuter school,'' Selig said. ''It fits with the strategic plan to groom a residential campus.''
It is also a matter of market branding. Fourteen Virginia colleges and universities compete in Division I, but only two -- the University of Virginia and Virginia Tech -- play F.B.S. football.
''To be put on the same plane as Virginia and Virginia Tech is a distinguishing point in our state,'' Selig said. ''That is how football is the driving force in college athletics today.''
Selig said the university was also aware that the N.C.A.A. previously had a moratorium on institutions moving up a class in football and that the N.C.A.A. could restore it at any time.
''We did not want to be caught on the outside looking in,'' Selig said. ''That gave us a sense of urgency.''
At North Carolina-Charlotte, Judy Rose, the athletic director, did not wait, either. She recalled when U.N.C.-Charlotte might have been able to join the Big East in 2005 but was spurned because it did not play football. The university studied the leap to F.B.S. for years but agreed to make the transition even though it meant a $45 million expenditure for a new arena and football stadium.
A large urban research institution, U.N.C.-Charlotte is also trying to shake its one-time commuter university reputation. It hopes the new football team can have a pivotal cultural impact.
''Maybe our students will stay on campus on weekends instead of going somewhere else to watch college football,'' she said.
Asked if she was worried about big-time football corrupting the priorities of the athletic department or if there was concern that U.N.C.-Charlotte was aligning itself with an ultracompetitive group where rule breaking is hardly uncommon, Rose said: ''You do have to pay more attention to football because of the numbers involved in terms of players, coaches and finances. But I'm not worried about getting in bed with any of those folks. I don't see any of them dropping football. It can be bad, and we've all seen what can happen. But when it's good, it's really good.''
Not Everyone's a Fan
At UMass, which was a national champion at the Football Championship Subdivision level (formerly Division I-AA), there is more discernible disquiet about the move up in class. For starters, many students were disappointed that the home games this fall were being contested almost 100 miles from the campus in west-central Massachusetts.
''You hear people complaining that they miss the games on campus,'' said Brian Morancy, a senior from Braintree, Mass. ''They have buses to the games, but not many people are going to give up the whole day to ride the bus.''
The crowds at UMass on-campus home games in recent years had averaged about 14,000.
Some UMass students, despite all the banners and bulletin board publicity, were unaware the football team was playing at a higher level or spending more. But others were a little miffed.
''I wasn't crazy with the amount of money they were already spending on football,'' said Glenn Larose, a junior engineering major from Chicopee, Mass. ''I'm sure the upgrade is meant to get us more publicity, but my tuition goes up 7 percent and at the same time, we're adding more football players attending for free.''
There was enough unease among the UMass faculty that the faculty senate created a 18-member ad hoc committee charged with overseeing the move to F.B.S. football. On Dec. 11, the committee delivered an interim report that maintained that UMass was now spending $8.2 million on football annually, including debt payments on a $34.5 million facility improvement. That total, the report said, is significantly higher than anticipated and more than twice what UMass spent on football before the F.B.S. transition.
The report led to a spirited debate at a faculty senate meeting, where some faculty called for UMass to go back to F.C.S. football or dissolve the program entirely in light of recent studies linking football players and brain trauma.
''We need to realize now that the move to F.B.S. football was a mistake, and we need to stop throwing good money after bad,'' said Max Page, an architecture professor and a chairman of the faculty senate ad hoc committee. ''There is now a large group of people on campus who think we shouldn't go any further and further down the rabbit hole.''
At the meeting, Audrey Alstadt, a history professor, noted that the graduate school history program could not be expanded because there was not enough money for a $20,000 teaching assistant's salary.
''But there are millions for football?'' she said.
Kumble R. Subbaswamy, in his first year as the chancellor at UMass, inherited the F.B.S. decision. He supports it as a reasonable, calculated risk.
''If managed properly, we will come out better for it,'' Subbaswamy said in an interview before the football season ended. ''There are risks to academic investments, too. When we build a new research center, it is with the hope of attracting more research grants. So that is a risk.
''It's important to keep in mind that the total athletic budget is 4 percent of our expenditures.''
Subbaswamy also did not rule out the possibility that UMass would reverse course and retreat from the F.B.S. level.
''It's a very easy matter to one day say we won't do it anymore,'' he said.
Struggles Ahead
It is, however, exceedingly rare for institutions to make that choice. Multiple institutions have dropped football, but in modern times, almost all have been F.C.S.-level teams.
The UMass athletic director, John McCutcheon, stressed patience.
''It's going to take four or five years to see a change for us,'' McCutcheon said. ''But a football team with a national profile can have transforming effects on a university. I have witnessed that.''
McCutcheon was an administrator at Boston College from 1980 to 1992, a stay that included the almost magically successful football seasons led by quarterback Doug Flutie. Soon after Flutie graduated, Boston College had an institutionwide revitalization that has come to be known as the Flutie Effect -- something cited by many universities when justifying a leap into the world of big-time athletics.
Geography could also be influencing UMass's decision-making in another way. Its nearest comparable athletic rival, the University of Connecticut, moved up to big-time football 10 years ago and has been largely successful by most measures. In 2009, UConn won in a stunning upset at Notre Dame. After the 2010 season, it played in the Fiesta Bowl.
But chasing prosperous examples likes Boston College and UConn has been a dicey path for other big-time football dreamers. For UMass, and certain other institutions, a more germane comparison might be found in western New York, at the University at Buffalo.
Buffalo moved up to what was then Division I-A in 1999 and immediately struggled, which is customary. But 13 years later, Buffalo still has had only one winning season, and that was four years ago. In the last 10 seasons, Buffalo has compiled a 33-87 record; in five seasons, it has won two games at most.
Charlie Donnor, the associate director of athletic development at Buffalo, said the benefit of the football program could not be measured solely in wins and losses.
''The purpose of F.B.S. football is to brand the university -- it gives us exposure in places we could never go before,'' said Donnor, who added that Buffalo, part of the State University of New York system, had had an increase in out-of-state students attending since 1999.
''It has had positive impact even if the road to consistent winning is a long one,'' Donnor said. ''And I know our alumni want us competing at the highest possible level.''
John Lombardi is a past chancellor at UMass and was also the president at Florida and Louisiana State, two F.B.S. football powers. In Lombardi's view, the recent rush of lesser football programs toward college football's holy grail is more of an indication that F.C.S. football, the old Division I-AA, does not work.
''Everyone in I-AA loses money and doesn't get much for it,'' Lombardi said. ''But even a crummy team in I-A football has higher visibility than a great team in I-AA. So while there are more costs to move up, the universities think that maybe they'll at least get something for it.
''Of course, it's an illusion that you can make money moving up. What they're really trying to do is align themselves with the better-known institutions.''
But Lombardi sees a brewing quandary.
''The number of F.B.S.-level football teams is already too large to be sustainable,'' he said. ''And the teams at the top are a very strong, organized group. As more schools join at the bottom, it's going to force the N.C.A.A. to restructure. They'll have to start putting F.B.S. teams into categories.
''So there will be a second tier again, and that's certainly not what a lot of these people joining now had in mind. What happens then?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Massachusetts, which moved up to the Football Bowl Subdivision this season, finished with a 1-11 record and was outscored by 482-152. (SP1)
UMass, which absorbed nearly $3 million in new expenditures, played its home games at a mostly empty Gillette Stadium in Foxborough. It was 0-5 there.
 There is some concern about the move up in class at UMass, which was a national champion at the Football Championship Subdivision level. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ERIK JACOBS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (77%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SPORTS CAMPS & SCHOOLS (76%); SPORTS & RECREATION (76%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (76%); SPORTS FANS (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (69%); CHILD ABUSE (69%); ALUMNI (64%); SCANDALS (62%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MASSACHUSETTS (94%); NEW ENGLAND PATRIOTS (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013



980 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: Building Congregations Around Art Galleries and Cafes as Spirituality Wanes

BYLINE: By AMY O'LEARY

 BODY:
DALLAS -- The mural painted on the side of a building in the Deep Ellum warehouse district here is intentionally vague, simply showing a faceless man in a suit holding an umbrella over the words ''Life in Deep Ellum.'' Inside there are the trappings of a revitalization project, including an art gallery, a yoga studio and a business incubator, sharing the building with a coffee shop and a performance space.
But it is, in fact, a church.
Life in Deep Ellum is part of a wave of experimentation around the country by evangelicals to reinvent ''church'' in an increasingly secular culture, and it comes as the megachurch boom of recent decades, with stadium seating for huge crowds, Jumbotrons and smoke machines, faces strong headwinds. A national decline in church attendance, the struggling economy and the challenges of marketing to millennials have all led to the need for new approaches. 
''It's unsettling for a movement that's lasted 2,000 years to now find that, 'Oh, some of the things we always assumed would connect with the community aren't connecting with everyone in the community in the way they used to,' '' said Warren Bird, the director of research for the Leadership Network, a firm that tracks church trends.
According to a recent report by the Pew Research Center, the percentage of Americans who are not affiliated with any religion is on the rise, including a third of Americans under 30. Even so, 68 percent of unaffiliated Americans say they believe in God, and 41 percent say they pray at least once a month.
The ''spiritual but not religious'' category is an important audience that evangelical leaders hope to reach in a culture that many believers call ''post-Christian.''
So they arrange meetings in movie theaters, schools, warehouses and downtown entertainment districts. They house exercise studios and coffee shops to draw more traffic. Many have even cast aside the words ''church'' and ''church service'' in favor of terms like ''spiritual communities'' and ''gatherings,'' with services that do not stick to any script.
One Sunday before Easter, the pastor at the Relevant Church in Tampa, Fla., wearing a rabbit suit, whisked the unsuspecting congregation away on chartered buses to a nearby park to build enthusiasm for the coming service.
''For us, it's all about being interactive,'' said Paul Wirth, Relevant's founder and lead pastor.
Although the number of evangelical churches in the United States declined for many years, the trend reversed in 2006, with more new churches opening each year since, according to the Leadership Network's most recent surveys. This wave of ''church planting'' has been highest among nondenominational pastors, free to experiment outside traditional hierarchies.
''I hear a lot of pastors say, 'I'm not just trying to be creative and avant-garde, I think this is maybe the last chance for me,' '' said Doug Pagitt, the founder of Solomon's Porch in Minneapolis.
Mr. Pagitt has written several books on church innovations, many of which were first developed in the ''emergent'' church movement of the last decade or among ''missional'' churches whose practices focus on life outside the church.
Many of their innovations are being adopted by an increasing number of pastors in the mainstream.
For new leaders coming out of seminary, ''the cool thing is church planting,'' Mr. Bird said. ''The uncool thing is to go into the established church. Why that has taken over may speak to the entrepreneurialism and innovation that today's generation represents.''
That generation includes Mark Batterson, the 43-year-old pastor of National Community Church in Washington.
''If the kingdom of God had departments, we'd want to work in research and development,'' Mr. Batterson said.
With 3,000 members, National Community Church is technically a megachurch, according to religion scholars, for whom any congregation over 2,000 qualifies. But with a high turnover rate of nearly 40 percent a year, its continued growth is a noteworthy feat.
Sunday services are held in six locations, mostly movie theaters, where the smell of Saturday night's popcorn hangs in the air as prerecorded sermons play on the big screen.
The church also runs a coffee shop called Ebenezers near Union Station, where its religious affiliation is hard to detect. Until it ran out of room, it used to hold services in the basement, drawing new members from the coffee drinkers who wandered downstairs to investigate the music.
For Mr. Batterson, the strategy has biblical roots.
''We felt like Jesus didn't hang out at the synagogue, he hung out at wells,'' he said. ''Coffeehouses are postmodern wells. Let's not wait for people to come to us, let's go to them.''
The church has fielded hundreds of requests from other pastors for insights about its approach, and it has plans to franchise Ebenezers, first in Charlotte, N.C.
These kinds of locations -- urban, multipurpose and with plenty of foot traffic -- are favored sites, in part because they are less expensive to operate than a sprawling suburban campus. Coffee shops, too, help generate revenue, as do space rentals.
Today, younger pastors are less willing to try to finance multimillion-dollar churches with debt. After the recession, there was a surge in church foreclosures, reaching record highs in 2010 and 2011. Since 2008, more than 300 church properties have been sold after defaulting on their loans, according to the CoStar Group, a real estate information firm.
Building professionals who work with churches say they have seen these shifts firsthand.
''Every generation wants their own thing,'' said Houston Clark, whose company designs spaces and audiovisual systems for churches nationwide. ''Kids in their late 20s to midteens now, they really crave intimacy and authenticity. They want high-quality experiences, but don't necessarily want them in huge voluminous buildings.''
Five years ago, Mr. Clark said, 90 percent of his business was installing expensive lighting and sound systems for megachurches that could hold up to 5,000. But today, 70 percent of his business is working on existing buildings, like warehouses, to renovate the interiors as multipurpose spaces for churches to operate.
It is a trend that even established megachurches, like Bent Tree Bible Fellowship in Carrollton, Tex., are studying. After paying off $5 million in debt on its 135,000-square-foot facility last year, the church is again seeking to expand. But instead of building another huge campus, church officials are looking at smaller satellite spaces that can operate seven days a week, with services like child care, shared office spaces and a community theater.
''That's a significant difference for us,'' said Paul Miller, the pastor of ministries for Bent Tree. ''We're really building a community center, more than we are a worship center.''
That strategy, blending religion with everyday activities, disarms people put off by traditional notions of church, said Scott L. Thumma, a professor at the Hartford Institute for Religion Research.
''It's pretty low risk to wander into a bar or movie theater or hotel,'' Professor Thumma said. ''It ends up delivering the message of relevance: we're just like you, we're struggling, we might have a beer together -- and our faith is also relevant.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Top, the house band started a service one recent Sunday at the Life in Deep Ellum church in Dallas. Above, Rachel Triska, the church's executive director. Right, Joel Triska, its lead pastor. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ALLISON V. SMITH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A21) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); RELIGION (89%); TRENDS (88%); FILM (76%); YOGA (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013



981 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2073 words

HEADLINE: An Idea Promised the Sky, but India Is Still Waiting

BYLINE: By PAMPOSH RAINA, IAN AUSTEN and HEATHER TIMMONS; Pamposh Raina reported from New Delhi and Amritsar, India, Ian Austen from Montreal and Heather Timmons from New Delhi. Mia Li contributed reporting from Beijing.

 BODY:
NEW DELHI -- The idea was, and still is, captivating: in 2011, the Indian government and two Indian-born tech entrepreneurs unveiled a $50 tablet computer, to be built in India with Google's free Android software. The government would buy the computers by the millions and give them to its schoolchildren.
Enthusiasts saw the plan as a way to bring modern touch-screen computing to some of the world's poorest people while seeding a technology manufacturing industry in India. Legions of customers placed advance orders for a commercial version of the tablet, thrilled at the prospect of owning tangible proof that India was a leader in ''frugal innovation.''
Even the secretary general of the United Nations, Ban Ki-moon, lavished praise on the audacious project, called Aakash, the Hindi word for sky. ''India is a superpower on the information superhighway,'' Mr. Ban said at a ceremony in November at the United Nations headquarters in New York. 
Stoking expectations was Suneet Singh Tuli, the charismatic C.E.O. of the small London-based company that won the bid. ''I am creating a product at a lower price than anyone else in the world with the hope that it impacts people's lives and I make money out of it,'' he said in a recent interview.
But over the last few months, it has become increasingly evident that Mr. Tuli, 44, and his older brother, Raja Singh Tuli, 46, are unable to deliver on most of their ambitious promises.
The Tulis acknowledge that their company, DataWind, will not even come close to shipping the 100,000 tablets it has promised to India's colleges and universities before its year-end deadline. Most of the 10,000 or so tablets delivered through early December were made in China, despite the company's early pledge to manufacture in India. Financial statements filed with British regulators show that the company is deeply in the red.
And the project's entire premise -- that India can make a cheap tablet computer that will somehow make up for failures of the country's crippled education system -- is fundamentally flawed, according to some experts in education and manufacturing.
Leigh L. Linden, an assistant professor of economics and public affairs at the University of Texas at Austin who has studied the use of technology in schools in India and other developing countries, said that, at best, computers merely match the performance gains from far less costly projects that involve hiring additional teachers or teaching assistants. And in some cases, Professor Linden said, the introduction of computers can actually lower students' test results.
''Based on the available research,'' he said, ''this would not be the most effective strategy for education in developing countries.''
The notion that India's weak manufacturing sector can catch up to China in advanced computer hardware also strikes some experts as far-fetched. ''China became the manufacturing center of the world, and India missed that boat,'' said Surjit S. Bhalla, an economist and managing director of Oxus Investments.
So far, the Indian government is standing firmly behind the project.
''All pathbreaking ideas do look too ambitious when conceived,'' the Ministry of Human Resource Development, which oversees the Aakash project, said in an e-mailed statement. Aakash is ''an all-encompassing project,'' not just the creation of a tablet computer, the ministry said. With it, the government plans to create ''an entire manufacturing ecosystem'' in India.
Interviews with DataWind executives, government officials, Chinese manufacturers, business partners and former and current employees paint a picture of a small family company that was overwhelmed by a complex project that even China's cutthroat technology manufacturers would find challenging to execute at the price expected by the government.
Leading a tour last month of the company's small touch-screen factory in downtown Montreal, Raja Tuli, DataWind's co-chairman and chief technology officer, said he had initially opposed his brother's desire to bid on the Aakash contract, and he expressed lingering regrets.
''We got stuck in it,'' he said. ''We're doing our best.''
DataWind's real goal, Mr. Tuli said, is to sell low-cost wireless Internet access for tablets in developing countries like India. He said DataWind's proprietary data compression technology, which made its debut in Britain years ago with a device called the PocketSurfer, efficiently delivers Web pages over older, slower cellphone networks.
''Our biggest contribution is our software,'' Mr. Tuli said. ''The fact that we're making the actual hardware is a sideline that we got into in the process. We never meant to do it, but here we are.''
For India's government, the Aakash project was supposed to usher in a computer revolution.
Although India pioneered the information technology outsourcing business, and still does much of the computing work for many big companies, only a small portion of the population has access to computers or the Internet.
Others had tried to bring cheap computing to developing countries like India -- most notably the One Laptop Per Child project. Founded by Nicholas Negroponte of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and backed by a host of Western technology companies, that effort aimed to bring $100 laptops to children around the world but faltered amid a host of technical, manufacturing and competitive challenges.
''This is our answer to M.I.T.'s $100 computer,'' said Kapil Sibal, the minister of communications and information technology, when he announced the Aakash project in 2010.
Suneet Tuli, whose family emigrated from India to Canada when he was a boy, certainly bought into that vision. Just as the huge drop in the price of mobile calling prompted a communications revolution in India, a cheap tablet could transform India's classrooms and eventually all of the country's poor, he said in an interview in October 2011.
In India, ''there are one billion people left out,'' he said, ''and the way to include them is lower the price.''
But DataWind was in over its head from the start.
The government's specifications were challenging, and none of India's information technology giants, like HCL or Wipro, competed for the contract. DataWind made the lowest bid, promising to supply the tablets for 2,276 rupees, including delivery -- about $50 at exchange rates at the time, and about $40 now.
In a recent interview, Suneet Tuli said DataWind figured that it could cut costs by improving on standard industry designs and by making touch screens itself, in Canada, at a lower price than it could buy them in China.
In a fateful decision, Mr. Tuli also promised to build the tablet in India, even though the country's manufacturers had no real experience in building such hardware. While not required by the government, the pledge added to the patriotic fervor surrounding the project and generated publicity for DataWind's plan to sell more expensive commercial tablets and $2-a-month wireless Internet service to the public.
Rather than build its own plants, DataWind sought out Indian partners, starting with Quad Electronic, from Andhra Pradesh, which had made cash registers, electronic typewriters and printers but never tablets.
Within months, though, the two had parted ways.
According to Suneet Tuli, the problems started when the university overseeing the project rejected the early tablets and demanded improvements. The relationship collapsed after DataWind discovered that Quad planned to produce a rival tablet, he said.
But Raminder Singh Soin, Quad's managing director, said DataWind's product ''was not good enough.'' ''Many things were missing in the Aakash tablet,'' he said in a phone interview this month, noting that its microprocessor could not support the tablet's advertised features.
Mr. Soin said DataWind never paid for the tablets Quad did produce, or for the components Quad bought to build an additional 30,000 units. He estimates that the failed partnership cost him 150 million rupees, or about $3 million. Suneet Tuli said DataWind didn't owe Quad any money.
Compounding DataWind's problems, the company started taking orders for the commercial version of its tablet, the UbiSlate, just a week after unveiling the Aakash tablet. Within six weeks, it had 300,000 orders, Suneet Tuli said in an interview in early 2012. Last month, he said, orders for the UbiSlate tablets had reached about four million.
Yet DataWind still lacks the manufacturing, marketing and customer service capacity to handle even a substantial fraction of those orders. A result has been a wave of customer fury.
Edwin Richard Toppo, 25, a human resources professional in Delhi, placed an order in August for an UbiSlate. Weeks after he received the tablet, he said in a phone interview, its two USB ports stopped working. Then the slot for a SIM card went dead, and now the touch screen is unresponsive, he said.
''It's like a dummy,'' Mr. Toppo said, adding that several dozen calls to DataWind customer support went unanswered.
In a recent interview, Suneet Tuli acknowledged that the company has struggled. ''Unfortunately, the scale of everything here has been beyond our imagination,'' he said.
DataWind is trying to prioritize orders, he said, delivering about 2,500 tablets a day and offering refunds to people who don't want to wait. Customers ''will get a world-class product, I think, at a fraction of the price,'' he added.
To help clear the huge backlog of orders, DataWind said it had signed up four new Indian partners to help make the tablets.
Still, the company won't meet the Dec. 31 deadline to deliver 100,000 tablets to the Indian government. It recently received an extension until March 31, and Raja Tuli said he expects DataWind to fulfill the government contract by that time.
In an attempt to meet its commitments, the company moved production to China in the fall. At least three Chinese companies have been manufacturing an improved tablet, known as Aakash-2, for DataWind, and shipped thousands to India, according to interviews with Chinese manufacturers and documents reviewed by The New York Times.
Officials at the Chinese companies, who said they make as little as $1 in profit on each tablet, expressed doubts that India would ever be able to compete in electronics manufacturing.
''DataWind's tablets can be made in Shenzhen, but not in India, because Shenzhen has a fully developed industry chain,'' said a project manager with Kalong Technology, one of the companies, who spoke on the condition that his full name not be used, because he wanted to avoid media attention. ''It's just like, if you want to open a bakery, you need to know where to get the best flour both near you and at a good price.''
A recent visit to DataWind's three-story Indian plant in the Amritsar neighborhood known as Ghee Mandi showed just how far the company has to go.
On the ground floor, rows of brown shipping boxes were piled atop one another, some printed with ''Easydy,'' the name of a Shenzhen tablet manufacturing company. Ibadat Singh, DataWind's vice president for operations, said DataWind was not buying finished tablets from China, but just recycling boxes that happened to come from there. ''Why use new boxes?'' he said.
Two floors up, 16 men at a rectangular table were programming tablets and adding standard applications, Mr. Singh said. One man was working on an opened tablet with a big green screwdriver. Others were soldering wires or testing units. One man diligently wrapped tablets in Bubble Wrap and packed them into white boxes.
The factory makes about 1,000 units a day, Mr. Singh said. Each tablet takes five minutes to assemble and two to program. It's so easy, he told a reporter, ''even you can do it.''
During the November interview in Montreal, however, Raja Tuli described the difficulties of manufacturing in India, citing issues like prolonged border delays and poor infrastructure.
''Listen, it's obviously easier in China just because the whole infrastructure is set up, capital is so much cheaper,'' he said. ''In India, it can be done but the process is longer.''
He declined to say whether DataWind would bid on future Aakash supply contracts from the government. But he said the company would not abandon its plans to build and sell inexpensive tablets in India.
''We're not going to give up because of these little issues,'' he said. ''We're committed to it. Always in life, it's tougher than you think it was going to be.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A prototype tablet is assembled at a DataWind site in Montreal. The company's plan to invigorate India's electronics manufacturing by producing low-cost tablets for students has gone awry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU1)
DataWind planned to make Aakash-2 tablets not at its own site, top left and right, but in India. The idea was praised by the Ban Ki-moon, the United Nations secretary general, at left above with India's United Nations representative, Hardeep Singh Puri, center, and Data- Wind's chief, Suneet Singh Tuli. But most of the tablets have been made in China. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTINNE MUSCHI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (88%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (86%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (77%); POOR POPULATION (76%); INTERVIEWS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (72%); CHILDREN (71%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (68%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); PARAEDUCATORS (64%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (93%)

PERSON: BAN KI-MOON (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (92%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2013



982 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1581 words

HEADLINE: Senate Leaders Racing to Beat Fiscal Deadline

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR and ANNIE LOWREY; Robert Pear and Jennifer Steinhauer contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senate leaders and their aides spent Saturday searching for a formula to extend tax cuts for most Americans that could win bipartisan support in the Senate and final approval in the fractious House by the new year, hoping to prevent large tax increases and budget cuts that could threaten the fragile economy.
As part of the last-minute negotiations, the lawmakers were haggling over unemployment benefits, cuts in Medicare payments to doctors, taxes on large inheritances and how to limit the impact of the alternative minimum tax, a parallel income tax system that is intended to ensure the rich pay a fair share but that is increasingly encroaching on the middle class.
President Obama said that if talks between the Senate leaders broke down, he wanted the Senate to schedule an up-or-down vote on a narrower measure that would extend only the middle-class tax breaks and unemployment benefits. The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said he would schedule such a vote on Monday absent a deal. 
If Congress is unable to act before the new year, Washington will effectively usher in a series of automatic tax increases and a program of drastic spending cuts that economists say could pitch the country back into recession.
The president and lawmakers put those spending cuts in place this year as draconian incentives that would force them to confront the nation's growing debt. Now, lawmakers are trying to keep them from happening, though it seemed most likely on Saturday that the cuts, known as sequestration, would be left for the next Congress, to be sworn in this week.
''We just can't afford a politically self-inflicted wound to our economy,'' Mr. Obama said Saturday in his weekly address. ''The housing market is healing, but that could stall if folks are seeing smaller paychecks. The unemployment rate is the lowest it's been since 2008, but already families and businesses are starting to hold back because of the dysfunction they see in Washington.''
The fear of another painful economic slowdown appears to have accelerated deal-making on Capitol Hill with just 48 hours left before the so-called fiscal cliff arrives. Weeks of public sniping between Mr. Reid, the Democratic leader, and Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader, ebbed on Friday evening with pledges of cooperation and optimism from both.
On Saturday, though, that sentiment was put to the test as 98 senators waited for word whether their leaders had come up with a proposal that might pass muster with members of both parties. The first votes in the Senate, if needed, are scheduled for Sunday afternoon.
''It's a little like playing Russian roulette with the economy,'' said Senator Mark Warner, Democrat of Virginia. ''The consequences could be enormous.''
Members of Congress were mostly absent from the Capitol on Saturday, after two days of Senate votes on other matters and a day before both chambers were to reconvene. However, senior aides were working on proposals in their offices or at their homes.
Speaker John A. Boehner stopped by the Capitol briefly to see his chief of staff on Saturday afternoon. Mr. McConnell spent much of the day in his office.
Aides to Mr. Reid were expecting to receive offers from Mr. McConnell's staff, but no progress was reported by midday. Even if the talks took a positive turn, Senate aides said, no announcement was expected before the leaders briefed their caucuses on Sunday.
The chief sticking point among lawmakers and the president continued to be how to set tax rates for the next decade and beyond. With the Bush-era tax cuts expiring, Mr. Obama and Democrats have said they want tax rates to rise on income over $250,000 a year, while Republicans want a higher threshold, perhaps at $400,000.
Democrats and Republicans are also divided on the tax on inherited estates, which currently hits inheritances over $5 million at 35 percent. On Jan. 1, it is scheduled to rise to 55 percent beginning with inheritances exceeding $1 million.
The political drama in Washington over the weekend was given greater urgency by the fear that the economic gains of the past two years could be lost if no deal is reached.
Some of the consequences of Congressional inaction would be felt almost at once on Tuesday, in employee paychecks, doctors' offices and financial markets. Analysts said the effect would be cumulative, building over time.
An early barometer would probably be the financial markets, where skittish investors, as they have during previous Congressional cliffhangers, could send the stock market lower on fears of another prolonged period of economic distress.
In 2011, the political battles over whether to raise the nation's borrowing limit prompted Standard & Poor's to downgrade its rating of American debt, suggesting a higher risk of default. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 635 points in a volatile day of trading after the downgrade.
This month, traders have again nervously watched the political maneuvering in Washington, and the markets have jumped or dropped at tidbits of news from the negotiations. Two weeks ago, Ben S. Bernanke, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, predicted that if lawmakers failed to reach a deal, ''the economy will, I think, go off the cliff.''
Immediately -- regardless of whether a deal is reached -- every working American's taxes will go up because neither party is fighting to extend a Social Security payroll tax cut that has been in place for two years.
But failure to reach a broader deal on taxes and spending would increase taxes even further, returning rates to Clinton-era levels. January paychecks would shrink as employers start withholding more for taxes.
Many families would also suffer if Congress failed to extend emergency jobless benefits, meaning that 2.1 million Americans would abruptly stop receiving expected payments.
''There's going to be a hit to people who don't have much capacity to absorb a hit,'' said Christine L. Owens of the National Employment Law Project. ''A lot of families are going to be in a bad place, not being able to pay their rent, or their mortgage, or their bills.''
In short order, such changes are expected to dampen consumer confidence and spending, with potentially grave consequences for an economy already struggling to recover momentum.
''Every day that goes by is this needless self-flagellation,'' said Stuart G. Hoffman, the chief economist of PNC Financial Services Group, who estimated that the tax increases and loss of unemployment benefits would reduce take-home pay by $9 billion a week.
The fallout would continue to worsen if the inaction and stalemate continue into late January.
Tens of millions of families would probably be ensnared by the alternative minimum tax, raising their 2012 tax bill and potentially throwing the coming tax season into disarray. This month, the Internal Revenue Service warned that as many as 100 million filers, out of 150 million, could be affected. Analysts said the I.R.S. might have to delay the start of filing season and the delivery of expected refund checks.
Again, the lowest-income families are expected to be hit the hardest. ''Those early filers, 95 percent of them are expecting a healthy refund early in the year,'' said Mark Steber, the chief tax officer of Jackson Hewitt.
Come mid-January, some Medicare patients also might struggle to find doctors to treat them. Without Congressional action, doctors would face two cuts to reimbursement rates: a 26.5 percent reduction in Medicare payment rates from a 1997 law, and a further 2 percent cut adopted to reduce the deficit last year.
''I feel I am being held hostage,'' said Lee R. Rovik, 70, a Medicare beneficiary in Camdenton, Mo. A sign at his doctor's office warns that it might have to close if Congress does not fix the Medicare payment formula.
''Politicians don't give a damn about me or the doctor,'' Mr. Rovik said. ''If the clinic goes out of business, which is entirely possible, where will we go?''
By late February or early March, lawmakers would face another economic showdown over raising the nation's borrowing limit again to avoid a cash-management crisis and a government shutdown. Republicans have already said they intend to use the Congressional authority to increase the so-called debt ceiling to extract cuts from entitlement programs -- a threat Mr. Obama has said he will resist.
Around the same time, the government and its workers would begin feeling the cuts to defense and domestic spending.
Without a compromise, the Pentagon and its civilian contractors would face steep reductions in virtually every program. Military officials said those spending reductions -- $500 billion over 10 years -- would eventually force the canceling or shrinking of projects and large-scale layoffs of military and civilian personnel.
Hundreds of other federal programs would see cuts, beginning in late January. These include reductions of about 8 percent in the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children; the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program; and rental housing assistance.
Economists said the spending cuts and tax increases by themselves would smother the recovery. Analysts fear that the economic disruption and political flailing could spook financial markets, amplifying the pain.
''It would be a triple whammy,'' said Mr. Hoffman of PNC, referring to the tax hikes, spending cuts and confidence effects. ''Actually, as many whammies as you could come up with.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Speaker John A. Boehner visited Capitol Hill briefly on Saturday as Senate leaders tried to devise a plan the House would pass. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LUKE SHARRETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A20) CHART: Changes Set to Occur if Congress Takes No Action: Several tax and spending changes will occur over the next year if the White House and Congress fail to reach a deal to avert them. (Sources: Bipartisan Policy Center
the Committee for a Responsible Federal Budget
 Tax Policy Center) (A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); APPROVALS (77%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); BUDGET CUTS (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); MEDICARE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%); HARRY REID (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%); MARK WARNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



983 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Bad Math And the Middle Class

BYLINE: By N. GREGORY MANKIW. 
N. Gregory Mankiw is a professor of economics at Harvard. He was an adviser to Mitt Romney in the 2012 presidential campaign.

 BODY:
IN the continuing fiscal negotiations between President Obama and House Republicans, both sides have, from the very beginning, agreed on one point: Taxes on the middle class must not rise. But maybe it's time to reconsider this premise. An unwavering commitment to keep middle-class taxes low could be one reason the political process has become so deeply dysfunctional.
Let's start with the problem: the budget deficit. Under current policy, the federal government is spending vastly more than it is collecting in tax revenue. And that will be true for the next several decades, thanks largely to the growth in entitlement spending that will occur automatically as the population ages and health care costs increase. As a result, the ratio of government debt to the nation's gross domestic product is projected to rise, substantially and without an end in sight. 
That can happen for a while, or even a long while, but not forever. At some point, investors at home and abroad will start questioning our ability to service our debts without creating steep inflation. It's hard to say precisely when this shift in investor sentiment will occur, and even whether it will strike in this president's term or the next, but when it does, it won't be pretty. The United States will find itself at the brink of an unprecedented financial crisis.
Republicans and Democrats agree on the nature of the problem, but they embrace very different solutions. My fear is that both sides are engaged in an excess of wishful thinking, with a dash of mendacity.
If Republicans had their way, they would focus the entire solution on the spending side. They say that reform of the entitlement programs can reduce their cost. The so-called premium-support plan for Medicare, from Paul D. Ryan, the 2012 Republican vice-presidential candidate, would let older Americans use their health care dollars to buy insurance from competing private plans. (Interestingly, it's similar to the system envisioned for the nonelderly by President Obama's Affordable Care Act.) The hope is that competition and choice would keep health care costs down without sacrificing quality.
The premium-support model may well be better than the current Medicare system, but its supporters oversell what it would be likely to accomplish. The primary driver of increasing health care costs over time is new technology, which extends and improves the quality of life, but often at high cost. Unless the pace or nature of medical innovation changes, this trend is likely to continue, regardless of structural reforms we enact for Medicare.
Democrats, meanwhile, want to preserve the social safety net pretty much as is. They balk at any attempt to reduce this spending, including even modest changes like altering the price index used to calculate Social Security benefits. They focus their attention on raising taxes on the most financially successful Americans, contending that the rich are not paying their ''fair share.''
Fairness, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder. Unfortunately, people's judgment is often based on anecdotes that distort rather than illuminate. The story of the undertaxed Warren Buffett and his overtaxed secretary looms larger in the public's mind than it should.
Here are some facts, so you can judge for yourself:
In 2009, the most recent year for which data are available, the richest 1 percent of Americans paid 28.9 percent of their income in federal taxes, according to the Congressional Budget Office. (That includes income taxes, both individual and corporate, and payroll taxes.) Members of the middle class, defined as the middle fifth of households, paid 11.1 percent of their income in taxes.
Some of this difference in tax rates is attributable to temporary tax changes passed in response to the recent recession. But not all. In 2006, before the financial crisis, the top 1 percent paid 30 percent of their income in taxes, compared with 13.9 percent for the middle class.
These data suggest that the rich are not, as a general matter, shirking their responsibilities to support the federal government. To me, the current tax system looks plenty progressive. Others may disagree.
One point, however, cannot be disputed: Even if President Obama wins all the tax increases on the rich that he is asking for, the long-term fiscal picture will still look grim. Perhaps we can stabilize the situation for a few years just by taxing the rich, but as greater numbers of baby boomers retire and start collecting Social Security and Medicare, more will need to be done.
Which brings us back to the middle class. When President Obama talks about taxing the rich, he means the top 2 percent of Americans. John A. Boehner, the House speaker, talks about an even thinner slice. But the current and future fiscal imbalances are too large to exempt 98 percent or more of the public from being part of the solution.
Ultimately, unless we scale back entitlement programs far more than anyone in Washington is now seriously considering, we will have no choice but to increase taxes on a vast majority of Americans. This could involve higher tax rates or an elimination of popular deductions. Or it could mean an entirely new tax, such as a value-added tax or a carbon tax.
To be sure, the path ahead is not easy. No politician who wants to be re-elected is eager to entertain the possibility of higher taxes on the middle class. But fiscal negotiations might become a bit easier if everyone started by agreeing that the policies we choose must be constrained by the laws of arithmetic.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL MARSICANO) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); MEDICARE (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (78%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); POLITICS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (62%)

PERSON: PAUL RYAN (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



984 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 839 words

HEADLINE: Disruptions: The Real Hazards of E-Devices on Planes

BYLINE: NICK BILTON


HIGHLIGHT: If the Federal Aviation Administration does not re-evaluate its ban on device use during takeoff and landing, someone will be hurt, but not because of interference with the plane's avionics. 

 BODY:
Over the last year, flying with phones and other devices has become increasingly dangerous.
In September, a passenger was arrested in El Paso after refusing to turn off his cellphone as the plane was landing. In October, a man in Chicago was arrested because he used his iPad during takeoff. In November, half a dozen police cars raced across the tarmac at La Guardia Airport in New York, surrounding a plane as if there were a terrorist on board. They arrested a 30-year-old man who had also refused to turn off his phone while on the runway.
Who is to blame in these episodes? You can't solely pin it on the passengers. Some of the responsibility falls on the Federal Aviation Administration, for continuing to uphold a rule that is based on the unproven idea that a phone or tablet can interfere with the operation of a plane. 
These conflicts have been going on for several years. In 2010, a 68-year-old man punched a teenager because he didn't turn off his phone. Lt. Kent Lipple of the Boise Police Department in Idaho, who arrested the puncher, said the man "felt he was protecting the entire plane and its occupants." And let's not forget Alec Baldwin, who was kicked off an American Airlines plane in 2011 for playing Words With Friends online while parked at the gate.
Dealing with the F.A.A. on this topic is like arguing with a stubborn teenager. The agency has no proof that electronic devices can harm a plane's avionics, but it still perpetuates such claims, spreading irrational fear among millions of fliers.
A year ago, when I first asked Les Dorr, a spokesman for the F.A.A., why the rule existed, he said the agency was being cautious because there was no proof that device use was completely safe. He also said it was because passengers needed to pay attention during takeoff.
When I asked why I can read a printed book but not a digital one, the agency changed its reasoning. I was told by another F.A.A. representative that it was because an iPad or Kindle could put out enough electromagnetic emissions to disrupt the flight. Yet a few weeks later, the F.A.A. proudly announced that pilots could now use iPads in the cockpit instead of paper flight manuals.
The F.A.A. then told me that "two iPads are very different than 200." But experts at EMT Labs, an independent testing facility in Mountain View, Calif., say there is no difference in radio output between two iPads and 200. "Electromagnetic energy doesn't add up like that," said Kevin Bothmann, the EMT Labs testing manager.
It's not a matter of a flying device hitting another passenger, either. Kindles weigh less than six ounces; Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs weighs 2.1 pounds in hardcover. I'd rather be hit in the head by an iPad Mini than a 650-page book.
In October, after months of pressure from the public and the news media, the F.A.A. finally said it would begin a review of its policies on electronic devices in all phases of flight, including takeoff and landing. But the agency does not have a set time frame for announcing its findings.
An F.A.A. spokeswoman told me last week that the agency was preparing to move to the next phase of its work in this area, and would appoint members to a rule-making committee that will begin meeting in January.
The F.A.A. should check out an annual report issued by NASA that compiles cases involving electronic devices on planes. None of those episodes have produced scientific evidence that a device can harm a plane's operation. Reports of such interference have been purely speculation by pilots about the cause of a problem.
Other government agencies and elected officials are finally getting involved.
This December, Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, sent a letter to the F.A.A. telling the agency that it had a responsibility to "enable greater use of tablets, e-readers and other portable devices" during flights, as they empower people and allow "both large and small businesses to be more productive and efficient, helping drive economic growth and boost U.S. competitiveness."
A week later, Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, also sent a letter to the F.A.A. noting that the public was "growing increasingly skeptical of prohibitions" on devices on airplanes. She warned that she was "prepared to pursue legislative solutions should progress be made too slowly."
If progress is slow, there will eventually be an episode on a plane in which someone is seriously harmed as a result of a device being on during takeoff. But it won't be because the device is interfering with the plane's systems. Instead, it will be because one passenger harms another, believing they are protecting the plane from a Kindle, which produces fewer electromagnetic emissions than a calculator.
 E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com 

        
F.C.C. Calls on F.A.A. to Allow Electronics on Planes
        
Disruptions: Time to Review F.A.A. Policy on Gadgets
        
F.A.A. Approves iPads in Cockpits, but Not for Passengers
        
Words With Friends: A Danger to American Skies?
        
It's Called 'Airplane Mode' for a Reason

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CIVIL AVIATION (95%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (95%); ARRESTS (91%); AIRLINES (90%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (90%); TABLET COMPUTERS (90%); AVIONICS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); SMARTPHONES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); HANDHELD COMPUTERS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (70%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (66%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (63%); TEST LABORATORIES (63%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) airlines; airplanes; ereaders; f.a.a.; FAA; Tablets; Airlines and Airplanes; Handheld Computers; iPad; Smartphones; Tablet Computers; Federal Aviation Administration; United States; Devices; Policy

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Aviation Administration

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (50%); ALEC BALDWIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); IDAHO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



985 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(IHT Rendezvous)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012

SECTION: WORLD

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: How to Blog Asia for the MSM

BYLINE: MARCUS MABRY


HIGHLIGHT: A look back at the work of Mark McDonald, our main Asia blogger since we launched. Mark is leaving his blog duties but he is not going far. Then again, when you cover the world like Mark and Rendezvous do, there is no "far." 

 BODY:
If you're a close reader of IHT Rendezvous, you're jonesing for a fix of Mark McDonald right about now. Our peripatetic Asia blogger's last day writing was Wednesday. He's moving on to other assignments. We'll miss him. 
Since Rendezvous began in January, Asia has been one of the two main focuses of our coverage and our audience. Indeed, before the Great Firewall began the shutout of nearly all content from The New York Times, the International Herald Tribune and Rendezvous, China was Rendezvous's third country by audience - we had more readers only in the United States and Canada.
Moreover, China posts dominate our Top 20 most-read and most-commented on posts. Here are our Asia Top 10 of 2012.
The driving force behind that coverage and most of those posts was Mark McDonald. 
When Rendezvous began, our goal was to connect and engage with intelligent readers with a passionate interest in global affairs. We aimed to host the International Herald Tribune's corner of the global conversation taking place on the Web, reporting on things that mattered to those readers - and pointing to the best of others' reporting on them: from politics and economics to sports and the arts. 
Basically, what the IHT has been doing for 125 years.
Mark, based in Hong Kong, has been a crucial part of our success in curating our piece of the global conversation. His news acumen, developed over nearly half a century of reporting, editing and teaching, coupled with his take-no-prisoners analysis, have made the Web pages of Rendezvous both wondrously broad and deeply provoking. 
He has been the author of many of our most trenchant posts and, without a doubt, incited our most intense discussions. Whether writing about Jeremy Lin, the Chinese-American N.B.A. wonder; Chinese Web censorship; the true cost of U.S. military drone strikes; China's high-pressure annual college entrance exam, or natural disasters in the Philippines, Mark has engaged and enlightened readers. 
Didi Kirsten Tatlow, an insightful and well-connected journalist based in Beijing, will pick up where Mark left off. In her weekly contributions to Rendezvous, Didi has already demonstrated what she can do: from telling the harrowing story of how a reporter interviews a dissident to how mainland Chinese saw - literally -November's historic Party Congress, from the stakes in the confrontation over the East China Sea islands to the personal side of raising children or buying a puppy in Beijing.
We can't wait to see how she will deepen our understanding of China on a daily basis. 
Mark will remain in the pages and Web pages of the IHT. And occasionally visiting us here on RDV. We'll be following him. And I suspect many of you will be, too.

        
What Will Asia's Ascendance Bring?
        
Rights Erode Before Women's Eyes
        
A Chinese Scholar, Summoned for Tea
        
Asia Bad. Take Many Jobs. Not Fair.
        
Trending in Asia in 2012: Our Top 10

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); WRITERS (89%); ASIAN AMERICANS (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); JOURNALISM (71%); ACADEMIC TESTING (64%); CENSORSHIP (62%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%) McDonald, Mark; Blogs and Blogging (Internet); International Herald Tribune; China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; View From Asia

ORGANIZATION: International Herald Tribune

PERSON: McDonald, Mark

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA SEA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (65%) CHINA (98%); ASIA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); CANADA (79%); HONG KONG (79%) China; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



986 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 334 words

HEADLINE: Is Our Austerians Learning?

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Not a chance. 

 BODY:
Paul Solman has a post on Greg Mankiw's attempt at a gotcha over my views circa 2003 on the consequences of deficits. As Solman notes, not only are the situations very different, I've also long since acknowledged that I was wrong, and have explained how and why I modified my views as a result. Extra bonus: notice how Mankiw, faced with the failure of his gotcha, immediately tries to claim that he wasn't actually saying what he was, in fact, saying. 
Anyway, as I told Joe Weisenthal, you're supposed to change your views when events don't pan out as you expected. The real gotchas should come on people who stick with their ideology no matter how badly it performs in practice.
Brad DeLong vents his spleen on one example, a guy who has been predicting double-digit inflation for years but remains absolutely committed to his framework all the same. Brian Riedl of Heritage, who predicted that the US government would find it especially hard to borrow, and have to pay ever-higher rates, in a global recession, is another.
But we don't have to go to hard-liners and marginal figures to find people who refuse to learn. Basically the whole austerian movement has been wrong about everything for two and a half years -- wrong about interest rates, wrong about the effects of austerity on GDP in Europe. Yet where is the reconsideration?
And utter wrongness seems to be no disqualification for being considered a source of wisdom. It's hard to top Alan Greenspan's record these past seven or eight years: he went from denying that there was a housing bubble (or even that such a bubble was possible), to declaring the housing bust over in the fall of 2006, to declaring that US deficits would produce high inflation and interest rates (along with expressing his regret that it hadn't happened yet). Yet there he was at the founding of Fix the Debt, apparently still considered the Maestro.
So, I've learned some things and changed some of my views. Wouldn't it be nice if other people would do the same, sometimes?

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RECESSION (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING BUBBLE (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (63%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (70%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (70%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



987 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Media Decoder)

PUB-DATE: December 30, 2012

SECTION: BUSINESS; media

LENGTH: 502 words

HEADLINE: Among Top News Stories, A War Is Missing

BYLINE: BRIAN STELTER


HIGHLIGHT: The war in Afghanistan and worldwide counterterrorism efforts were absent from polls that ranked 2012's top stories, reflecting the scant coverage of the issues as well as the public's lack of interest. 

 BODY:
Look closely at the end-of-the-year lists of 2012's top news stories. What's missing? The 11-year-old war in Afghanistan and American-led counterterrorism efforts around the world. 
The Pew Research Center's weekly polling on the public's interest in news stories showed such a low level of interest that the overseas conflicts didn't make the organization's list of the year's top 15 stories.
Nor did the Afghan war come up often when The Associated Press conducted its annual poll of editors and news directors in the United States. The only overseas stories voted to be the year's top news stories involved Libya and Syria.
Yahoo's list of the top news stories of the year also omitted the war, and so did a separate list of the top international news stories. Those lists were created by analyzing millions of searches by Yahoo users.
The absence of words like "Afghanistan" from year-end lists reflects both the national news media's scant coverage of the war and the public's disengagement with it.
"We are in a period where the American public is intensely focused on domestic economic concerns," said Michael Dimock, the associate director for research at the Pew Research Center for the People and the Press. "On top of this, the public is having a hard time staying focused on foreign engagements that have been ongoing for over a decade."
The exceptions to what he called this "war fatigue" are mass killings of Americans in the war zone, "which continue to draw public focus for short periods of time," he said.
No such occurrence registered on the radar this year. Thus, Pew found that spikes in public interest were higher around events like the Summer Olympics and President Obama's embrace of gay marriage than around anything to do with the war. There were no significant spikes in interest around the secret American campaign of drone strikes in Pakistan, Yemen and Somalia.
About 68,000 American troops remain in Afghanistan now that the troop surge ordered by the Obama administration in 2010 has ended. Combat troops are scheduled to leave the country by the end of 2014. For the time being the American presence is covered by a small band of reporters, predominantly in the country's capital, Kabul.
Erin Burnett of CNN was one of the few American television anchors to take her nightly show to Afghanistan in 2012. She anchored from Kabul on Dec. 13 and told viewers that "America's longest war is still not won." Her reporting was cut short; the next day, the elementary school massacre in Newtown, Conn., pre-empted all other programming on CNN.
The Associated Press poll of editors had already taken place; it was redone a few days later, and the massacre was ranked the top story of the year.

        
In Filing, News Corp. Says Publishing Business Showed $2.1 Billion Loss
        
The Breakfast Meeting: The Royal Pregnancy, and Ailes's Offer to Petraeus
        
News Corp. Gives Details on Its Corporate Split
        
Zucker, Hired at CNN, Will Start in January
        
Dear Jeff: a Handy List of Contradictory, Surefire Paths to Success at CNN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (91%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); RANKINGS (90%); TERRORISM (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (63%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (63%); OLYMPICS (50%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (50%); MARRIAGE (50%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (50%) news and news media; News and News Media; The Year in Media

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); AFGHANISTAN (96%); SYRIA (79%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2012



988 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 14015 words

HEADLINE: 2012: A Look Back, and Beyond

BYLINE: Compiled by THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Every day until Dec. 31, reporters and editors from The New York Times will recall the people, teams and moments that made the last year memorable, and in some cases look ahead to 2013.
* * *
A Star Out Of Nowhere, Then Gone
By Harvey Araton
Players both boisterous and bewildered left the court. Excited fans rushed the exits. Workers began the chore of cleaning up the aisles. All that remained at courtside of a night that straddled the line between highly improbable and unbelievable were the evidence on the scoreboard and an old man leaning precariously on a cane.
''I've been coming here since high school in 1955,'' he said, standing in the runway where the visiting Los Angeles Lakers had fled the unheralded phenomenon known as Linsanity. ''I've never seen anything like this in my life.''
The man, Cal Ramsey, had seen and experienced so much across the decades at Madison Square Garden. He was a collegiate star at New York University, but the Knicks cut him after seven games in 1959 because to keep him, a fourth black player, would have been taboo. But he hung around the building in whatever capacity would keep him there, becoming a broadcaster, a community relations representative, a friend to the stars, Knick or not. 
A forever fan of the game, he watched the great players of the 20th century come and go, and stuck with the home team through a miserable opening decade of the 21st. And now -- ''just out of nowhere,'' Ramsey marveled -- here was this Asian-American, Jeremy Lin of Harvard and N.B.A. waiver lists, making Midtown Manhattan again feel like the center of the basketball universe.
A season-saving sensation at the snap of Coach Mike D'Antoni's fingers, Lin had just dropped 38 points on the glamorous Lakers of Kobe Bryant in a 92-85 victory; scored and assisted every which way and carried a team that was missing its brand one-name players, Melo and Amar'e.
''I didn't think it would last, to tell you the truth,'' Ramsey said, as if he had seen enough after a fifth consecutive victory with Lin at point guard to convince him that Lin, 23, would continue to galvanize a team that for too long had been plagued by what Pat Riley once called ''the disease of me.''
There was no way for Ramsey, or anyone else, to foresee the plot twists to come, including Lin's unceremonious departure from the Knicks in July and his December return as a Houston Rocket. But that night, Feb. 10, there was magic and amazement at the Garden. There was, with Lin of the Knicks, the power and beauty of sports on display, spreading surprise and joy from the East Coast to the Far East, all of it reflected in the eyes of an old man who had long believed he had already seen it all. What remains to be seen is how much, if at all, Knicks fans will rue Lin's story continuing elsewhere.
* * *
What Next, a Lockout of Roary and Sir Purr?
By Sam Borden
Given the disaster that was the N.F.L.'s use of replacement officials and the numbing sideshow that is the N.H.L.'s lockout, one can only imagine how tired sports fans are of labor disputes. Unfortunately, 2013 will bring little respite.
The next business-side battleground is furry, plush and anthropomorphic, as the collective bargaining agreement between the four major sports leagues and the Mascots and Oversized-animals Organization, known in professional circles as M.O.O., is set to expire at 11:59 p.m. Jan. 21, a date chosen by the mascots as a tribute to the longtime mascot supporter George Orwell, who died on that day in 1950.
Negotiations between the sides have not gone well. One early session was derailed when the Yankees owner Hal Steinbrenner stormed out because he was enraged over what he described as Mr. Met's ''perpetually snide'' smile. Another blew up after the Dallas Cowboys owner Jerry Jones was overheard asking a colleague, ''Why is Chewbacca here today?'' with Gorilla, the Phoenix Suns' fuzzy cheerleader, in earshot. Gorilla then jumped onto the table, did a double-flip dismount and dunked his copy of the agenda in the trash as he stalked away.
Even when bargaining meetings have occurred, there has been little movement on the issues. Several mascots, including the Pittsburgh Steelers' Steely McBeam and Youppi!, the Montreal Canadiens' (and the Montreal Expos' former) spirit beast, reported significant resistance in leading M.O.O.'s push for, in their words, ''standardized dressing rooms that recognize the unique challenges of individuals with enormous heads.''
Other unaddressed concerns include quiet lobbying from the quadrupeds alliance, led by the Detroit Lions' Roary and the Carolina Panthers' Sir Purr, for a change to the union's ''woeful'' insurance that covers only two leg examinations, instead of four, a year; a number of retired mascots, including the disgraced Atlanta Braves enthusiast Chief-Noc-a-Homa, seeking an enhanced pension; and a passionate effort spearheaded by the Phillie Phanatic and Seattle's Mariner Moose that calls for increased roadside assistance for ''those animals who are required to operate golf carts, A.T.V.'s or other vehicles.''
The members of M.O.O. have received informal support from the Syracuse Orange, the Stanford Tree and other college mascots, but cannot receive official backing from those colleagues because N.C.A.A. rules prohibit college mascots from unionizing or profiting in any way. There have also been reports of a rogue group, led by the Orlando Magic's Stuff the Magic Dragon, that is attempting to negotiate separately, though M.O.O.'s president, the Washington Nationals' lovable loser Teddy Roosevelt, said in a statement that ''we are united.''
If an agreement is not reached in time, ownership has already made it clear that it is prepared to use replacement mascots. The most likely candidates are minor league performers like the Zooperstars, a well-known troupe of athlete-inspired creatures including Derek Cheetah, LeBronco James, Ichiroach and Peyton Manatee.
Captain Jolly Roger, the longtime Pittsburgh Pirate and union leader, gave an audible ''aargh, scabs'' when the Zooperstars were mentioned, then sniffed dismissively. ''We do a lot more than just use a bazooka to shoot T-shirts into the crowd,'' he said, waving his hook venomously. ''Those scallywag owners need to recognize that underneath it all, mascots are people, too.''
* * *
Late Meltdowns and Status Quo Shake-Up
By Karen Crouse
If this year taught us anything, it was this: If golf were easy, anybody could pick up a belly putter and excel. Tiger Woods, a 14-time major champion, won three times but also struggled on the weekends when contending, proving his veins are not full of ice water, after all.
Rory McIlroy cruised to an eight-stroke victory at the P.G.A. Championship, which he chased with two FedEx Cup playoff crowns to cement his world No. 1 ranking. However, he went winless for a five-month stretch after his monumental victory over Woods in the Honda Classic in March, his ungraceful play capsulized by a 77 on the Saturday of the Masters in a round so rotten he received a consoling hug from his playing partner, Sergio GarcÃa.
McIlroy won four times in 2012, matching Stacy Lewis's victory total on the L.P.G.A. Tour. But it was all the defeats snatched from victory's grasp that made the year so compelling. I. K. Kim went to the last green of the Kraft Nabisco Championship needing a tap-in par putt to preserve her one-stroke lead. She missed it, then promptly lost in a playoff to her South Korean compatriot Sun Young Yoo. Kyle Stanley lost the Farmers Insurance Open with a triple bogey on the final hole, then won the next week when Spencer Levin blew a six-stroke lead. Adam Scott relinquished a four-stroke lead over the last four holes to hand the British Open to Ernie Els. The United States Ryder Cup team squandered a 10-6 lead on the final day against Europe.
The winds of change rattled the status quo in 2012, when Augusta National opened its doors to its first two female members and the United States Golf Association moved to ban anchored putting. Led by Lewis, American women experienced a resurgence, with eight tour titles. Led by Yoo, Asia continued its golfing ascendancy, sweeping the four women's majors, producing a 14-year-old qualifier for the 2013 Masters and sending three South Koreans, including the 17-year-old Si Woo Kim, to the PGA Tour through qualifying school.
As this year gives way to 2013, we'll have Lydia Ko, a South Korean-born New Zealander, and China's Guan Tianlang to remind us that 15 is the new 25. In contrast with the 2013 N.H.L. season, which may never begin, the 2013 golf season will seem as if it never quite ends, with the first six events of the 2014 season being held in October and November as the PGA Tour bids adieu to its traditional calendar season.
There will be no change at the top of the world rankings on either the men's or the women's side, as McIlroy will prove his time -- no matter what zone -- is now and Yani Tseng will bounce back from a year in which she won ''only'' three times to win the Kraft Nabisco Championship and at least one other major.
What we'd like to see in 2013: GarcÃa winning his first major; Woods embracing the news media the way he has McIlroy; and the U.S.G.A. and the Royal & Ancient deciding to leave the anchored stroke alone and taking aim at the real threats to the game's integrity, including the balls that travel forever, the drivers with the grapefruit-sized heads and the lawyers poised to defend technology to the game's death.
* * *
Slugger's Son Comes Home Just in Time
By Steve Eder
There's an image etched into the collective memory of Detroit Tigers fans. It's of a young boy with a big smile who often hung around the clubhouse at the old Tiger Stadium. Prince Fielder was just a child, but he could smack the baseball into the upper deck.
His father, Cecil Fielder, was a superstar whose unlikely, but successful, quest for 50 home runs during the 1990 season made him the story of the summer in Detroit. Tigers fans, loving Fielder's power, called him Big Daddy. And Big Daddy's talented young son was often at his side.
In January 2012, the son, now a major league superstar in his own right, came home to Detroit to help the Tigers to one of the team's most memorable seasons in its long history -- a campaign that included an appearance in the World Series and a rare triple crown by his teammate Miguel Cabrera, the American League's most valuable player.
Prince Fielder's route back to Detroit had twists and turns.
A decade ago, the Tigers missed out on drafting Fielder when the Milwaukee Brewers took him one pick ahead of them. In Milwaukee, he became an elite hitter, teaming with Ryan Braun, the 2011 National League M.V.P.
After the 2011 season, Fielder, now 28, was a free agent, and a player of his caliber in the prime of his career would have many suitors and demand a hefty payday. His rÃ©sumÃ© already included five straight seasons with at least 30 home runs -- including one in which he hit 50. Tigers fans could dream, but with a high payroll and a solid team returning, they were not considered a serious contender for Fielder's services.
That all changed in mid-January when Victor Martinez, one of the Tigers' best players, was lost for the 2012 season after being injured during agility drills while preparing for the start of training camp.
Buzz about the possibility of the Tigers' signing Fielder immediately surfaced, particularly among fans who remembered him from his youth but also had seen what he'd done in the big leagues. But it didn't make financial sense, and the Tigers already had Cabrera playing Fielder's position, first base.
Almost as soon as Tigers fans dismissed the idea as fantasy, the owner Mike Ilitch -- who bought the team in 1992 when the elder Fielder was on the roster -- gave his approval to sign Prince Fielder, bringing him ''back home'' with a $214 million contract. Cabrera shifted to third base to make room for his new teammate, setting up a powerful lineup.
In late January, when the Tigers announced Fielder's signing during a news conference at Comerica Park, where they now play, Fielder's own 7-year-old son was sitting next to him.
It was a familiar scene.
* * *
A Free Fall That Has Yet to Reach Rock Bottom
By Juliet Macur
This year began so well for Lance Armstrong.
A month into 2012, after nearly two years of his wondering and worrying, federal prosecutors said they were no longer investigating Armstrong for possible doping-related crimes, including fraud, money laundering and drug trafficking. The United States attorney leading the inquiry had dismissed the case.
For Armstrong, a weight had been lifted.
''It is the right decision, and I commend them for reaching it,'' he said in a statement that day, Feb. 3. ''I look forward to continuing my life as a father, a competitor, and an advocate in the fight against cancer without this distraction.''
But in fact, his year was not on an upswing. Quite the opposite. Armstrong was about to have one of the most precipitous, unceremonious downfalls in the history of sports.
By the end of October, he was stripped of his record seven Tour de France titles and was barred for life from competing in Olympic sports. His sponsors, even the longtime supporters Nike and Oakley, abandoned him. He closed out 2012 pegged as a liar and a cheat who had to step down from his own cancer charity, Livestrong, to keep it from drowning alongside him.
All that misfortune came at the hands of the United States Anti-Doping Agency, which did not back down from its fight with Armstrong, even when the federal criminal investigation fell apart.
In June, the agency announced that it had opened a doping case against Armstrong, who later chose not to fight the charges. But it was too late for him to save his reputation as a cancer-surviving hero to millions.
By mid-October, the agency had made public a 202-page report that said Armstrong was at the heart of the most sophisticated, well-organized doping program in sports. In that report, 11 of his former teammates said they had doped and that doping on Armstrong's teams was widespread and expected if riders wanted to succeed at the sport's highest level.
Riders who had been Armstrong's closest friends and confidants had pointed their fingers at him. And while his lawyers called the report ''a one-sided hatchet job,'' Armstrong did something many did not expect: he did not fight back.
Within weeks, he retreated from his hometown, Austin, Tex., to Hawaii, away from the stares and the vocal criticisms. There, he rode out the initial tumult.
Now back in Austin, Armstrong awaits a new year. It could not be worse than the last. Yet it is likely to be rocky.
The Department of Justice is still considering joining a federal whistle-blower case filed by Floyd Landis, one of Armstrong's former teammates. Landis has claimed Armstrong and management of the United States Postal Service team defrauded the government by using taxpayer dollars to finance the squad's doping program.
Also, a Dallas-based insurance company that awarded Armstrong bonuses for winning several Tours is looking for its money back. Armstrong owes it at least $7.5 million, a lawyer for the company said.
What Armstrong, a father of five, will do next is anybody's guess. One thing that is not likely on his to-do list to ring in the new year: celebrate his good fortune.
* * *
For U.S. Track Team, Strides in Right Direction
By Tom Connelly
You know your sport is in ratings trouble when the stunning performances of your current Olympians in London finish a distant second to the extracurricular exploits of a stunning former Olympian in Las Vegas. Or when its most recognizable face belongs not to the chiseled Mr. Bolt but to the whittled Mr. Kardashian.
Or maybe not.
For failures organic and self-inflicted, track and field in the United States long ago ceded the first tier of the sporting hierarchy to the broadcast friendly Big Three. It now ricochets like a wayward atom in the vast chasm between the poles of women's gymnastics and curling. Its popularity is roughly equivalent to that of domestic soccer, which bid farewell to Beckham this year and awaits Messi in 2025, and the dysfunction that is professional boxing, which will never again care about universal popularity as long as there is a pay-per-view cash cow to milk.
Still, because a dominant Olympic track performance that, for those scoring at home, assured that the United States would win the overall medal count, there is hope for a higher national profile, if indeed that is even what the sport's genuinely quirky aficionados truly seek.
Credit especially goes to the American milers, specifically the men. Their event -- together with the sport's metric equivalent, the 1,500 -- is track's marquee attraction. The 100 gives us the World's Fastest Human, but it is short and brutish and pales aesthetically against the other pure sprints: the 200 and its powerful and stirring turn, and the 400 and its long-striding elegance on the back straight. The 800 -- apologies to the exquisite David Rudisha -- is an underloved hybrid for those whose hamstrings don't twitch quite fast enough and hearts don't beat quite slow enough. But the mile/1,500 is close to perfect, requiring a balance of speed and strength and tactics, short enough to hold us rapt but not so long that we can return from a bathroom break and expect to pick up pretty much where we left off.
There have always been great American milers. Glenn Cunningham was the best of the 1930s. Wes Santee, Jim Ryun, Marty Liquori, Steve Scott, the naturalized citizen Bernard Lagat and others could always be counted among the global elite. But the mile has rarely been dominated by Americans.
The last time the United States won Olympic gold in the 1,500 was 1908. And until Leo Manzano finished second in London, Ryun's silver in 1968 was the last medal taken by an American. Now, though, Manzano's astonishing kick to silver and the almost-third-place finish by Matthew Centrowitz, four months after knee surgery, teases at an American renaissance heading into the summer's world championships in Moscow. Maybe it won't be a match for the 1980s British troika of Sebastian Coe, Steve Cram and Steve Ovett, but throw in Andrew Wheating -- and, who knows, even a refocused Alan Webb -- and there is the potential for an interesting season ahead for those who care to pay attention.
* * *
Going About the Business of Creating Magic
By Steve Reddicliffe
Nothing seemed to faze the Loyola (Maryland) men's lacrosse team last season, not even being left out of the preseason top 20.
Coming off an 8-5 season in 2011, the senior co-captain Scott Ratliff said: ''We knew there probably wouldn't be a whole bunch of hype behind us going into last year. We mentioned it, we talked about it one day, and then we kind of just went about our business.''
Nobody went too crazy after Loyola decisively beat Duke, a preseason No. 2, in early March, although midfielder Davis Butts, also a senior co-captain, said, ''I can tell you that definitely gave us a little boost for the rest of the season.''
And nobody stewed too much when Loyola, after starting the season 12-0, lost to its Baltimore rival, Johns Hopkins, in overtime in late April.
''When we set goals, it was to win the conference championship and then go on to win the national championship, so we knew that we had all those goals still in front of us,'' Ratliff said.
Loyola did win the Eastern Collegiate Athletic Conference title, defeating Denver, a preseason top-five team, for the second time in a month in the semifinal and Fairfield in the final. And in the N.C.A.A. tournament, the Greyhounds beat Canisius, Denver again (by one goal for the second straight time), and Notre Dame before facing Maryland in the championship game.
The Terrapins had been there the previous year, losing to Virginia by two goals, but Loyola was pretty cool about that game, too.
''We had the slogan, 'The best team will win,' '' Ratliff said, ''and we felt that would be us, and it worked out.''
Loyola won, 9-3, for the program's first N.C.A.A. Division I title; the margin was comfortable enough that Coach Charley Toomey changed his goalie and got a bunch of players minutes in a championship game. Toomey himself had been the goalie for Loyola in a national title game in 1990, losing by 21-9 to Syracuse. He said he did not pass along any lessons from that experience.
''This is their time,'' Toomey said. ''We stuck to what we know, the extra preparation, the scouting reports, being smart with your downtime. And really just enjoying the moment.
''You can coach your whole life to have a special team of guys like this and from senior leadership to freshman buy-in, to the on- and off-the-field success that our kids had, that is something I will hold onto for a long time,'' he said.
Loyola's first game of 2013 is Feb. 16 against Delaware.
''It's a completely different team,'' Toomey said of the current Greyhounds. His tone was matter-of-fact, with perhaps a hint of urgency, but nothing over the top. It was an attitude that sounded familiar.
* * *
U.S. Women's Soccer, Between Dramas
By Jay Schreiber
On Memorial Day weekend, the United States women's soccer team played a sweet lullaby of a game on the banks of the Delaware River outside Philadelphia. As a sunny afternoon eased into dusk, the Americans, in a warm-up for what lay ahead, beat China, 4-1, before a celebratory crowd of nearly 19,000 that filled every seat at PPL Park.
Afterward, half the crowd lingered in the stands and all of the American players remained on the field. The women sat and stretched and gulped water and energy drinks and then, in their dual roles of athletes and ambassadors, headed for all points of the stadium to patiently sign dozens and dozens and more dozens of autographs.
At that moment, the Americans were between dramas. They had produced one of the great moments in the history of women's soccer the previous summer when Megan Rapinoe launched a long, curving dead-on pass that Abby Wambach headed into the Brazil net with the United States down a player and a goal in the final seconds of overtime in a World Cup quarterfinal.
The United States won that game on penalty kicks, only to lose the same way to Japan in the World Cup final, a loss that stung even more because the Americans twice surrendered late one-goal leads.
Now the Summer Olympics in London awaited, and a chance for this same group of players to kick away all that pain and disappointment. But on that peaceful May night in Philadelphia, in the calm before the roar, the team could still breathe easy.
I thought of that scene two months later as the Americans battled in a desperate Olympic semifinal against an underdog Canadian club intent on ambush. Three times, the Canadians took a one-goal lead; three times, the United States women battled back to tie the score. Now as overtime wound down, and penalty kicks loomed again, it was Rapinoe who raced like a madwoman to inbound a ball that Canada had kicked over the line.
It was easy to see that she wanted no part of the lotterylike randomness of penalty kicks, when anyone might score or miss, when the Americans could just as easily lose as prevail. Win it now, win it now, you could hear Rapinoe saying to herself. And the Americans did, with Alex Morgan heading in the winner in the final moments of overtime, just as Wambach had done the summer before.
In the gold medal final, the Americans faced Japan again, and nearly gave away the lead again, with Hope Solo making a full-out, lunging save to preserve a 2-1 victory. So over two summers, the American women put together four intensely memorable games, broadened their following and created enough momentum for a third effort to create a professional league.
Maybe this time a league will succeed, or maybe it won't. And maybe, at some point next spring or summer, the American women will come back to the banks of Delaware for an encore, this time in triumph.
* * *
The Greatest Fight That Never Was
By Greg Bishop
The fight that mattered most, the one certain to shatter pay-per-view records and make boxing relevant to the mainstream sports fan again, if only temporarily, became less likely in 2012. To say the chances of its taking place in 2013 are improbable would be to acknowledge a sliver of a chance, like that line from ''Dumb and Dumber'':
So you're telling me there's a chance?
No, there is none.
Back in January, the superfight between Floyd Mayweather Jr. and Manny Pacquiao was already unlikely, already a pipe dream, which befuddled fans of sports, where the best teams and best players actually face off. But this is boxing, and those three words manage to explain everything, to summarize all the chaos and confusion that have come to define a classic sport.
All anyone who ever watched a boxing match wanted was for Mayweather to step inside the ring with Pacquiao. Here were the two very best boxers of their generation, in the same weight class, on paths that seemed destined to collide. For that fight, three million P.P.V. buys seemed possible. So did total revenue of more than $200 million.
Yet these fighters, again, in the same weight class, continued to fight the same opponents, on parallel paths that remained just that. If this strategy doesn't make sense, it's not supposed to. This is boxing.
Then came 2012. Mayweather went to jail after he pleaded guilty to misdemeanor battery domestic violence. The incident reportedly took place in front of his children. This is boxing, though, so Mayweather fought and beat Miguel Cotto in May. The same Cotto that Pacquiao demolished in 2009 on his rise to global icon.
Pacquiao lost twice in 2012. Timothy Bradley beat him first, in a fight that nobody, not even Bradley if he's being honest, felt he won. But where Bradley did not succeed -- in the court of public opinion -- Juan Manuel MÃ¡rquez did. In their fourth fight, MÃ¡rquez knocked Pacquiao out cold.
There lay the champion, the fighter of the decade, face down on the canvas, as Mitt Romney -- yes, that Mitt Romney -- sat only a few rows away, his face registering but one emotion: shock. For once after a Pacquiao fight, no one mentioned Mayweather, or the megafight that was said to have the potential to redefine their sport.
So here we are. The best boxer in recent memory, Mayweather, has fought five times since late 2007 and spent more time in 2012 behind bars than in the gym. His most anticipated challenger may retire, if not now, then soon.
For the past year or two, it always felt improbable, the possibility of Mayweather against Pacquiao. It seemed as if they would box when they were old, when one or the other needed money, when the fight that mattered most mattered far less. Now even that seems like a fantasy boxing matchup, one in which Mayweather clearly would be favored.
As 2012 turns to 2013, it seems safe to say that the fight that never was now will never be.
This is boxing.
* * *
A Fine Night to Appreciate a Mets First
By Andrew Keh
Two things they told me when I was beginning as the beat writer covering the Mets, just over a year ago:
1. No Mets pitcher had ever thrown a no-hitter, a fact that became more sad and significant and comical with each game, so be prepared to write about the first one.
2. Nights off at home, for a baseball writer, are rare. Enjoy them, if you can.
These thoughts collided on June 1. That night, the Mets were playing the St. Louis Cardinals in Queens, and I was ducking into a subterranean izakaya in Manhattan. There was no cellphone reception. Baseball seemed distant.
But after a few bites and a couple of beers, there appeared Johan Santana, the veteran Mets lefty, on a soundless television screen mounted against a distant wall. It showed him inducing three routine outs before the station cut back to the original program.
''Strange highlight'' was my first thought. My second came quickly, frantically: ''No-hitter!''
Alarm bells went off. Here was a major event developing on my beat. But what could I do? I assumed -- correctly, it turned out -- that the reporting duties were in capable hands. Tim Rohan, an intern on one of his first assignments, went on to write an elegant game story. So I took the rare opportunity to watch from afar, as a casual observer.
The check was settled, and my friends and I surfaced back to street level and hustled to a nearby sports bar, getting there during the top of the eighth inning, stepping into a room abuzz. Each out recorded raised the volume of the place.
With his 134th pitch, Santana, with his surgically repaired shoulder, recorded the final out, and after 8,020 games, the Mets had their first no-hitter.
On-screen, Santana screamed and was mobbed by teammates. In our bar, patrons whooped and smiled.
There was something strange about seeing this, a postgame celebration involving the Mets. It was charming, of course. But it also brought to mind how scarce such celebrations have been for the team in recent years.
And there was something strange about the scene inside the bar. We were away from the rumble of Citi Field and its die-hards, but people applauded and raised their beer glasses. Some were Mets fans, others casual sports fans. All seemed surprised and happy to have a tangible reason to salute the team.
Over several weeks, the afterglow of the night would fade, giving way to another dreary season for the Mets, another fourth-place finish. R. A. Dickey, a charismatic knuckleballer, enlivened things at the end, winning 20 games and a Cy Young Award. But his glow was extinguished, too, when he was traded this month to the Toronto Blue Jays, a move to benefit the future.
So who can say now when the Mets will play another meaningful game? Who knows when the next on-field celebration for the Mets might occur?
Until then, June 1, 2012, will be fondly remembered. It was a fine night to be off the baseball beat.
* * *
Quiet World Cup Groundwork for the U.S.
By Andrew Das
What if the easy part was the hard part?
Two years out from the World Cup in Brazil should be quiet time for the United States national team and Coach Jurgen Klinsmann, who coasted through 2012, losing only twice in 14 games. Sure, the early-round World Cup qualifiers on the schedule were important, and there was a hairy moment or two. But the Americans' finishing in the top half of a group with Jamaica, Guatemala, and Antigua and Barbuda wasn't really heavy lifting, and many fans weren't always paying close attention anyway. The friendlies were generally low-risk (Venezuela, Scotland, Canada) or high-reward (Brazil's Olympic team). A first-ever win in Italy was a bonus, and a similar feat in Mexico was an even nicer surprise. Even the goals started to come: five one night in Jacksonville, three in Tampa and Jamaica, two more on a frozen field in Russia.
But Klinsmann was doing his heavy lifting behind the scenes. He tinkered with positions and personalities and, at times, nationalities. He leaned on goalkeeper Tim Howard while trying out defenders who didn't always protect him. He integrated midfielder Michael Bradley, the frequently scowling son of the coach he replaced, into the heart and soul of his team, and then surrounded him with a mixture of German muscle and homegrown hopefuls. He pushed striker Jozy Altidore to take his game more seriously and nudged Clint Dempsey to find a bigger club. All the while, he taught those he sent to the field -- 49 players over the course of the year -- how to stop falling behind, and how to fight their way out when they did.
According to the script, the next stage -- the bulk of the Americans' 2013 schedule -- should be the hardest: five regional rivals, home and away. Honduras. Costa Rica. Mexico. Jamaica. Panama. Places where it's just as well that you don't speak the local language, especially the words for ''mother'' and ''sister.'' Places where they hurl not only insults -- though there are plenty of those -- but also coins and batteries and bags filled with urine.
The Americans must survive that gantlet to claim one of the region's three guaranteed places in the 2014 World Cup. The core of the team has done this before, the most recent part of a run of six straight World Cup trips, an active streak longer than even Mexico's. The question of 2013 will be whether that experience will make it easier this time.
Klinsmann will start the journey with a spine of World Cup veterans like Howard and Carlos Bocanegra and Bradley and Dempsey running through his team. He'll enter it with other players toughened by games in the Champions League, even if that experience came with Anderlecht and Nordsjaelland, not Arsenal and Milan. He will enter it, as the American coach often does, with the burden of leading one of the favorites. What may be missing for the first time in years is Landon Donovan, who is seriously considering a break from the game, perhaps permanent.
The discussion they will have will be difficult for Klinsmann, to be sure. But some of his toughest work is already behind him.
* * *
Redemption in Left Field: A 9-Act Play
By Peter Lattman
On a Sunday afternoon in late August, I found myself home alone in the sweltering city, my family away at the beach.
Since misery loves company, I turned on the Mets.
After a solid first half, the Mets were in the throes of an epic late-season collapse. But they were better off than their opponent, the visiting Astros, owners of the worst record in baseball. It was a train wreck of a matchup.
Yet for the Flushing faithful, the game had compelling subplots. There was the return to the lineup of Lucas Duda, a powerful young slugger whose personal struggles embodied the Mets' woes. Duda had held such promise early in the year, but after an abysmal hitting slump and defensive miscues in right field, the Mets demoted him to the minors. He had spent the past month playing for the Class AAA Buffalo Bisons, trying to resuscitate his swing and learn a new position, left field.
Another young Met, the rookie right-hander Jeremy Hefner, took the mound that day in what would be his best outing of the season. In a taut pitching duel with Lucas Harrell, the Astros' rookie standout, Hefner took a 1-0 lead into the ninth inning. After he gave up a leadoff single, the next batter, Marwin Gonzalez, hit a low liner into left field.
Duda chugged toward the foul line and slid but couldn't make the catch. The base runner scored. Hefner's shutout slipped through his glove. Though a tough play, it was a makable one. The broadcasters knocked Duda's fielding. The television camera fixed on him, alone in left field, a pained expression on his face.
But two batters later, he got another chance. The Astros' Ben Francisco hit a grounder past the shortstop for a base hit. A determined Duda charged the ball with abandon, scooped it up on the run and threw a bull's-eye to the Mets' catcher, who tagged Gonzalez as he tried to score from second.
The tie was preserved. Sweet redemption for Duda!
With one out in the bottom of the ninth, Ike Davis hit his second home run of the game. Mets 2, Astros 1.
This is a franchise that has caused its fans serious heartache, with the past season especially distressing (and the next one loaded with uncertainty). But on a Sunday afternoon in late August, the Mets were a blissful 2-hour-19-minute distraction. The stakes could not have been lower, but the game could not have been better.
* * *
After Flash of Failure, Phelps Secures His Place in History
By Lynn Zinser
For a night or two at the London Olympics, it looked as if Michael Phelps's storied career would end in a fizzle. He had been routed in a race he had once dominated, the 400-meter individual medley, and the look on his face betrayed bewilderment. Losing was not something Phelps had ever had to learn how to do.
As everyone granted him second-class status behind the new hero Ryan Lochte, the instant caterwauling about Phelps's disappointing demise ignored one thing: whether or not Phelps is the best Olympian ever, he may be one of the best competitors. Four gold and two silver medals later, Phelps's familiar crooked grin was back, and Lochte was reduced to background noise. In what he says was his final Games, Phelps became the most decorated Olympian, finishing with 22 career medals, 18 of them gold.
Live-blogging the events for The New York Times, I was watching every last stroke from afar, laughing while writing the latest feats of the Phelps epic. I had been in Sydney in 2000 when Phelps swam in his first Olympics as a 15-year-old, a shy, gangly kid who was welcomed to the world of big news conferences with a question about whether he had ever kissed a girl. (The non-offending reporters cringed at that one.)
That first Olympics was rather forgettable -- Phelps finished fifth in his only event, the 200-meter butterfly -- but by 2004, Phelps was the star his sport would begin to orbit around. I sat in the stands in Athens next to Phelps's mother, Debbie, as he won his first gold medal, in world-record time in the 400 I.M. She was bubbling over with emotion, and even the relentlessly even-keeled Phelps let a few of his dream-come-true thoughts play out on his face. His era had begun.
For his heroics in Beijing, I was a mere spectator, off covering other Olympic events, which was a good thing because I had probably run out of words to describe him after 2004. Nothing he did surprised me because, watching Phelps swim, it's possible to believe he can do anything. Unlike in other sports, the truly magical competitors in swimming appear to be expending so much less energy than anyone else. Phelps glides through the water as if propelled by some supernatural force.
The magic of 2012 was that he had to work for it, really work for it, and the effort was visible this time. No longer was winning those races a given, and as he pulled himself out of the pool each time, every ache showed. The superhero was indeed human, but underestimating him was never wise.
* * *
â[#x20ac][0/00]
â[#x20ac][0/00]
A Superstar Goes Down, but the Yanks Fight On
By Patty LaDuca
On the afternoon of May 3, my Times colleague David Waldstein delivered the news on Twitter: ''Mariano Rivera appears to have been injured in outfield during BP. He is being taken off the field on a cart. Looks bad.''
My heart sank.
The Yankees, about to start a four-game series against the Royals in Kansas City, were 13-11 and in fourth place in the American League East. This news seemed like the end of hope for the season and perhaps the end of Rivera's illustrious career.
We soon learned that he had torn the anterior cruciate ligament in his right knee while chasing a fly ball, an activity he had always enjoyed but now seemed foolish. Before he could have surgery to repair it, a blood clot developed in his calf, a common complication in older patients like Rivera, then 42.
The most dominant and durable closer in baseball history, he was the glue that held the Yankees together for 15 years. How could they make up any ground after losing him for the rest of the season, let alone make the playoffs?
Turns out that they could. Rafael Soriano filled in ably in the bullpen, posting 42 saves and taking his place in my book among the pantheon of Yankees closers like Dave Righetti, Sparky Lyle, Goose Gossage and John (Walk the Bases Loaded, Then Strike Out the Side) Wetteland. The Yankees won 95 games and the American League East title.
In the playoffs, relief pitching was the least of the Yankees' problems. Their bats were feeble (.211 average) as they squeaked past Baltimore in a five-game division series and went silent (.157) as Detroitswept them in the A.L. Championship Series.
It turned out the injury would not mean the end of Rivera's career either. He announced in no uncertain terms that he would return in 2013, rested and ready at 43.
''I'm coming back,'' he said the day after his injury. ''Write it down in big letters.''
My heart sang.
* * *
Giants, Again Needing Hero, Find One Along the Sideline
By Ben Shpigel
The Giants have this thing about artistic, brilliant, darn-near-impossible fourth-quarter catches in Super Bowl victories against New England. Mainly, they make them. And mainly, the catches are made by receivers who in the moment demand a formal introduction to the public at large -- but only then, never again.
Say the name Mario Manningham to most any football fan, and there is instant recognition, followed perhaps by wonderment: how did he haul in that pass while keeping both feet inbounds?
Like David Tyree before him, Manningham had a sense of occasion that February night, at Lucas Oil Stadium in Indianapolis, where the Giants toasted another improbable championship, their second in five seasons. They defeated New England, 21-17, because of Eli Manning's arm and a stingy defense and a reluctant touchdown by Ahmad Bradshaw, but mostly because Manningham's feet stopped growing when they did.
They are size 11. Anything bigger and, he said afterward, ''I would have been out.'' He was not exaggerating, either.
The Giants trailed, 17-15, with 3 minutes 46 seconds remaining. The ball was at their 12 when Manning, with Vince Wilfork's hand in his face, heaved an arcing, perfect pass down the near sideline, the Patriots' sideline, where Manningham was running, having beaten safety Sterling Moore at the line of scrimmage.
''Step up,'' Manningham said he told himself. ''Dig deep.''
Across the field stood Tyree, the Giants' talisman. He entered franchise lore by pinning the football against his helmet in the Super Bowl four years before, extending the winning drive. On this night, Manningham needed only his fingertips and toes, no helmet. As another safety, Patrick Chung, closed in, Manningham reached out his hands. The ball, lofted over his shoulder, fell in. His right foot touched the ground first, and then his left, his size 11s both inbounds but barely.
Eight plays later, the Giants scored what proved to be the winning touchdown. A raucous celebration soon followed, and the afterglow lasted for weeks. By mid-March, though, Manningham was no longer a Giant, off to San Francisco, to play for the 49ers. He was gone, yes. But forgotten? Never.
* * *
A Triumph for Zambia Near the Site of a Tragedy
By David Waldstein
Perhaps it was destiny's hand that guided Zambia to one of the most remarkable victories in the history of the African Cup of Nations last February, or maybe it was just poetic coincidence.
The emotional championship was secured just a few hundred yards from the site of the plane crash off the coast of Libreville, Gabon, that killed a previous Zambian team 19 years earlier, and it produced a moment of long-awaited joy for the impoverished southern African nation.
It was the first time the under-regarded Zambians, known as the Chipolopolo (copper bullets), won the title in the 55-year history of the tournament, and it was also the first time the tournament was held in Gabon. It took 15 penalty kicks to ultimately vanquish a powerful Ivory Coast team, which boasted stars like Didier Drogba, Yaya TourÃ© and Salomon Kalou.
On April 27, 1993, the Zambian national soccer team was on a flight from Lusaka, Zambia, to Senegal for a World Cup qualifying match when its plane plunged into the ocean off the coast of Libreville. All 30 people on board, including 18 members of a strong team, died.
That team held great promise for Zambia, with legitimate hopes of winning that year's African Cup and qualifying for the 1994 World Cup. Some of the players were on the team that stunned Italy, 4-0, in the 1988 Olympics, the first thrashing of a European power by an African team in any major competition. The electrifying Kalusha Bwalya, who scored a hat trick in that game, went on to be called the best player in Zambian soccer history. At the time of the crash he was traveling to Gabon from the Netherlands, where he played for the Dutch powerhouse PSV Eindhoven, so he was not on the plane.
A year later, almost single-handedly, Bwalya led the decimated Chipolopolo to a second-place finish at the 1994 African Cup in Tunisia, and later coached the national team. He later became the president of the Football Association of Zambia and was on hand in Libreville when his team finally won the cup.
Two days before the Feb. 12 final, the team visited the beach near where the plane crashed offshore, an emotional moment for everyone, but particularly for Bwalya, who lost so many teammates that night.
''I say here that their dreams are our dreams,'' Bwalya said. ''They are smiling down on heaven as we take part in this tournament in Gabon.''
In the tense, hard-fought game, all seemed lost for Zambia when the Ivoirians were awarded a penalty in the 70th minute. But Drogba shot high, and the game eventually went to penalty kicks. After 14 kicks, the sides were even, but on the 15th, Stoppila Sunzu sizzled one into the top corner. Zambia had an incomparable 8-7 victory.
For some back in Zambia, the spirit of the 18 lost players clearly had a hand in the outcome.
''We know what we wanted to honor this evening,'' Zambia's coach, Herve Renard, said afterward. ''It was a sign of destiny, written in the sky; there was a force with us.''
* * *
Finding Hope in Football, and Providing It
By JerÃ© Longman
Kickoff for the Pennsylvania state championship game was minutes away. Music and a taped inspirational speech filled the Clairton High School locker room. But Terrish Webb sat outside on a set of concrete steps. He wiped tears from his eyes.
''I miss my dad,'' Webb, 17, told his close friend and teammate Robby Boatwright, who gave him a hug.
''I got your back,'' Boatwright said. ''I love you.''
Six years earlier, almost to the day, Webb's father had been shot to death as he drove his car in the late afternoon near the football field in Clairton, a frayed steel mill town south of Pittsburgh. Webb was 11 at the time. The case has never been solved.
''When you have tragedy like that in your immediate family, some kids tend to go the wrong way,'' said Wayne Wade, a former star quarterback at Clairton who is now the team's defensive coordinator. ''They can't handle it. They start to question themselves. Why me? They look into different avenues to go, which are negative. Terrish found a positive one in football with a lot of his friends. They vowed a long time ago that they wanted to win state championships and they did all the right things to do it.''
Clairton fell on hard times when the steel industry collapsed in the 1980s. Much of its downtown is abandoned, boarded up. But football has provided a glimmer of hope amid the civic gloominess. Webb caught a 21-yard touchdown pass in a 20-0 victory in the Class A title game on Dec. 14 at Hersheypark Stadium, helping Clairton to a fourth consecutive state championship and its 63rd consecutive win, the nation's longest current winning streak.
A 6-foot-1 receiver and cornerback, Webb caught 16 touchdown passes, rushed for 4 touchdowns and intercepted 8 passes this season. He is also the senior class president and ranks second in his class with a 3.8 grade-point average. He is considering playing college football at Kent State, Pittsburgh or Toledo.
''That's a special person who can come back from such adversity,'' Tom Nola, Clairton's coach, said of Webb. ''He's the best student on the team. He's going to college. He's going to make something of his life. My hat's off to him.''
Nola credited Webb's mother, Tinisha Webb, who works as an administrative assistant at a hospital in suburban Pittsburgh, with keeping Terrish from despair and stressing the importance of education. His friends, too, vowed that they would not succumb to the temptations and violence of a city where nearly a quarter of the 6,796 residents live below the poverty level.
''People think this is just football,'' Webb said. ''This is more than football to us. This is the way out from where we come from.''
* * *
In Pictures | Football
* * *
Bid to Win Triple Crown Ends in Barn at Belmont
By Melissa Hoppert
It was a sun-drenched Friday morning at Belmont Park, and with an elusive Triple Crown on the line, the employees and even the horses seemed to have an extra bounce in their step.
One day stood between I'll Have Another and the history books: he had a chance to be the 12th Triple Crown winner and the first since Affirmed in 1978.
It had already been a magical run for the underdog colt and jockey Mario Gutierrez, who had won the Kentucky Derby and the Preakness Stakes in thrilling fashion.
Not many people were at the trainer Doug O'Neill's barn at 9:30 a.m. that day, but those who were appeared in good spirits, hardly letting on that something was amiss with the champion colt.
O'Neill was said to be dealing with the arrival of his family, but in hindsight, he had bigger worries than travel arrangements.
By 11:30, O'Neill had confirmed on the Dan Patrick radio show that I'll Have Another was out of the Belmont Stakes with a tendon injury.
As word began to travel around Belmont Park, and the news media swarmed the detention barn, people were in a state of disbelief. One track worker called home: ''Did you hear that? They scratched the horse!'' Another said, ''I hear that he's never going to race again.'' A horseplayer threw his program and shouted, ''Unbelievable.''
Jimmy Crennan of nearby Williston Park, Long Island, who had been to every Belmont since 1980, was sitting in the backyard area. His thoughts? ''Shock and disappointment.''
''It's like the air comes out of the balloon,'' he said. ''I got here today, and I was in such good spirits.
''I'm sure there will be 30,000 less people here tomorrow now.''
Steve Wolfson, the son of Louis Wolfson, the owner of Affirmed, said: ''What a disappointment. It's just such a daunting task, and then for this to happen. I really feel bad about it, for the horse, for Doug O'Neill and Mario Gutierrez and for the public. It's really sad.''
The race went on, however, and a crowd of 85,811, the largest on a non-Triple Crown day, watched as Union Rags charged past Paynter to capture the Belmont Stakes.
I'll Have Another is now standing stud in Japan. But perhaps the story is not finished. His former owner, Paul Reddam, and O'Neill have another Derby contender for 2013: He's Had Enough.
* * *
A League's Ruinous Battle Against Itself
By Jeff Z. Klein
Bill Daly, the N.H.L.'s deputy commissioner, is a man not normally given to purple public statements. But when he said ''the hill we will die on'' during a news conference Dec. 6, he angrily summed up where the N.H.L. went in a ruinous 2012.
Daly used that phrase while standing next to Commissioner Gary Bettman, who was visibly shaking with rage, as they explained why they had just rejected the players' latest proposal and extended the N.H.L.'s lockout.
''Term limits on player contracts, which is the hill we will die on,'' Daly said.
It was a telling choice of words -- an utterance so evocative of gallant sacrifice and heroic last stands, yet made in connection with a mere business issue.
But that is how Bettman, Daly and the N.H.L. owners seem to view this lockout: as a kind of apocalyptic battle in which the players union must be defeated, even if the world must be brought down to do so.
Some blame Donald Fehr, the head of the players union, for the impasse. But Fehr was not around for the N.H.L. lockout in 1994-95, or the one that wiped out the 2004-5 season -- nobody in the union leadership was.
The only people in leadership positions during all three lockouts are on the league side: Bettman; Jeremy Jacobs, the Boston Bruins' owner; and Bob Batterman, the Proskauer Rose lawyer known for directing sports lockouts. (Daly was a key player in the last two lockouts.)
Lockouts are now a habit with the N.H.L., and this one will continue into 2013, even though the players have made most of the concessions and Bettman is excoriated by figures as diverse as Gov. Chris Christie of New Jersey (''This is the third time this has happened in recent memory -- you know, that's bad management'') and the president of the Kontinental Hockey League, Alexander Medvedev (''How egotistical the N.H.L. is -- financial issues trump the development of the game for them'').
Even if a settlement is reached in the weeks to come, the damage has been done: many avid fans have lost interest, and the N.H.L. has slid back into the near irrelevance in the American sports landscape that it only recently escaped after so many years of struggle.
Daly was talking about contract lengths when he used the ominous phrase, but in the larger sense, he was right. This lockout may indeed be the hill the N.H.L. will die on.
* * *
Losing Marathon, and Heart
By Ken Belson
A wise editor once said, It takes years to build trust and a minute to erase it. He was talking about the news business, but he could also have been talking about New York Road Runners.
The group has spent decades turning its five-borough race, the New York City Marathon, into a 26.2-mile international celebration that unites millions of New Yorkers in the streets every November. It has become one of the city's most heartwarming events.
But much of that good will was swept away after Hurricane Sandy pummeled the city. Rather than cancel the race, which was scheduled for less than a week after the storm, and give its food, water and supplies to the newly homeless or ask runners to donate their entry fees to relief efforts, the running group, egged on by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, forged ahead.
''It's a great event for New York, and I think for those who were lost, you know, you've got to believe they would want us to have an economy and have a city go on for those that they left behind,'' Bloomberg said that week.
The decision backfired. Instead of bucking up the city's spirits, the race became a lightning rod for critics -- including many runners -- who saw Bloomberg and Mary Wittenberg, the chief executive of New York Road Runners, as callous elitists more willing to host out-of-town athletes than to help shivering residents on Staten Island.
When political rivals took aim at him and protesters threatened to disrupt the race, Bloomberg was finally persuaded to call off the race, leaving Wittenberg to repair the event's tattered image. In waiting until the city reached full boil, the mayor and Wittenberg had many asking, What were they thinking?
Institutional inertia was partly to blame. New York Road Runners spends a year preparing for the race; no doubt Wittenberg was reluctant to throw all that work away.
But hubris played a role, too. Did the mayor really believe it was a good idea for police officers, emergency medical technicians and other public workers to man a road race instead of caring for the city's neediest? Did Wittenberg really think the average Joe in Brooklyn was in the mood to cheer for runners who had plenty of food while others scrounged for a meal?
With Bloomberg leaving office in a year, it will be up to Wittenberg to do the tough work of rebuilding the Road Runners brand and winning back the city's heart. Perhaps the hard lessons learned after the storm will not be forgotten.
* * *
In Pictures | Soccer: Olympics, Euro 2012 and Beckham
* * *
Stretching the Invisible Borders of a Sport
By Juliet Macur
Gabby Douglas, the spunky, fresh-faced gymnast once held back by self-doubt, was not supposed to win the gold medal in the all-around at the 2012 London Olympics.
She was what the United States women's team coordinator Martha Karolyi had called ''an average national team gymnast'' who was not even expected to beat a teammate, Jordyn Wieber, the reigning world champion in the all-around. To Karolyi, Wieber was the second coming of Nadia Comaneci, and Douglas was just a sidekick, too inexperienced and unfocused to perform when it counted the most.
But the 16-year-old Douglas skyrocketed to the top of the sport in a matter of five months.
With uncanny steadiness and precision, she won the all-around title at the Olympics -- the first black gymnast to earn the top spot and only the fourth American woman to do so. Afterward, she let out her trademark giggle and said, ''Wow, I believed in myself!'' as if she even amazed herself that she had pulled off what was once unthinkable.
As she stood atop the Olympic podium, Douglas beamed at her family members in the arena as they wiped away tears. Her mother, Natalie Hawkins, a plucky single mother of four, and Douglas's three siblings hugged one another and said, again and again, that all their sacrifices were worth it.
The biggest sacrifice was losing Douglas for nearly two years. In 2010, at age 14, she left her family in Virginia Beach, Va., to train in Iowa with Liang Chow, the coach who had helped Shawn Johnson win an Olympic gold medal in 2008. Douglas lived with a host family because her own family could not afford to pay for her housing.
Though that family, the Partons, was kind and generous, with four young daughters who soon looked to Douglas as a big sister, Douglas felt awkward at first. She missed sleeping in her own bed. She missed her two dogs. And she missed the beach, where she loved to go boogie boarding. She nearly quit the sport because she was so homesick.
But her resolve to stick with it paid off. In March, Douglas recorded the highest score in the women's all-around event at the American Cup, beating Wieber, the favorite to win the Olympic gold. Douglas's score didn't count, though, because she had competed as an alternate. So she stood back to watch Wieber accept the prize.
By July, Douglas had won the Olympic trials, dealing Wieber only her second all-around loss in four years. The next step: the Olympic gold.
Now Douglas has gone big time. She was featured on Corn Flakes boxes and the cover of People magazine. She was named one of the women of the year by magazines like Essence and Glamour.
Douglas had a feeling that this would be her fate.
''I have an advantage because I'm the underdog and I'm black and no one thinks I'd ever win,'' she said two months before the Olympics. ''Well, I'm going to inspire so many people. Everybody will be talking about, 'How did she come up so fast?' But I'm ready to shine.''
* * *
Every Move and Throw Under Watch
By Judy Battista
In any other camp, with any other quarterback, it would have been a simple game of catch while the cool morning mist burned off. But it was Peyton Manning and it was Denver -- Denver, that was strange enough, and John Elway was milling somewhere around those practice fields. And so there were notes to take and charts to keep, a half dozen or so reporters looking on, trying to decide if the touch was still there on the short fade routes Manning tossed over and over to receivers he was just getting to know.
Manning's recovery from four neck operations took the N.F.L. wire to wire in 2012. There were the occasional jabs he threw at the Indianapolis Colts in January as they fired one after another of the people Manning had known for years -- he said then that he was walking on eggshells. Then came his tearful news conference at which his release became official, and a coast-to-coast free agent odyssey, with helicopters and blacked-out car windows, and finally his remarkable on-field resurrection.
Manning was the dominant player of the year, given the sort of scrutiny that usually attends the vicissitudes of royal romances. We saw the video as the Colts removed the building-high pictures of him from the side of their stadium. Then we saw the video as he met surreptitiously with teams -- did the orange sweater mean anything to Manning, a former Tennessee Volunteer, on his visit to the Tennessee Titans? And then we saw the video as Manning barked at his new teammates during a game. Same as it ever was.
From the start in Denver, Manning gamely tried to lower expectations for his play, to no avail. He is still, now, with his team on the cusp of securing a playoff bye, insisting that he has much work to do -- defensive coordinators are probably sick of hearing that -- and he bristled at the dissection of his passes that accompanied his return. But it was Eric Decker, one of the receivers with whom Manning was doing extra work on the side that day in August, who may have given the best indication of what was to come months later.
''I've never seen a guy demand so much out of himself or his teammates,'' he said. ''He throws a football better than I've ever seen a quarterback throw a football. He allows us so many greater opportunities.''
In 2013, Manning may have an opportunity that even he, when he tried to throw a pass to his friend Todd Helton last year that nose-dived into the ground, might never have imagined he'd have again. The Broncos will enter the N.F.L. playoffs as one of the highest seeds, with a top-five offense supported by a top-five defense. From the nadir of his career, Manning has worked himself all the way back -- to be on, maybe, the best team he's ever had.
* * *
States Feed the Spread of Sports Wagering
By Joe Drape
Huey Long, as Louisiana's governor, promised a chicken in every pot. New York's Andrew M. Cuomo wants table games in as many corners of the state as possible, and New Jersey's Chris Christie hopes to build brick-and-mortar sports books and to make the Garden State a hub for online gambling.
They are hardly alone. From Kansas to Massachusetts, there is a gold rush by some states to embrace all forms of wagering to shore up their shrinking budgets.
Think of 2013 as a roulette wheel and a host of states with marbles in the game. New York intends to lay the groundwork for seven casinos. Ground is also likely to be broken in Massachusetts for three, including one in the Boston area.
And with Nevada having already approved online poker and begun preparing sites to be operating in early 2013, Governor Christie is certain to have the fate of Atlantic City, as well as the state's horse racing industry, in his hands as two bills continue to gather momentum.
An online gambling bill has already passed the New Jersey Assembly and Senate, and one of Internet gambling's top sites, PokerStars, is negotiating to acquire the Atlantic Club casino on the Jersey Shore.
This would be no less than a portal to the 22nd century and perhaps a mother lode for new tax revenue.
Christie has also vowed to defy a federal ban on sports wagering, and New Jersey's Legislature enacted a sports betting law in January, paving the way for sports books in Atlantic City casinos and the state's horse racing tracks.
The N.C.A.A. and three professional leagues argue that gambling hurts the integrity and perception of their games. This is an especially rich argument coming from the National Football League since two of its earliest owners, Art Rooney and Tim Mara, were gamblers. In 1936, Rooney, whose family still owns the Pittsburgh Steelers, turned two prescient days at the racetrack into $300,000. In 1925, Mara, a bookmaker, paid $500 for the Giants.
The N.F.L. injury report and betting lines certainly exist for a reason, and it's no accident that the league accounts for nearly 55 percent of the more than $1.3 billion wagered on football in Nevada in 2011.
So the leagues have done pretty well for decades alongside legalized sports gambling in Nevada, with billions more of illegal betting in bar rooms, fantasy leagues and offshore Web sites.
Now, the question being asked in state and federal courthouses is: why not take the sports book national, or even global?
* * *
After the Storm, Brooklyn's Moment
By Benjamin Hoffman
Everything had gone right for the Nets. Their new home in Brooklyn was complete, their apparel had become a huge hit among fans, they unexpectedly retained their signature star, and they were going to be able to show all of that off in a season opener against the Knicks.
Then Hurricane Sandy hit.
With the city's tunnels flooded, gasoline becoming scarce and the subway system shut down, suddenly the opener, scheduled for Nov. 1, had to be postponed and all of the excitement seemed to wither away.
Two days later, with the transit system still a mess and the city in a fierce debate over the cancellation of the marathon, it was decided that the Nets would go ahead with their scheduled game against the Toronto Raptors, a far less exciting opponent than the Knicks, risking empty seats in what they had hoped would be their grand debut.
A message posted to Twitter by Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo that morning got things going in the right direction as he announced that the 4 and 5 trains would resume service, meaning that the large number of people in Manhattan hoping to see the game (including this reporter, who lives in Brooklyn but found himself working in Times Square that morning) would not have to brave the long lines for slow shuttle buses or break out their swim trunks for a jaunt across the East River.
As people shuffled onto the train at Grand Central Terminal, more than a few Nets hats were visible as everyone seemed somewhat unsure that the subways could really be back. Just days before, people had been walking to work across the Brooklyn Bridge and through a mostly abandoned and powerless downtown, but now the city was starting to feel more like itself.
Come game time, the crowd had filled out nicely, helped by a last-minute surge in ticket sales through online marketplaces like StubHub, and the Nets took the floor with Jay-Z watching and BrooklyKnight rappelling from the ceiling.
It was not a pretty game, with the Nets falling behind early and then struggling to catch up, but a strong second quarter led to the first major Brooklyn sports team since 1957 winning, 107-100.
Considering everything that had gone into the move from New Jersey, and the conditions surrounding the season's start, the actual basketball was the easy part.
* * *
A Stoicism That Can't Be Cracked
By Naila-Jean Meyers
A single clap. Andy Murray had just broken Novak Djokovic for the second time in the fifth set of the United States Open final, and all he got from his coach, Ivan Lendl, was one measly clap. In the previous set, when Murray won an exhilarating 30-shot rally and the nearly 24,000 fans at Arthur Ashe Stadium erupted, Lendl did not see fit to join that ovation either.
It was hard to take my eyes off Lendl that Monday night as the captivated crowd surrounding him gasped and roared at every lunging forehand and ripped backhand -- even with the distraction of Sean Connery sitting nearby, wrapped in a blue blanket and pumping his fist for Murray, his fellow Scot.
As a summer's day became a blustery night, as Djokovic and Murray took turns muttering to themselves, Lendl was the model of stoic calm -- awkwardly dressed in a red sweater and white shorts, often hunched over, elbow on knee, chin in hand.
But that's why he was there. That's why the mercurial Murray chose Lendl to be his coach this year. Lendl knew what it was like to come so close and fall short over and over. He knew, as Murray knew, as Britain knew. There would be no cheering until it was over.
Murray took us along on his emotional roller coaster in 2012. The heartbreak of his loss in the Wimbledon final, when he had Roger Federer on his heels, then the rain came, the roof closed, and it ended with Murray tearfully saying, ''Getting closer.'' The leap for joy one month later when Murray dismantled Federer on the same court for the Olympic gold medal, part of the crescendo of British athletic greatness at the London Games. The relief -- the word Murray chose when asked to summarize his feelings -- when he outlasted Djokovic that September night for his coveted first Grand Slam title, becoming the first British man to capture a Grand Slam singles championship since Fred Perry in 1936.
When it was really, truly over, Murray was holding the trophy and thanking his coach in front of the crowd, saying, ''I think that was almost a smile.''
The match itself was a roller coaster. Murray won the first two sets, including a 12-10 first-set tiebreaker, then saw Djokovic fight back. They played for 4 hours 54 minutes, on the 15th day of another United States Open tormented by bad weather.
For the record, it wasn't even the longest Grand Slam final this year: that was Djokovic's 5-hour-53-minute victory over Rafael Nadal at the Australian Open. It was a can-you-top-this year for men's tennis. Djokovic, Nadal, Federer and Murray each won Grand Slam tournaments. Federer reclaimed the No. 1 ranking for four months and won his first major title in two and a half years. Djokovic won six titles, returned to No. 1 and was the player of the year. All that was missing was a full-strength Nadal, who succumbed to bad knees after winning the French Open.
A liberated Murray. A persistent Djokovic. A determined Federer. A (hopefully) healthy Nadal. It's shaping up to be a 2013 season that might make even Lendl stand up and cheer.
* * *
Finding Security In a Different SEC
By Brad Smith
When I first moved to New York in 1981, I was pleasantly surprised to learn how much New Yorkers loved college football. As I moved from the South, where Saturdays in the fall rival Sundays for the holiest of days, my belief that it was a regional sport was put aside.
Virtually every day in the paper and on the news, there was a mention of the SEC. Being loyal to my own Southeastern Conference team (Florida), I was happy to know that I was living in the Greatest City in the World, which in turn was equally infatuated with the Greatest Conference in the World. But because of the Ivan Boeskys of the world, I soon learned that the Securities and Exchange Commission was not the SEC I grew up rooting for. New York's S.E.C. was not my SEC.
When I hear SEC today, thankfully, Wall Street is not at the front of my thoughts. I'm thinking of Gainesville, Tuscaloosa and Athens. And while there are similarities between the two (much of the country loathes both, for example), I'm forever locked into the one that throws the pigskin for a long gain, not the one that looks for long-term gains on pork futures. Besides, to paraphrase Babe Ruth, my SEC had a better year than that S.E.C. As a matter of fact, six in a row.
Starting with the 2006 Bowl Championship Series title game between Florida and Ohio State, the SEC has won six consecutive national championships, with four teams. (Florida, Louisiana State, Alabama and Auburn). This past January, much to the disappointment of 99 percent of the country and a television network, two SEC teams played for the title (Alabama and L.S.U.). This year, Alabama is again carrying the torch for the conference of (my) choice, and Notre Dame carrying it for, well, the other 10 conferences and the other 109 teams in the Football Bowl Subdivision.
Division I college football has been dominated by one conference, one I'm proud to be a die-hard fan of for four decades. As I look at my increasingly small savings account, it's quite obvious I've spent way too much time following Barrett Jones rather than Dow Jones. For me, it was money well spent.
* * *
Cricket Rivalry of Nations, All for a Six-Inch Trophy
By Victor Mather
For much of the late 20th and early 21st centuries, there were fewer sure things in sports than the result of the Ashes, the cricket series held every two years between Australia and England.
Regular as clockwork, the Australians drubbed their rivals, winning eight straight series from 1989 to 2003.
But that changed in 2005, when England pulled off an upset that pushed soccer off the London tabloids' back pages. After an Australian win in 2007, the English have seemed to take over dominance with wins in 2009 and 2011. The series resumes this summer, with anticipation high in both hemispheres.
Cricket has been booming in many parts of the world, thanks to a new fast format known as Twenty20, in which matches can be completed in less than the time of a baseball game.
But the Ashes is old school. The teams play a series of five matches, each lasting five days, with six hours of play or more each day. A single player may bat for hours or even all day, gamely hitting defensive shots (something like fouling off pitches in baseball) in hopes of securing a draw. It is not for the casual fan.
But for the aficionados, there is nothing like the Ashes, especially when played, as it will be this summer, at the hallowed English grounds like Lord's and the Oval.
Most English cricket fans can tell you every detail of the match in Leeds in 1981 when their team rallied from a hopeless position (they trailed by 227 runs after one innings and bowled Australia out for 111!). And Australians love to crow about their 5-0 series sweep of 2007, the first since 1921.
The Ashes dates to 1882, when after an Australian win a newspaper published a mock obituary proclaiming the death of English cricket and stating that ''the body will be cremated and the ashes taken to Australia.'' A few weeks later, an English team went off to Australia and its captain, Ivo Bligh, vowed to return with ''the ashes.'' An Australian team presented him with a tiny urn symbolic of the Ashes. At about six inches, it is surely the smallest major sports trophy in the world.
Under a new captain, Alastair Cook, and with the mercurial superstar Kevin Pietersen back in the fold after a text messaging controversy, England is the clear favorite.
In the storied history of the series, Australia leads by 31-30. Wouldn't the English love to even that up this summer?
* * *
Falling Apart After Getting It Half Right
By Bill Pennington
Tiger Woods came off the 18th green after his second round in the 2012 P.G.A. Championship at Kiawah Island tied for the lead. Again.
It was the third consecutive major championship that Woods was in or near the lead at the halfway point.
This had once been a familiar sight -- missing maybe for a couple of years, but for more than a decade before, the golf world knew exactly how Woods looked in command of a big tournament. And fans worldwide knew the frequent outcome: 14 major victories.
But in 2012, as good as Woods could sometimes be, there was one Woods on the weekdays of major tournaments and an altogether different Woods on the weekends, especially the last three.
His average score in the first two rounds of this year's majors was 70, while his average score in the final two rounds was 72.9. It was worse than the statistics indicated -- no weekend round under par and three rounds of 74 or higher. In the final three majors, Woods's average weekday round was even lower (68.8). His weekend average was 72.8.
This was Tiger Woods, golf's ultimate closer?
Not insignificant, it was notable who stole the show from Woods on the final days of the P.G.A. As the third round began at Kiawah Island in early August, Rory McIlroy birdied five of his first nine holes. Well aware of McIlroy's fast start, Woods answered by going three over par in his first seven holes -- holes he had played in three under during the first two rounds.
Woods was not just off his game, he was having trouble keeping the ball in play. With a 15th career major on the line, he yanked tee shots onto adjacent holes, hit one shot into the crowd, flew the green on a par 3 and, at one point, hit three consecutive, dreadfully wayward shots.
In the final round the next day, McIlroy shot a 66 to win by eight strokes. Woods shot a 72 and settled for 11th. Who would have ever thought Tiger Woods would settle for anything in a championship moment?
''I've got to just keep putting myself in a position to win, and if it happens often enough, then I will win,'' Woods said afterward, uttering a line that sounded as if it came from an up-and-coming rookie waiting to break through on the PGA Tour. Except Woods turns 37 on Dec. 30.
This is not to say that Woods will not win another major. He may win two in 2013 and two more the year after that. It is certainly more promising for him that he came close three times in 2012, which was a departure from his middling performances in 2010 and 2011. But the cracks in the armor are breaches apparent to all at this point. Even as he finished the second round at the P.G.A. Championship in August -- with a chance to take the outright lead -- what did Woods do?
He three-putted the 18th green.
It may all be a part of the process that Woods likes to talk about these days. Every revival has its incremental steps forward. And every retreat has its incremental steps backward.
In time, we will see which way Woods is marching. But throughout this year, it was odd to watch him fall apart so routinely because he was the one golfer you once could routinely count on to do the opposite.
* * *
Upon Further Review, the Truth Is Revealed
By John Branch
The following story is not true -- yet.
After years of experimenting and increasing the use of instant replay to weed out errors in officiating, several American sports will no longer be held live, but entirely on replay, to ensure that there were no mistakes.
In the N.F.L., for example, the hope is to eliminate delays caused by the persistent huddling of indecisive officials and the frequent departure of the referee to watch the replay in a private sideline viewing chamber.
Now, the game itself will be the replay.
''We have to work out some of the logistics,'' N.F.L. Commissioner Roger Goodell said. ''For example, how do we have a replay before we have an actual game? But we're optimistic that we'll solve it. We're the N.F.L.''
Replay reviews, while appreciated by those who want near perfection in officiating, have been the source of much frustration for N.F.L. fans in particular. Many insist that they have better things to do than waste an extra two or three minutes of a Sunday after having already set aside their day in three-, six- or nine-hour increments.
The N.B.A. may create a model for others to follow. It will initially conduct all its games at empty arenas, then re-enact them in front of fans so officiating crews will not be met with surprises.
Any last-second baskets, or long jump shots made with a toe imperceptibly close to the 3-point line, will have been rehearsed. That will prevent the familiar momentum-killing sight of officiating crews bent over tiny sideline replay monitors while fans around the globe are forced to wait, as if they have time for that.
Now, the outcome of the play will be known before it happens.
''We really feel this will speed up our games,'' N.B.A. Commissioner David Stern said in a statement.
Major League Baseball finds replay useful mostly in determining whether a ball lands over a large fence or in front of the fence, or on one side of an enormous neon-colored pole or the other. Rather than relying on replay, baseball is considering whether to gauge home runs by watching to see if the ball goes over the large fence and on one side of the nearest enormous neon-colored pole.
The N.C.A.A. may eliminate the use of instant replay. The outcomes of the games are not important, an N.C.A.A. spokesman said, because what matters most is that the athletes get a good education. Human fallibility is a worthy lesson, he added.
The impetus for all the changes came from last summer's United States Olympic track and field trials, during which Allyson Felix and Jeneba Tarmoh tied in the 100 meters. No number of replays -- or discussions over the exact location of the torso -- could discern a winner.
The delay was not minutes, but days. Finally, the answer came straight from the schoolyard: a do-over.
Alas, a runoff never happened; Tarmoh declined to take part.
Still, it made sports executives realize that if we simply had the final answer in the first place, fans would not be forced to wait for the result. The solution, in front of us all along, is simply to make replay the game itself.
* * *
What Might Have Been, or Still Could Be
By Barry Bearak
When Derrick Rose went down with a torn-up left knee, it was hard not to contemplate the career he might never have: the lost Most Valuable Player awards and the never-to-be-won N.B.A. titles. The Chicago Bulls announcer Stacey King liked to describe the electrifying Rose as ''too big, too strong, too fast, too good.''
Was he now to add ''too sad''?
The post-Michael Jordan Bulls were a dismal, star-crossed team, suffering a decade of mediocrity until a gust of good luck blew their way. In the 2008 draft, the team vaulted from the No. 9 spot to No. 1, hitting the jackpot when they had only a 1.7 percent chance to win the lottery.
Rose, a 19-year-old point guard and Chicago native, became the rookie of the year and then an All-Star, then the league's youngest M.V.P. ever, leading the Bulls to the N.B.A.'s best record two years in a row. He was also likable in a Windy City sort of way: not a preening, partying prima donna, but a guy who squared his big shoulders and quietly went about his business.
In the strike-shortened 2011-12 season, Rose missed 27 of the 66 games with injuries that seemed to skip up and down his lower extremities: the foot, the ankle, the knee, the groin. But he was healthy in April when the playoffs began, and in the first game of the opening series, the top-seeded Bulls were easily beating the Philadelphia 76ers.
Then, with 1 minute 22 seconds left and Chicago ahead by 12, Rose moved toward the hoop with the ball, cutting right in his customary whirligig fashion, though this time awkwardly planting his left foot on the floor. He heard a pop. He had torn the anterior cruciate ligament.
Rose writhed in pain. The arena went silent. And the long months of wondering began. Would a reborn Derrick Rose with a rebuilt knee ever again come gyrating through the lane -- too big, too strong, too fast, too good -- looking every bit as amazing as the original?
* * *
No Place to Hide When a Ball Comes Back
By Tyler Kepner
It was an ordinary pitch, 91 miles per hour on the outside corner, not much different from the 1,651 others Brandon McCarthy had thrown last season. From the press box at Oakland Coliseum that September afternoon, it looked for an instant like a routine single to center by the Angels' Erick Aybar.
But the ball never got there. It crashed into the back of McCarthy's head. He tried to escape its path but could not react in time. McCarthy, then with the Athletics, crumpled to the ground. It was a moment that made you wince -- ''It was really hard to see,'' his opponent, Dan Haren, said after the game -- but McCarthy sat up almost instantly, running his hands through his hair, and he walked off the field. Disaster averted.
Again, a wrong assumption, or nearly so. McCarthy was taken to a hospital for a precautionary examination, and soon, he was in surgery. The line drive had fractured his skull and caused an epidural hemorrhage and brain contusion. McCarthy recovered but missed the rest of the season.
The next month, across the bay in San Francisco in Game 2 of the World Series, another tall and lanky right-hander threw another pitch destined for danger. Doug Fister of the Detroit Tigers took a liner off the right side of his head from the Giants' Gregor Blanco. Yet Fister did not even fall. After an exam on the mound, he kept pitching.
''Got a little bump,'' he said by his locker, casually. ''Other than that, there's nothing.''
The events were harrowing reminders of the destructive force of a batted ball, and the varying consequences of two hits that may look the same. McCarthy was lucky to be alive; Fister was luckier still. But a first-base coach in the minors, Mike Coolbaugh, was killed by a foul ball in 2007. Now all base coaches in the minors and the majors wear helmets.
After Fister was struck, the Fox broadcaster Tim McCarver raised on the air the possibility of pitchers' wearing helmets. Some players lampooned the idea on Twitter, but in December, ESPN reported that baseball was working with six companies designing protective headgear for pitchers. A selection of prototypes could be available in time for spring training.
Hitters have been slow to accept safer, oversize helmets, and a padded pitcher's cap would seem to face similar resistance. Pitchers depend on precise, repetitive movements and will be wary of anything disruptive. Besides, nobody wants to look funny.
Comfort, style and safety are often competing interests. Sometimes, though, they could come together to save a pitcher's life. Let's hope it happens soon.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Taking Risks in Hopes of a Reward: Above, Juan Jose Padilla of Spain, who lost sight in one eye and has partial facial paralysis after a terrifying goring, returned to the bullring March 4, five months after his injury. Below, Thomas Danielson of the United States after a crash about 16 miles from the finish line during the sixth stage of the Tour de France on July 6. He pulled out of the race with injuries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DANIEL OCHOA DE OLZA/ASSOCIATED PRESS
LAURENT CIPRIANI/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
The height of Linsanity: Jeremy Lin's 38 points against Kobe Bryant and the Lakers in February. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RAY STUBBLEBINE/REUTERS)
In mascot collective bargaining, Mr. Met's perpetual smile might be expected to eventually grate on the owners. (D6)
Above, a surfer in Cardiff, Calif., taking advantage of the large swells hitting the California coastline at dusk on Jan. 5. Below, a cowboy and his horse taking a spill during a rodeo competition April 6 in Montevideo, Uruguay. Montevideo's town council organizes a rodeo every Holy Week that attracts the best riders from Uruguay and its neighboring countries Brazil and Argentina. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE BLAKE/REUTERS
MATILDE CAMPODONICO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
Prince Fielder, the son of the Tigers star Cecil Fielder, in Detroit with son Jadyn. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
 Rory McIlroy in the third round of the Masters. He had his bad days. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STREETER LECKA/GETTY IMAGES) (D7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS FANS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SURFING (78%)

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES LAKERS (83%); DETROIT TIGERS (59%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%)

PERSON: KOBE BRYANT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); URUGUAY (92%); SPAIN (79%); BRAZIL (79%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



989 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; LOOKING AHEAD; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words

HEADLINE: Economic Reports for the Week Ahead

 BODY:
ECONOMIC REPORTS Data to be released this week includes the I.S.M. manufacturing index for December and construction spending for November (Wednesday); ADP employment for December and weekly jobless claims (Thursday); and unemployment for December, the I.S.M. service index for December and factory orders for November (Friday). 
IN THE UNITED STATES On Monday, the United States bond market will close at 2 p.m.
On Tuesday, financial markets, government offices and most businesses will be closed in observance of New Year's Day.
On Thursday, automakers will report their North American sales for December, retailers will report their same-store sales for December, and the Federal Open Market Committee will release the minutes from its Dec. 11-12 meeting.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CALENDARS (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (90%); CONSTRUCTION SPENDING (88%); RETAILERS (85%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (73%); BONDS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); SAME STORE SALES (66%); RETAIL SALES (66%); AUTOMAKERS (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



990 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 127 words

HEADLINE: The Echoes Of a Year's Refrains

 BODY:
So much of public life this year was dominated by economic and political spectacles. Why would the Metropolitan Opera stage be any different? That is where Deborah Voigt, above, starred as Brünnhilde in Wagner's ''Götterdämmerung'' to end the ''Ring'' cycle conjured by the director Robert Lepage. Renee Robinson, right, gave her farewell performance with Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater after more than 30 years as a professional. Music and sports fans embraced a new beginning in Brooklyn: the opening of the Barclays Center. And as the year neared an end, Bruce Springsteen, left, and friends gathered at Madison Square Garden for the 12-12-12 benefit concert to help victims of Hurricane Sandy. They raised about $50 million. 
More photographs, Pages 4 and 5.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SARA KRULWICH/THE NEW YORK TIMES
DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ANDREA MOHIN/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OPERA (90%); MUSIC (88%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (86%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); DANCE (69%); SPORTS FANS (53%); TROPICAL STORMS (53%); HURRICANES (50%); HURRICANE SANDY (50%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (58%); BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



991 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1441 words

HEADLINE: Chinese Regulator's Relatives Profited From Stake in Insurer

BYLINE: By DAVID BARBOZA

 BODY:
SHANGHAI -- Relatives of a top Chinese regulator profited enormously from the purchase of shares in a once-struggling insurance company that is now one of China's biggest financial powerhouses, according to interviews and a review of regulatory filings.
The regulator, Dai Xianglong, was the head of China's central bank and also had oversight of the insurance industry in 2002, when a company his relatives helped control bought a big stake in Ping An Insurance that years later came to be worth billions of dollars. The insurer was drawing new investors ahead of a public stock offering after averting insolvency a few years earlier.
With growing attention on the wealth amassed by families of the politically powerful in China, the investments of Mr. Dai's relatives illustrate that the riches extend beyond the families of the political elites to the families of regulators with control of the country's most important business and financial levers. Mr. Dai, an economist, has since left his post with the central bank and now manages the country's $150 billion social security fund, one of the world's biggest investment funds.
How much the relatives made in the deal is not known, but analysts say the activity raises further doubts about whether the capital markets are sufficiently regulated in China. 
Nicholas C. Howson, an expert in Chinese securities law at the University of Michigan Law School, said: ''While not per se illegal or even evidence of corruption, these transactions feed into a problematic perception that is widespread in the P.R.C.: the relatives of China's highest officials are given privileged access to pre-I.P.O. properties.'' He was using the abbreviation for China's official name, the People's Republic of China.
The company that bought the Ping An stake was controlled by a group of investment firms, including two set up by Mr. Dai's son-in-law, Che Feng, as well as other firms associated with Mr. Che's relatives and business associates, the regulatory filings show.
The company, Dinghe Venture Capital, got the shares for an extremely good price, the records show, paying a small fraction of what a large British bank had paid per share just two months earlier. The company paid $55 million for its Ping An shares on Dec. 26, 2002. By 2007, the last time the value of the investment was made public, the shares were worth $3.1 billion.
In its investigation, The New York Times found no indication that Mr. Dai had been aware of his relatives' activities, or that any law had been broken. But the relatives appeared to have made a fortune by investing in financial services companies over which Mr. Dai had regulatory authority.
In another instance, in November 2002, Dinghe acquired a big stake in Haitong Securities, a brokerage firm that also fell under Mr. Dai's jurisdiction, according to the brokerage firm's Shanghai prospectus.
By 2007, just after Haitong's public listing in Shanghai, those shares were worth about $1 billion, according to public filings. Later, between 2007 and 2010, Mr. Dai's wife, Ke Yongzhen, was chairwoman on Haitong's board of supervisors.
A spokesman for Mr. Dai and the National Social Security Fund did not return phone calls seeking comment. A spokeswoman for Mr. Che, the son-in-law, denied by e-mail that he had ever held a stake in Ping An. The spokeswoman said another businessman had bought the Ping An shares and then, facing financial difficulties, sold them to a group that included Mr. Che's friends and relatives, but not Mr. Che.
The businessman ''could not afford what he has created, so he had to sell his shares all at once,'' the spokeswoman, Jenny Lau, wrote in an e-mail.
The corporate records reviewed by The Times, however, show that Mr. Che, his relatives and longtime business associates set up a complex web of companies that effectively gave him and the others control of Dinghe Venture Capital, which made the investments in Ping An and Haitong Securities. The records show that one of the companies later nominated Mr. Che to serve on the Ping An board of supervisors. His term ran from 2006 to 2009.
The Times reported last month that another investment company had also bought shares in Ping An Insurance at an unusually low price on the same day in 2002 as Dinghe Venture Capital. That company, Tianjin Taihong, was later partly controlled by relatives of Prime Minister Wen Jiabao, then serving as vice premier with oversight of China's financial institutions. In late 2007, the shares Taihong bought in Ping An were valued at $3.7 billion.
The investments by Dinghe and Taihong are significant in part because by late 2002, Beijing regulators had granted Ping An an unusual waiver to rules that would have forced the insurer to sell off some divisions. Throughout the late 1990s, the company was fighting rules that would have required a breakup, a move that Ping An executives worried could lead to bankruptcy.
It is unclear whether Mr. Wen or Mr. Dai intervened on behalf of Ping An, but in April 2002 the company was allowed to reorganize and retain its brokerage and trust division. Two years later, Ping An sold shares to the public for the first time in Hong Kong. In 2007, after a second stock listing in Shanghai, the value of the company's shares skyrocketed. Today, Ping An is one of the world's biggest financial institutions, worth an estimated $65 billion.
The decision to grant the waiver came after Ping An executives and the insurer's bankers had aggressively lobbied regulators, including Mr. Dai.
The Times reviewed copies of letters written to Mr. Dai. In one, Ma Mingzhe, the chairman of Ping An, pleaded with Mr. Dai to approve an overseas stock offering in 1998, saying, ''It would be rather difficult to raise such a huge amount of money in the domestic market.''
The regulatory filings show that Dinghe, the company partly controlled by Mr. Dai's relatives, got an extremely good deal on the shares of Ping An it had bought. In December 2002, Dinghe bought 66.5 million shares from Cosco, a Chinese state-owned shipping giant, paying about 40 cents a share, after adjusting for a later stock split, according to public filings and a report in a state-run newspaper. It was the same price paid by Taihong, the company affiliated with the relatives of Mr. Wen.
The price was much lower than what the British bank HSBC paid for a 10 percent stake in Ping An in October of that year. HSBC paid what at today's exchange rates would be $1.60 a share.
It is unclear why Cosco would have sold Ping An shares at such a substantial discount. Cosco did not return calls seeking comment. A spokeswoman for Ping An also did not return calls.
Mr. Dai, 68, has had a long career as a government regulator and an executive at state-owned companies. He held high-level positions at the Agricultural Bank of China, China Pacific Insurance and, in the early 1990s, at the Bank of Communications, where he oversaw Haitong Securities, the bank's brokerage division.
In 1995, he was appointed head of China's central bank, one of the nation's most powerful financial posts. He stepped down in December 2002 to become mayor of Tianjin. Then, in 2008, he became head of the National Council for Social Security Fund. During much of his career, he developed close ties with senior Chinese leaders, including Mr. Wen, who served with him on the powerful Central Financial Work Commission. The commission oversaw China's banking, securities and insurance regulators, and the biggest financial institutions.
Big financial services companies also sought Mr. Dai's aid in navigating the state's tight regulatory environment. For instance, Ping An's longtime chairman, Mr. Ma, kept a telephone directory with Mr. Dai's name, as well as the name of his wife and son-in-law, according to records reviewed by The Times and an interview with a former staff assistant to Mr. Ma.
In addition, Li Chunyan, who once ran Ping An's Beijing office, said last month in a telephone interview that he had set up meetings between Mr. Ma and relatives of Mr. Dai, including his son-in-law, Mr. Che.
''I wouldn't say I introduced them, but I brought them,'' he said, declining to give details. ''I'm just a small potato, you know.'' He added, ''I'm very familiar with the family of Mr. Dai.''
Later, at the National Council for Social Security Fund, Mr. Dai began overseeing a huge fund that has acquired stakes in Haitong and Ping An. Last September, the government-controlled social security fund said it would allocate $3.6 billion to a group of 16 Chinese private equity funds, including New Horizon Capital, a fund whose founders include Wen Yunsong, the only son of the prime minister.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Ping An International Finance Center, being built in Shenzhen. Ping An is among the world's biggest financial institutions. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GILLES SABRIE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Dai Xianglong, who has had a long career as a regulator, now heads the council overseeing China's social security fund. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHINAFOTOPRESS/GETTY IMAGES) (A3) CHARTS: A Lucrative Stock Sale: On Dec. 26, 2002, Cosco, a global shipping giant owned by the Chinese government, sold 246.4 million shares of Ping An to three companies, including two with ties to relatives of high-ranking Chinese officials. (Source: Ping An prospectus
 corporate registration filings.) (A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); BANKING IN CHINA (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); STOCK OFFERINGS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); VENTURE CAPITAL (70%); LAW SCHOOLS (70%); LAWYERS (66%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (65%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); CORRUPTION (64%)

COMPANY: PING AN INSURANCE (GROUP) CO OF CHINA LTD (92%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (54%)

TICKER: 2318 (HKSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (92%) EAST CHINA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



992 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; BITS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 811 words

HEADLINE: The Real Hazards Of E-Devices on Planes

BYLINE: By NICK BILTON

 BODY:
Over the last year, flying with phones and other devices has become increasingly dangerous.
In September, a passenger was arrested in El Paso after refusing to turn off his cellphone as the plane was landing. In October, a man in Chicago was arrested because he used his iPad during takeoff. In November, half a dozen police cars raced across the tarmac at La Guardia Airport in New York, surrounding a plane as if there were a terrorist on board. They arrested a 30-year-old man who had also refused to turn off his phone while on the runway.
Who is to blame in these episodes? You can't solely pin it on the passengers. Some of the responsibility falls on the Federal Aviation Administration, for continuing to uphold a rule that is based on the unproven idea that a phone or tablet can interfere with the operation of a plane. 
These conflicts have been going on for several years. In 2010, a 68-year-old man punched a teenager because he didn't turn off his phone. Lt. Kent Lipple of the Boise Police Department in Idaho, who arrested the puncher, said the man "felt he was protecting the entire plane and its occupants." And let's not forget Alec Baldwin, who was kicked off an American Airlines plane in 2011 for playing Words With Friends online while parked at the gate.
Dealing with the F.A.A. on this topic is like arguing with a stubborn teenager. The agency has no proof that electronic devices can harm a plane's avionics, but it still perpetuates such claims, spreading irrational fear among millions of fliers.
A year ago, when I first asked Les Dorr, a spokesman for the F.A.A., why the rule existed, he said the agency was being cautious because there was no proof that device use was completely safe. He also said it was because passengers needed to pay attention during takeoff.
When I asked why I can read a printed book but not a digital one, the agency changed its reasoning. I was told by another F.A.A. representative that it was because an iPad or Kindle could put out enough electromagnetic emissions to disrupt the flight. Yet a few weeks later, the F.A.A. proudly announced that pilots could now use iPads in the cockpit instead of paper flight manuals.
The F.A.A. then told me that "two iPads are very different than 200." But experts at EMT Labs, an independent testing facility in Mountain View, Calif., say there is no difference in radio output between two iPads and 200. "Electromagnetic energy doesn't add up like that," said Kevin Bothmann, the EMT Labs testing manager.
It's not a matter of a flying device hitting another passenger, either. Kindles weigh less than six ounces; Walter Isaacson's biography of Steve Jobs weighs 2.1 pounds in hardcover. I'd rather be hit in the head by an iPad Mini than a 650-page book.
In October, after months of pressure from the public and the news media, the F.A.A. finally said it would begin a review of its policies on electronic devices in all phases of flight, including takeoff and landing. But the agency does not have a set time frame for announcing its findings.
An F.A.A. spokeswoman told me last week that the agency was preparing to move to the next phase of its work in this area, and would appoint members to a rule-making committee that will begin meeting in January.
The F.A.A. should check out an annual report issued by NASA that compiles cases involving electronic devices on planes. None of those episodes have produced scientific evidence that a device can harm a plane's operation. Reports of such interference have been purely speculation by pilots about the cause of a problem.
Other government agencies and elected officials are finally getting involved.
This December, Julius Genachowski, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, sent a letter to the F.A.A. telling the agency that it had a responsibility to "enable greater use of tablets, e-readers and other portable devices" during flights, as they empower people and allow "both large and small businesses to be more productive and efficient, helping drive economic growth and boost U.S. competitiveness."
A week later, Senator Claire McCaskill, Democrat of Missouri, also sent a letter to the F.A.A. noting that the public was "growing increasingly skeptical of prohibitions" on devices on airplanes. She warned that she was "prepared to pursue legislative solutions should progress be made too slowly."
If progress is slow, there will eventually be an episode on a plane in which someone is seriously harmed as a result of a device being on during takeoff. But it won't be because the device is interfering with the plane's systems. Instead, it will be because one passenger harms another, believing they are protecting the plane from a Kindle, which produces fewer electromagnetic emissions than a calculator.
E-mail: bilton@nytimes.com
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARRESTS (91%); TABLET COMPUTERS (89%); AIRLINES (78%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); AVIONICS (78%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (78%); AVIATION TRANSPORTATION LAW (77%); POLICE FORCES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (71%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); BIOGRAPHY PUBLISHING (66%); TEST LABORATORIES (63%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (61%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: ALEC BALDWIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



993 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: Experts Forecast the Cost Of Failure to Compromise

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
Even if President Obama and Republicans in Congress can reach a last-minute compromise that averts some tax increases before Monday's midnight deadline, experts still foresee a significant drag on the economy in the first half of 2013 from the fiscal impasse in Washington.
While negotiators in the capital focus on keeping Bush-era tax rates in place for all but the wealthiest Americans, other tax increases are expected to go into effect regardless of what happens in the coming days. For example, a two percentage point jump in payroll taxes for Social Security is all but certain after Jan. 1, a change that will equal an additional $2,000 from the paycheck of a worker earning $100,000 a year. 
Many observers initially expected the lower payroll-tax deduction rate of 4.2 percent to be preserved. But in recent weeks, as it became clear that political leaders were prepared to let that rate rise to 6.2 percent, economists reduced their predictions for growth in the first quarter accordingly.
Largely because of this jump in payroll taxes, Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight, is halving his prediction for economic growth in the first quarter to 1 percent from an earlier estimate of just over 2 percent. That represents a significant slowdown in economic growth from the third quarter of 2012, when the economy expanded at an annual rate of 3.1 percent.
Mr. Obama has pushed to preserve Bush-era tax rates on income below $250,000 a year but Republicans have held out for a higher threshold, perhaps in the neighborhood of $400,000 a year. Republicans also favor deeper spending cuts to curb long-term budget deficits -- a move many Democrats oppose.
While hopes dimmed Sunday afternoon that a deal could be reached before Jan. 1, most observers said they did not expect the full impact from more than $600 billion in potential tax increases and spending cuts to swamp the economy right away. Indeed, a compromise could be struck in the coming weeks that heads off the worst of the fallout.
In the event no compromise is found, however, the Congressional Budget Office and many private economists warn that the sudden pullback in spending and the rise in taxes would push the economy into recession in the first half of the year. Under this outcome, Mr. Gault said, the economy could shrink by 0.5 percent over all of 2013.
With the clock ticking, some observers bolstered their criticism of Washington. ''If we have a recession, it's unforgivable,'' said Bernard Baumohl, chief global economist at the Economic Outlook Group. ''For the first time in modern history, we will have a self-inflicted recession in the U.S.''
Despite Washington's history of delaying fiscal compromises to the last possible minute -- as in the fight over raising the debt ceiling in the summer of 2011 -- investors had assumed until very recently that a deal would be completed before year-end.
But last week, stocks sold off as hopes for a quick compromise faded. More pressure on shares is expected beginning on Monday, especially if the fight does indeed slip into 2013. If anything forces politicians to act, Mr. Baumohl said, it could be a sell-off on Wall Street. ''The politicians need to be pressed by markets to be forced to the table,'' he said.
Payroll managers at many companies are also watching the negotiations closely but have already prepared systems for the two percentage point change in payroll taxes, said Scott A. Schapiro, a principal at KPMG.
''We're primarily closed down from Christmas to New Year's,'' he said, ''but our payroll folks are working. Payroll has to be around.''
''This is one of the most obvious effects of the fiscal cliff,'' Mr. Schapiro added, ''because it will affect all taxpayers.'' The Social Security payroll tax applies to the first $113,700 of annual income, he said. It was first cut by Congress in late 2010 to help give the economy a jolt, and was extended again last year to cover 2012.
Another big question mark is whether unemployment benefits for more than two million jobless Americans will be extended beyond Jan. 1. While there is still the possibility these payouts for the long-term unemployed will be preserved as the negotiations go down to the wire, failure to extend them would deliver another sizable blow to a still-fragile economy, experts said.
''This is not just an inside-the-Beltway-game,'' said Vincent Reinhart, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley. ''Both the payroll tax increase and the change in unemployment benefits would hit hand-to-mouth consumers hard. This has consequences for the whole economy.''
Consumer spending is especially critical right now, because many businesses have pulled back already, citing the fiscal impasse in Washington as a prime concern. Until recently, consumers have been more optimistic about the economy, although sentiment has eroded in recent weeks as anxiety increased about just what policy makers would do in terms of taxes and spending.
If it were not for the uncertainty in Washington and the fallout from the fiscal impasse, Mr. Reinhart said, the economy would be growing at an annual rate of 2 percent to 2.5 percent. Instead, he estimated growth in the fourth quarter of 2012 at just under 1 percent, and said he expected it to edge up only slightly to around 1 percent in the first half of 2013. Unemployment, now at 7.7 percent, is about 0.3 percentage point higher than it otherwise would be, he added.
To be sure, the impact from some other scheduled changes will not be felt right away -- and could still be reversed if a deal is completed in the coming weeks. For example, automatic spending cuts set to hit the Pentagon budget as well as nonmilitary programs are spread out between now and the end of the 2013 fiscal year in September, giving legislators time to change course and head off any major impact.
But the longer the standoff continues, the deeper the economic damage, experts said. ''Because the politicians couldn't get out of the way,'' Mr. Reinhart said, ''growth in the last quarter of 2012 and the first two quarters of 2013 will be below trend. There is a real cost of not coming to the table.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Shoppers in Atlanta. The confidence of consumers has eroded in the absence of a deal to avert a harsh budget package on Jan. 1. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID GOLDMAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); RECESSION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); BUDGETS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); HISTORY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



994 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTORS; Pg. 

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: A New Agenda for U.S.-Russia Cooperation

BYLINE: By MADELEINE ALBRIGHT and IGOR IVANOV

 BODY:
The recent experience of ''reset'' in Russian-American relations is remarkable in at least two ways. On the one hand, it demonstrated that, given the political commitment of both presidents, the two sides can accomplish a lot within a short time span. On the other hand, this experience confirmed that the relationship between our countries remains vulnerable to shifting political winds and passing policy differences, as we are currently witnessing.
The challenge we face at the beginning of 2013 is not to preserve reset, but to move beyond it. The time has come to turn the page and to address the realities of the 21st century. 
With President Obama re-elected and President Vladimir Putin solidly in charge in Moscow, now is time for both leaders to reinvigorate U.S.-Russian cooperation to the benefit of the two countries. They can also act together to strengthen global security in general and pave the way for a more stable and predictable world.
American and Russian interests converge on a number of significant and timely issues. As we have written together in the past, the two countries share a common objective in reducing the nuclear danger. The New Start Treaty was an important achievement, but more can be done, including accelerating implementation of the reductions required by the treaty (why wait until 2018 to have the limits take full effect?), and launching a new bilateral negotiation to further cut nuclear stockpiles.
Russia and the United States control 90 to 95 percent of the world's nuclear weapons. We can readily continue negotiations of further reductions and still safely ensure our security. If we do, we will be more persuasive when asking other nuclear-weapons states to join in the nuclear-arms reduction process and will enhance the credibility of our diplomacy in mobilizing international pressure on Iran to refrain from trying to build a nuclear weapon.
Next year will mark the 50th anniversary of the signing of the Limited Test Ban Treaty, the first nuclear arms control agreement. It would be an appropriate year for the U.S. Senate to consent to ratification of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, which has been languishing for 13 years. The United States could then join Russia among the countries that have ratified, thus bringing the treaty closer to entry into force.
The long-running dispute over missile defense continues to cast a shadow over possible progress on arms control, even though both NATO and Russia say they want to cooperate in that sphere. Now is the time to be creative. With some imagination on both sides, missile defense could prove a game-changer, making NATO and Russia allies in protecting Europe.
We have focused on arms control issues not just because of the important security implications for Russia and the United States. Progress on arms control can also help stimulate gains in the broader relationship, as has been demonstrated in the past.
Cooperation between Russia and the United states makes sense on a range of other issues.
For example, neither the United States nor Russia wants Afghanistan to revert to control by the Taliban or become a failed state. That is why Russia has been so helpful in facilitating the flow of supplies to U.S. and NATO forces in Afghanistan. As the end of major operations by coalition forces draws near, Washington and Moscow, together with others, should support Afghan leaders in constructing a stable society, able to withstand pressure from violent extremist groups.
Another area of mutual interest is promoting an expansion of U.S.-Russian trade and investment relations. The current level of bilateral commerce falls significantly short of its potential, given the size of the countries' economies. An increase would benefit both. Russia's recent entry into the World Trade Organization will help, as will full implementation of the important trade and market access provisions that made that agreement possible. The U.S. Congress decision to remove Cold War restrictions and finally extend permanent normal trade relations status to Russia was long overdue.
Obviously, cooperation on some issues does not mean that Moscow and Washington will see eye-to-eye on every question. Because we interact on so many issues, it is too much to expect agreement in every case. Differences of perspective can sometimes be sharp, as over Syria, human rights and democracy. Nevertheless, disagreements, no matter how complex and painful, must not block the development of ties along other lines. It is essential not to interrupt dialogue even on those issues where positions differ substantially.
The history of relations between Washington and Moscow teaches the importance of presidential engagement and leadership. If our countries are to derive the maximum benefit from our shared interests, Presidents Obama and Putin must make our potential for partnership a priority.
Some speculate that, with Mr. Putin's return to the Russian presidency, managing U.S.-Russian relations will become more difficult. We see no reason to assume that. The reset improved bilateral ties, which are certainly stronger today than they were in 2008; that progress would not have happened had Mr. Putin opposed it. The challenge for our two presidents is to move now to the next stage -- to embark on a historic mission to start a new chapter in bilateral relations between Russia and the United States.
Madeleine Albright served as U.S. secretary of state from 1997 to 2001. Igor Ivanov was Russia's foreign minister from 1998 to 2004.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); COMPREHENSIVE TEST BAN TREATY (71%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (71%); ANNIVERSARIES (50%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



995 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Ratings at a Price for Smaller Universities

BYLINE: By D.D. GUTTENPLAN

 BODY:
LONDON -- For a certain kind of European, Asian or Latin American institution, the release of the world university rankings each autumn is an exercise in humiliation. Though often long established, and with good local reputations, these schools lack the endowments, research facilities and sheer size needed to compete with U.S. and British powerhouses like Harvard, M.I.T., Cambridge and Stanford.
So when Quacquarelli Symonds, the London-based company behind the QS World University Rankings, announced ''a new initiative that gives universities the opportunity to highlight their strength'' by paying a fee for the chance to be rated on a scale of one to five stars, the business case was obvious. But so, say critics, was the potential for conflicts of interest. The fees were announced in 2010, though the initiative was not introduced fully until this year.
The University of Limerick in Ireland did not make two other major international rankings -- Times Higher Education's top 400 or Shanghai Jiaotong University's top 500 -- though it was listed as one of T.H.E.'s top 100 new universities. 
Yet after paying a one-time audit fee of $9,850 and an annual license fee of $6,850, the University of Limerick is now able to boast that it has been awarded ''5-star ratings across the areas of infrastructure, teaching, engagement and internationalization,'' according to QS. Its overall ranking was four stars.
University College Cork, which came in 190th in the QS rankings, received an overall rating of five stars, placing it among an international elite that, according to QS, offers students ''cutting edge facilities and internationally renowned research and teaching faculty.'' In comparison, it was placed in the 301-400 band in the Shanghai Jiaotong rankings and in the 301-350 band in the T.H.E. rankings.
For both Irish universities, the QS exercise paid off handsomely. An official at University College Cork told The Irish Examiner newspaper that if the QS stars ''result in attracting a single additional, full-time international student to study at U.C.C. then the costs of participation are covered.''
''The question is: Are you buying stars?'' Ellen Hazelkorn, director of research at the Dublin Institute of Technology and the author of ''Rankings and the Reshaping of Higher Education,'' said by telephone. ''They can say to institutions further down in the rankings, 'You might be able to get yourself a four- or five-star rating,' which would look a lot better on their Web site.''
Philip Altbach, director of the Center for International Education at Boston College, has long been a critic of rankings. ''What they measure is a very narrow slice of what education is about,'' he said by telephone.
He has written articles objecting to the use of surveys based on reputation, which he says are ''of dubious validity,'' and which make up half of the QS ranking scores. But he described the star ratings as particularly problematic.
''QS use rankings to sell their other products,'' he said. These products include a World M.B.A. tour and a service providing strategic advice to business schools, universities and employers.
''By asking universities to respond to surveys for rankings and then asking them to pay for a star rating -- I'm not accusing them of pay-for-play. I don't have any evidence that is happening. But the appearance of conflict is there,'' Dr. Altbach said.
Ben Sowter, head of the QS Intelligence Unit, which oversees both the ratings and the rankings, said that there was no favoritism in QS's system. ''Just because accreditation agencies charge the universities, that doesn't mean they are biased,'' he said.
''We don't do anything else but higher education,'' Mr. Sowter said. ''So any evidence that anything untoward was going on would be disastrous to our business.''
He said that fees did not have any influence on the ratings awarded. ''If people were buying stars we wouldn't have so many zero-, one- and two-star institutions that have been through the process,'' he said. Of the 106 schools that have been rated so far, more than half have been awarded two stars or fewer, he said.
''In a world where Harvard is five stars, why wouldn't you want to be seen as a three-star school?'' he added. ''Plenty of people are happy to stay in three-star hotels.''
Harvard, Cambridge and a handful of other elite universities are awarded five-star ratings without having to pay fees or furnish data, according to QS, which said that those schools were included to help calibrate the ratings.
In the rough-and-tumble world of academic reputations, the QS rankings have long been among the more influential. They started in 2004, a year after officials at Shanghai Jiaotong University published the first global university league table, and 21 years after the magazine U.S. News and World Report published its first guide to ''America's Best Colleges.'' Today the QS list of the ''top 700 universities'' in the world is read by millions of prospective students, parents, academics and university administrators. Although the two groups are now rivals, until 2009 QS and the Times Higher Education magazine put out a joint ranking.
Both the British newspaper The Guardian and the U.S. News Web site are media partners for the QS global rankings. QS's influence can also be felt at the highest levels of policy. Experts say that some governments will not fund students who wish to study overseas at universities not on the list -- sometimes those not in the top 100.
In an attempt to work their way up the ladder, other countries have engaged in programs of consolidation, forcing smaller schools to group together in an effort to emulate the large U.S. and British research universities that repeatedly dominate the top tier. Some universities rely on rankings to determine whether potential collaborators on research projects or student exchange programs are worthy partners.
Andrew Oswald, an economist at the University of Warwick in Britain, said that those who made decisions on the basis of rankings were deceiving themselves. ''Rankings are all backward looking. So they are swallowing outdated medicine,'' he said by telephone. ''But as an academic I view the QS as the least reliable -- partly because they are the most commercial and partly because they rely more heavily on survey data than the others.''
Simon Marginson, from the University of Melbourne's Center for the Study of Higher Education, wrote in September in University World News, an online journal, that QS's methodology ''is not sufficiently robust to provide data valid as social science.'' In an e-mail, Dr. Marginson charged that QS ''have twice threatened legal action to intimidate news outlets'' that have carried his criticisms of the company.
Mr. Sowter denied that the dispute had reached that stage. ''We had a little bit of an altercation,'' he said, regarding an article by Dr. Marginson in the newspaper The Australian. ''The paper gave us a chance to see it beforehand and there were some unfounded allegations, which we disputed and were removed. There was no threat -- just a first shot across the bows.''
''The academy likes to focus on the fact that we are a commercial enterprise,'' Mr. Sowter said. He added that T.H.E. was published by a media company and that Shanghai Jiaotong included itself in its own rankings.
Dr. Hazelkorn said that the controversy over ratings might ultimately be a distraction.
''You have to ask yourself, Why are all the institutions so caught up in this?'' she said. ''For a country like Ireland, where education and establishing an international presence are hugely important to economic recovery, not being ranked makes you invisible.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RANKINGS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (69%); WRITERS (61%); WEB SITES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (90%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) CHINA (90%); IRELAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



996 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; LETTER FROM WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Lessons From the 2012 U.S. Election

BYLINE: By ALBERT R. HUNT | BLOOMBERG NEWS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The 2012 U.S. elections, though not seminal, revealed much about the nature and direction of U.S. politics.
A divided government may be ingrained: At the presidential level, Democrats start with a decided advantage. Changing demographics -- more Hispanics and other minorities solidly behind the party; women and young voters moving that way and forming hard-to-break voting habits -- cut the Democrats' way.
The electoral map that decides U.S. presidential contests tilts Democratic. President Barack Obama won the national popular vote by 3.7 percentage points, and carried the electoral map -- the number of electors from each state is based indirectly on population -- 332 to 206. If you took 1.9 percentage points from Mr. Obama and added them to Mitt Romney's tally, the Republican would have won the popular vote by more than 125,000 votes. Yet if that formula were then applied to every state in the country, the only ones that would change would be Florida and Ohio. Mr. Obama would have lost the popular vote but would still have won the Electoral College vote, 285 to 253, and thus the presidency. 
This is why some states that are reliably Democratic at the presidential level and where Republicans now control the statehouses are trying to change the Electoral College system. Each state controls its own rules. Only two, Maine and Nebraska, award electors by congressional district; everywhere else, it's winner-takes-all.
Republicans are pondering a shift to the approach used in Maine and Nebraska. They see a possible test case in Pennsylvania, where Mr. Obama won the popular vote by more than five percentage points, rolling up huge margins in Philadelphia and its suburbs and in Pittsburgh. Mr. Romney, however, carried 13 of the 18 congressional districts. If this new system were in effect, the Republicans would have gotten 13 of the state's 20 electoral votes while getting trounced in the popular vote. If this occurred in mainly Republican states, it would erase the Democrats' Electoral College advantage.
In elections for the House of Representatives, Republicans already have a structural advantage. Democratic voters, especially minorities, tend to be bunched into a relatively small number of districts.
''The high-density Democratic population makes it more difficult for Democrats to create more competitive districts,'' said Nathan Gonzales, congressional analyst for the Rothenberg Political Report, a nonpartisan newsletter on U.S. politics.
It's this bunching, more than any redistricting edge, that enabled Republicans to retain a lead of 234 seats to 201 in the House of Representatives this year even though Democrats received a million more votes over all in House races. There is little to suggest this advantage will lessen in the years ahead.
Conventions matter more than debates: The news media treat the national political conventions as irrelevant dinosaurs; the presidential debates are depicted as the Super Bowl or World Cup of politics.
It didn't work out that way this year. The conventions mattered more. Mr. Romney and the Republicans blew a chance at the convention in Tampa, Florida, to reset his candidacy. At their convention in Charlotte, North Carolina, the Democrats stepped up to the challenge, especially with a powerful speech by former President Bill Clinton that set the basis for more positive public attitudes about the U.S. economy.
Mr. Obama's disastrous performance in his first debate with Mr. Romney certainly mattered, though the duration of the Republican nominee's bounce was exaggerated. Before that debate, the president was about four points ahead nationally; that was close to his final margin.
Moving to the center is tough in the media age: Richard M. Nixon advised Republicans to run to the right in the primaries and to quickly move to the center in the general election. This formula worked as recently as 1980 for Ronald Reagan. For Democrats, the formula is to run to the left in the primaries and to move to the center in the general election.
This is much harder to do today with the omnipresent news media tracking and assembling every public pronouncement and policy change. Mr. Romney tried to pivot after the primaries; there is little evidence that it worked well. He couldn't escape earlier assertions that had alienated Hispanics (calling for undocumented workers to choose self-deportation) or women (boasting that he would end U.S. government funding for Planned Parenthood).
There are polls -- and polls: Polls done on the cheap, automatic phone calls, some online surveys and partisan polls all missed the mark. More professional polls, with telephone interviews, conducted for the news media and other sources, were accurate in most instances.
Campaigns matter: Improving attitudes about the economy and, to a small degree, the president's response to Hurricane Sandy, moved the needle in the closing weeks. Mr. Obama was indisputably a better political candidate.
The contrasting campaigns widened the margin. Post-election forums at Harvard University and the University of Pennsylvania, and the campaign e-book ''The End of the Line,'' by Jonathan Martin and Glenn Thrush of the Web site Politico, illustrated the Obama campaign's supremacy on tactics: polling, the use of digital and social media, advertising, identifying voters and getting them to the polls.
The biggest advantage was overarching, strategic. ''We knew who our guy was and where the country was,'' said Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Obama's deputy campaign manager. ''They didn't seem to have a sense of either.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); POLITICS (90%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (77%); REDISTRICTING (76%); US REPUBLICAN NATIONAL CONVENTIONS (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); MITT ROMNEY (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (68%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



997 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; CONGRESSIONAL MEMO; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: A Showdown Long Foreseen

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The titanic struggle over how to reach a broad Congressional tax agreement is not just the latest partisan showdown, but rather the culmination of two years of escalating fiscal confrontations, each building on the other in its gravity and consequences. On Sunday, lawmakers could not seem to find one final way out.
From the first fight over a short-term spending agreement to keep the government open in early 2011 to the later tangle over the debt ceiling to the failure of last year's special budget committee and the resulting automatic spending cuts that now loom along with tax increases, the so-called fiscal cliff was built, slab by partisan slab, to where it now threatens the nation's finances. 
''Something has gone terribly wrong,'' said Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, ''when the biggest threat to our American economy is the American Congress.''
Years of increased spending on everything from wars to expanded entitlement programs -- combined with protracted, stubborn unemployment and a nation of workers whose earning power and home values have plummeted in recent years -- have persuaded lawmakers in both parties that fiscal policy is the most pressing domestic concern.
But a fundamental ideological chasm between the majority of lawmakers and an empowered group of Congressional Republicans -- fueled by some Tea Party victories in both chambers in 2010 -- has made it more difficult than ever to reach fiscal and budgetary compromises.
Each fight has left Democrats and Republicans both more distrustful and wary of working together, each in search of a voter mandate to push its vision to the fore. In some ways, that dynamic has come full circle.
In 2011, right after their big midterm victory, Republicans were able to push Democrats out of their comfort zone on spending, using short-term measures to keep the government open and the debt ceiling as weapons against the Obama administration. After the 2012 election, Democrats are using that same strategy to tear Republicans from their orthodoxy on taxes, and the Republicans' pain is evident.
''Hats off to the president -- he won,'' Senator Lindsey Graham, Republican of South Carolina, said ruefully on Sunday.
As a result, members of both parties have became increasingly addicted to short-term solutions to long-term problems, cobbling together two- and three-month bills and short-term extensions to fight over again and again until the string has run out on many major pressing issues.
Also, a change in the way this Congress does business -- the elimination of home-state earmarks that once greased so many Congressional deals -- and the escalating use of the Senate filibuster to prevent debate on even routine legislation have further hamstrung lawmakers in their efforts to get anything done.
With less than 48 hours to go before substantial tax hikes and large spending cuts affected nearly every aspect of American life, the 112th Congress was lurching toward its operatic end in a state of legislative dysfunction, ideological asymmetry and borderline chaos.
''This is one of the lowest points of the U.S. Senate,'' Senator Barbara A. Mikulski, Democrat of Maryland, remarked as she ticked off what she said were other nadirs in a long Senate career, including the impeachment of President Bill Clinton. ''This is what we're doing to ourselves.''
A Sunday session on the eve of New Year's Eve was marked by confusion, acrimony and a fair amount of sitting around waiting for things that never happened.
On the Senate side, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, took to the floor at midday to proclaim the talks all but finished, shocking even some Democrats. Later he said, well, maybe they were not. Mr. Reid said he had made a counteroffer to the most recent one offered by his Republican counterpart, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. Then his aides said he had been sort of joking.
Mr. McConnell, seeking a lifeline, or at least perhaps a sympathetic ear, turned to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr., his old Senate friend, almost like one brother calling another to ask how to deal with the awful family fight brewing back home. Mr. Biden and Mr. McConnell have worked together for decades in the Senate and two years ago were able to cut the last major tax deal.
At some point within the pandemonium, members of Congress started talking, almost inexplicably, about the stalled farm bill. It is one of the many measures -- once relatively noncontroversial and typically passed with bipartisan glee -- that have expired and that Congress has been unable to renew, and the sudden attention to it seemed incongruous given the crisis atmosphere.
Bending to the wishes of Speaker John A. Boehner, House members returned to the Capitol on Sunday night, ostensibly to hear about a Senate deal. But since one had not materialized, they instead contented themselves by voting on subjects like the dignified burial of veterans, and by snacking on pizza.
Representative Bill Huizenga of Michigan, a freshman Republican who has enjoyed the highs of his party's hard-fought victories and remains in defiance of Democrats even as that dominance has crumbled, found himself on Sunday in a place he has come to know well -- the middle of an impasse.
''I feel like I'm trapped in 'Groundhog Day,' '' Mr. Huizenga said.
And in a way he was, as he and his colleagues found themselves yet again on the brink of a fiscal crisis, this one magnified by all the others before it.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: ''It looks awful,'' Senator Richard J. Durbin of Illinois, the second-ranking Democrat, said after tense negotiations on Sunday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY T. J. KIRKPATRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILIBUSTER (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DEBT CEILING (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); POLITICS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); LEGISLATION (72%)

PERSON: RICHARD DURBIN (59%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (58%); JOE MANCHIN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



998 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; MEXICO CITY JOURNAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: A Factory on Bicycle Wheels, Carrying Hope of a Better Life

BYLINE: By DAMIEN CAVE

 BODY:
MEXICO CITY -- The sound of a surprising opportunity rose above the tumult of traffic. ''Factory for electronic textiles offering work,'' came the message, shouted from a megaphone that sat in the basket of a white bicycle pedaled by Amor Muñoz, an artist in a black jumpsuit. ''One hundred pesos an hour!''
Even on the streets of this busy capital, where sales pitches flow from speakers attached to anything with wheels, the offer stood out. Work? For about $7.50 an hour, a little above the American minimum wage? 
The rush was on. By the time Ms. Muñoz parked in her usual spot outside a hospital in one of Mexico City's peripheral neighborhoods, a line had already formed. Women of all ages squeezed together -- one held a baby, another was nearly too old to walk -- as Ms. Muñoz opened up a white wooden box revealing thread, needles, cloth, timecards and employment contracts. The work involved creating interactive art pieces that combine the old craft of sewing with 20th-century electronics and 21st-century tags allowing smartphone users to look up who worked on a given piece.
''It's about community,'' Ms. Muñoz said. ''I'm interested in sharing the experience of art.''
If that were her only interest, it would be enough to make alpha geeks swoon; a local glossy magazine and the technology Web site Ars Technica recently honored Ms. Muñoz with their annual awards. But behind her vintage glasses and dimpled smile, Ms. Muñoz has a sharper message.
Her maquiladora, or factory, she said, is a ''fantasy'' meant to condemn the harsh reality of a global economy that uses and discards poor workers, especially women, to keep prices low.
In Mexico these days the project amounts to artistic subversion. At a time when the country's new president, Enrique Peña Nieto, is trying to recast Mexico as an economic marvel, with growth rates surpassing Brazil, Ms. Muñoz's factory is a countervailing force -- a mobile reality check highlighting Mexico's darker economic truths.
Take wages. The minimum wage in Mexico is about 60 cents an hour, and while the average pay in manufacturing has grown over the past decade, it is still only about $3.50 an hour, according to government statistics. Even according to higher estimates by the Bureau of Labor Statistics in Washington, Mexico's hourly compensation costs are still only two-thirds of those found in Brazil, where the benefits of economic growth have helped a larger share of workers rise from poverty.
Economists recognize the problem. ''We need to increase wages to become a true modern country,'' said Luis de la Calle, a former Mexican government official who helped negotiate the North American Free Trade Agreement. But as Mexico tries to improve its image and gloss over its violent drug war, government officials have mostly described Mexico's low wages in positive terms, as a way to compete with China. The market, it is generally assumed, will eventually drive up wages.
Ms. Muñoz is unwilling to wait. She described Mexican wages as an insult to human dignity, and every time her mobile factory appears, the power of work for reasonable pay goes on display. The crowds that gather are typically large. Sometimes people push and shove for two hours of work and $15, though once the day's employees are selected (first come first hired), a calm tends to follow.
Earlier this month, the team included nearly a dozen women and one young man, all that Ms. Muñoz could afford. Many, like Sara Peregrino, 50, were homemakers with sewing experience. Others, like David Quiróz, 18, a taxi dispatcher, struggled to thread a needle without drawing blood.
Nearly everyone said the money they earned would go to one of two things -- food or Christmas presents. ''For women, it's very hard to find a good job,'' said Patricia Zamora, 33, a mother of two who arrived with Ms. Peregrino, one of her neighbors. ''There is a lot of work for not much pay.''
Many of the women seemed to appreciate a chance to be involved in an art project. María González, 75, smiled widely when handed a needle and adjusted her purple scarf, excited to be creating something rather than worrying about her husband in the hospital. ''This,'' she said, sewing without looking down, ''is a wonderful distraction.''
Ms. Muñoz seemed to agree. She stood nearby, waiting for her favorite time of day -- when she paid the workers and took their photographs, which she would post online, linked to the artwork. It is an effort to make the workers more visible, she said, but also hints at her working-class past.
She grew up playing among the hammers and nails of the hardware store her parents owned in a marginal neighborhood like the one with her factory. She said she always appreciated manual labor and never felt comfortable in an office, even after receiving a law degree.
Textiles had once been a hobby -- she used to collect huipiles, the traditional woven tunics of Mexico and Central America -- but when she decided to become an artist in 2006, she returned to cloth and sewing. Her work now involves a mixture of textiles and technology. Many of her pieces involve sewn images with circuits that let users push buttons for sounds or displays of light.
Completed works from the mobile maquiladora project, for example, will create the whine of an ambulance siren.
Like many other young artists in the capital, she is trying to push Mexico forward by combining older traditions with the interactivity of social media and open-source software development. She dreams of finding financing for more mobile factories, and her lack of faith in government and industry is matched only by the optimism she expresses when discussing the power of networked youth.
''With technology, everything can be democratized,'' she said. ''It's fabulous.''
Still, the human interactions are what she values most, so when Ms. Peregrino suddenly appeared and presented her with a pink plastic bag after being paid, Ms. Muñoz was visibly touched. The two women hugged as Ms. Muñoz put the gift in into the bicycle basket with the megaphone. Only later did she look inside, finding a hand-sewn purple scarf that must have taken days to complete.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amor Muñoz with her mobile factory in mid-December. ''I'm interested in sharing the experience of art,'' Ms. Muñoz says. Plus, she pays her workers about $7.50 an hour. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GINNETTE RIQUELME FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEXTILES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MINIMUM WAGE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (79%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (73%); EMPLOYEE TIMEKEEPING (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); STATISTICS (66%); SMARTPHONES (66%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); GLOBALIZATION (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (63%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (62%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%)

PERSON: ENRIQUE PENA NIETO (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (93%) MEXICO (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



999 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1545 words

HEADLINE: Let's Give Up on the Constitution

BYLINE: By LOUIS MICHAEL SEIDMAN. 
Louis Michael Seidman, a professor of constitutional law at Georgetown University, is the author of the forthcoming book ''On Constitutional Disobedience.''

 BODY:
Washington
AS the nation teeters at the edge of fiscal chaos, observers are reaching the conclusion that the American system of government is broken. But almost no one blames the culprit: our insistence on obedience to the Constitution, with all its archaic, idiosyncratic and downright evil provisions.
Consider, for example, the assertion by the Senate minority leader last week that the House could not take up a plan by Senate Democrats to extend tax cuts on households making $250,000 or less because the Constitution requires that revenue measures originate in the lower chamber. Why should anyone care? Why should a lame-duck House, 27 members of which were defeated for re-election, have a stranglehold on our economy? Why does a grotesquely malapportioned Senate get to decide the nation's fate?
Our obsession with the Constitution has saddled us with a dysfunctional political system, kept us from debating the merits of divisive issues and inflamed our public discourse. Instead of arguing about what is to be done, we argue about what James Madison might have wanted done 225 years ago. 
As someone who has taught constitutional law for almost 40 years, I am ashamed it took me so long to see how bizarre all this is. Imagine that after careful study a government official -- say, the president or one of the party leaders in Congress -- reaches a considered judgment that a particular course of action is best for the country. Suddenly, someone bursts into the room with new information: a group of white propertied men who have been dead for two centuries, knew nothing of our present situation, acted illegally under existing law and thought it was fine to own slaves might have disagreed with this course of action. Is it even remotely rational that the official should change his or her mind because of this divination?
Constitutional disobedience may seem radical, but it is as old as the Republic. In fact, the Constitution itself was born of constitutional disobedience. When George Washington and the other framers went to Philadelphia in 1787, they were instructed to suggest amendments to the Articles of Confederation, which would have had to be ratified by the legislatures of all 13 states. Instead, in violation of their mandate, they abandoned the Articles, wrote a new Constitution and provided that it would take effect after ratification by only nine states, and by conventions in those states rather than the state legislatures.
No sooner was the Constitution in place than our leaders began ignoring it. John Adams supported the Alien and Sedition Acts, which violated the First Amendment's guarantee of freedom of speech. Thomas Jefferson thought every constitution should expire after a single generation. He believed the most consequential act of his presidency -- the purchase of the Louisiana Territory -- exceeded his constitutional powers.
Before the Civil War, abolitionists like Wendell Phillips and William Lloyd Garrison conceded that the Constitution protected slavery, but denounced it as a pact with the devil that should be ignored. When Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation -- 150 years ago tomorrow -- he justified it as a military necessity under his power as commander in chief. Eventually, though, he embraced the freeing of slaves as a central war aim, though nearly everyone conceded that the federal government lacked the constitutional power to disrupt slavery where it already existed. Moreover, when the law finally caught up with the facts on the ground through passage of the 13th Amendment, ratification was achieved in a manner at odds with constitutional requirements. (The Southern states were denied representation in Congress on the theory that they had left the Union, yet their reconstructed legislatures later provided the crucial votes to ratify the amendment.)
In his Constitution Day speech in 1937, Franklin D. Roosevelt professed devotion to the document, but as a statement of aspirations rather than obligations. This reading no doubt contributed to his willingness to extend federal power beyond anything the framers imagined, and to threaten the Supreme Court when it stood in the way of his New Deal legislation. In 1954, when the court decided Brown v. Board of Education, Justice Robert H. Jackson said he was voting for it as a moral and political necessity although he thought it had no basis in the Constitution. The list goes on and on.
The fact that dissenting justices regularly, publicly and vociferously assert that their colleagues have ignored the Constitution -- in landmark cases from Miranda v. Arizona to Roe v. Wade to Romer v. Evans to Bush v. Gore -- should give us pause. The two main rival interpretive methods, ''originalism'' (divining the framers' intent) and ''living constitutionalism'' (reinterpreting the text in light of modern demands), cannot be reconciled. Some decisions have been grounded in one school of thought, and some in the other. Whichever your philosophy, many of the results -- by definition -- must be wrong.
IN the face of this long history of disobedience, it is hard to take seriously the claim by the Constitution's defenders that we would be reduced to a Hobbesian state of nature if we asserted our freedom from this ancient text. Our sometimes flagrant disregard of the Constitution has not produced chaos or totalitarianism; on the contrary, it has helped us to grow and prosper.
This is not to say that we should disobey all constitutional commands. Freedom of speech and religion, equal protection of the laws and protections against governmental deprivation of life, liberty or property are important, whether or not they are in the Constitution. We should continue to follow those requirements out of respect, not obligation.
Nor should we have a debate about, for instance, how long the president's term should last or whether Congress should consist of two houses. Some matters are better left settled, even if not in exactly the way we favor. Nor, finally, should we have an all-powerful president free to do whatever he wants. Even without constitutional fealty, the president would still be checked by Congress and by the states. There is even something to be said for an elite body like the Supreme Court with the power to impose its views of political morality on the country.
What would change is not the existence of these institutions, but the basis on which they claim legitimacy. The president would have to justify military action against Iran solely on the merits, without shutting down the debate with a claim of unchallengeable constitutional power as commander in chief. Congress might well retain the power of the purse, but this power would have to be defended on contemporary policy grounds, not abstruse constitutional doctrine. The Supreme Court could stop pretending that its decisions protecting same-sex intimacy or limiting affirmative action were rooted in constitutional text.
The deep-seated fear that such disobedience would unravel our social fabric is mere superstition. As we have seen, the country has successfully survived numerous examples of constitutional infidelity. And as we see now, the failure of the Congress and the White House to agree has already destabilized the country. Countries like Britain and New Zealand have systems of parliamentary supremacy and no written constitution, but are held together by longstanding traditions, accepted modes of procedure and engaged citizens. We, too, could draw on these resources.
What has preserved our political stability is not a poetic piece of parchment, but entrenched institutions and habits of thought and, most important, the sense that we are one nation and must work out our differences. No one can predict in detail what our system of government would look like if we freed ourselves from the shackles of constitutional obligation, and I harbor no illusions that any of this will happen soon. But even if we can't kick our constitutional-law addiction, we can soften the habit.
If we acknowledged what should be obvious -- that much constitutional language is broad enough to encompass an almost infinitely wide range of positions -- we might have a very different attitude about the obligation to obey. It would become apparent that people who disagree with us about the Constitution are not violating a sacred text or our core commitments. Instead, we are all invoking a common vocabulary to express aspirations that, at the broadest level, everyone can embrace. Of course, that does not mean that people agree at the ground level. If we are not to abandon constitutionalism entirely, then we might at least understand it as a place for discussion, a demand that we make a good-faith effort to understand the views of others, rather than as a tool to force others to give up their moral and political judgments.
If even this change is impossible, perhaps the dream of a country ruled by ''We the people'' is impossibly utopian. If so, we have to give up on the claim that we are a self-governing people who can settle our disagreements through mature and tolerant debate. But before abandoning our heritage of self-government, we ought to try extricating ourselves from constitutional bondage so that we can give real freedom a chance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); TAX LAW (71%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012



1000 of 1012 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2012 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: December 31, 2012
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Deal Expected On Past Abuses In Home Loans

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG

 BODY:
Banking regulators are close to a $10 billion settlement with 14 banks that would end the government's efforts to hold lenders responsible for foreclosure abuses like faulty paperwork and excessive fees that may have led to evictions, according to people with knowledge of the discussions.
Under the settlement, a significant amount of the money, $3.75 billion, would go to people who have already lost their homes, making it potentially more generous to former homeowners than a broad-reaching pact in February between state attorneys general and five large banks. That set aside $1.5 billion in cash relief for Americans. 
Most of the relief in both agreements is meant for people who are struggling to stay in their homes and need the banks to reduce their payments or lower the amount of principal they owe.
The $10 billion pact would be the latest in a series of settlements that regulators and law enforcement officials have reached with banks to hold them accountable for their role in the 2008 financial crisis that sent the housing market into the deepest slump since the Great Depression. As of early 2012, four million Americans had been foreclosed upon since the beginning of 2007, and a huge amount of abandoned homes swamped many states, including California, Florida and Arizona.
Federal agencies like the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department are continuing to pursue the banks for their packaging and sale of troubled mortgage securities that imploded during the financial crisis.
Housing advocates were largely unaware of the latest rounds of secret talks, which have been occurring for roughly a month. But some have criticized the government for not dealing more harshly with bankers in light of their lax standards for making loans and packaging them as investments, as well as their problems with modifying troubled loans and processing foreclosures.
A deal could be reached by the end of the week between the 14 banks and the nation's top banking regulators, led by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, four people with knowledge of the negotiations said. It was unclear how many current and former homeowners would receive money or when it would be distributed.
Told on Sunday night of the imminent settlement, Lynn Drysdale, a lawyer at Jacksonville Area Legal Aid and a former co-chairwoman of the National Association of Consumer Advocates, said: ''It's certainly a victory for consumers and could help entire neighborhoods. But the devil, as they say, is in the details, and for those people who have had to totally uproot their lives because of eviction it may still not be enough.''
In recent weeks within the upper echelons of the comptroller's office, pressure was mounting to negotiate a banner settlement with the banks, according to people with knowledge of the matter. The reason was that some within the agency had started to realize that a mandatory review of millions of bank loans was not yielding meaningful examples of the banks' wrongfully evicting homeowners who were current on their payments or making partial payments, according to the people.
Representative of banking regulators did not return calls for comment on Sunday.
The biggest action against the banks for foreclosure-related abuses has been the $26 billion settlement between the five largest mortgage servicers and the state attorneys general, Justice Department and the Department of Housing and Urban Development after allegations arose in 2010 that bank employees were churning daily through hundreds of documents used in foreclosure proceedings without properly reviewing them for accuracy.
The same banks in that settlement -- JPMorgan Chase, Bank of America, Wells Fargo, Citigroup and Ally Financial -- are included in the current negotiations.
Under the terms of the settlement being negotiated, $6 billion would come from banks to be used for relief for homeowners, including reducing their principal, helping them refinance and donating abandoned homes, the people said.
The proposed settlement would also halt a separate sweeping review of more than four million loan files that the comptroller's office and the Federal Reserve required the banks undertake as part of a consent order in April 2011.
Under the terms of the order, the 14 banks had to hire independent consultants to pore through the loan records to determine whether the banks illegally charged fees, forced homeowners to take out costly insurance or miscalculated loan payment amounts. Consultants initially estimated that each loan would take about eight hours, at a cost of up to $250 an hour, to go through.
The costs of the reviews have ballooned, though, according to people with knowledge of the reviews, in part because each loan file is taking up to 20 hours to review. Since its inception, the reviews have cost the banks about $1.5 billion, according to those people.
Pressure to reach a settlement with the banks has been building, particularly within the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, amid widespread frustration that the banks' mandatory review of loan files was arduous and expensive, and would not yield promised relief to homeowners, according to five former and current banking regulators.
In private meetings with top bank executives, these people said, regulators have admitted that the reviews had gone awry. At one point this month, an official from the comptroller's office said the agency had ''miscalculated'' the scope and requirements of the reviews, according to the people with knowledge of the negotiations.
When the settlement discussions heated up this month, some banking executives said they felt they would be vindicated by the regulators. These executives said that they had raised objections to the reviews early on, but those concerns were largely dismissed by regulatory officials, according to the people with knowledge of the negotiations.
Instead, officials from the comptroller's office, these people said, have used the loan reviews as a negotiating tool, telling banks that they can either sign on to a large settlement or be forced to pay billions over several more years until the consultants finish the reviews.
When regulators approached the banks to broach a settlement this month, they met first with Wells Fargo and proposed that the banks pay $15 billion, according to the people familiar with the discussions. After negotiations, though, the regulators agreed to $10 billion.
All of the 14 banks are expected to sign on.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Los Angeles police guarding a Wells Fargo office, one of the banks in the negotiations. (PHOTOGRAPH BY KEVORK DJANSEZIAN/GETTY IMAGES) (B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); EVICTION (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); LAWYERS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); HOUSING MARKET (76%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); LEGAL AID (70%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (68%); GREAT DEPRESSION (67%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); JACKSONVILLE, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: December 31, 2012

 
